Z _IV            dS/S - 14'1)
Do_mmt of
The World Bank
FO    M o CaL USE ONlY
Rbpt No. P-6444-MD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
NOVEMBER 15, 1994
Thi document has a rstricted distibution and may be ued by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents way not odtwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(November 1994)
US$ 1.00 = Lei 4.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
METRIC EOUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                  =         3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)        =         10.76 square feet
1 Idlometer (Ian)            =         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq.km)   =         0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCFF                   Contingency and Compensatory Fmancing Facilitv
CIFCE                  Chisinau Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange
CIS                    Commonwealth of Independent State
CPAR                   Country Procurement Assessment Review
FSU                    Former Soviet Union
EU                     European Union
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
NFN                    Most Favored Nation
NBN                    National Bank of Moldova
NMP                    Net Material Product
PSD                    Private Sector Development
STF                    Systemic Transformation Facility
USAJI)                 United States Agency for International Developmeat



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Moldova
Amount:                   US$60 nillion
Terms:                    Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest rate
Objectives and Description:  T'he proposed two-tranched loan would provide fast-disbursing balance
of payments assistance for the Government in the implementation of
its structural adjustment program. Disbursements would be designed
so as to provide non-inflationary budget fnacing. The program
supported by the Loan comprises a set of key measures needed to
induce a quick response in the real economy to macroeconomic
tightening and sharp relative price movements. The program is thus
designed to produce the reallocation of resources needed to promote a
recovery in sustainable export-led growth, while providing for the
most vulnerable groups. The main foci of the program are:
privatization; hardening the budget constraint on enterprises; creating
a competitive environment; and better targeting of social benefits
within fiscal constraints.
The programn supported by the loan is also intended as a catalyst for
balance of payments support and provision of technical assistance by
other donors. Such support would be sought in the framework of a
Consultative Group meeting on Moldova.
Poverty cateaory:         Poverty-focused. The loan would support improved targeting of the
social safety net through a reorientation of public expenditures towards
minimum benefits for pensioners and other beneficiaries without other
income from employment; a freeze on earnings-related and mmnimum-
wage related benefit entitlements; and Government provision of
severance pay and unemployment benefit for unemployed workers in
bankrupt or liquidated enterprises.
Benefits:                 The proposed operation would support the development of a
competitive private market-based economy that promotes the efficient
allocation of resources for economic growth and improvement in
living standards. Such a response is essential in order to reverse the
output decline and induce structural change.
TMis document has a rbcted distniton and may be ucd by recipients *y in the   d atbot
offi   duies. Its contens may not otheise be disclosed wiot World Book autboriatoiL



The main risks attached to the program are (i) potenztial divisions
within the Government and Parliament on the speed and depth of
politically sensitive reforms (the Government has a track record on
reform and now also has a majority in the Parliament; however, the
deepening of the refonn process may revive this risk); (ii) the
disjunction jetween progress on stabilization and the delay in the
restoration of growth (this risk wil be addressed through the loan
program); (iii) capacity within the admiistion may not be
reinforced quickly enough to petmit timdly implementation of the
program (technical assistance is being mobilized agaimst this risk); (iv)
sufficient balance of payments support may not be forthcoming to
sustain the program, forcing a lower level of imnwjrts, aggravating the
fall in output and living standards, and risking a return to inflation
(further assistance will be sought from the international community to
reduce this risk); and (v) continued protectonism especially in
Western Europe and/or delayed recovery in the rest of the FSU could
constrain Moldova's export-led recovery and the restoration of its
creditworthiness.
This report is based on the findigs of preparation and apprsal mimions which visited Moldova
between April and Setembr 1994, comprising Messrs./Mmes. Helen Sutch (senior country
economist, mision leader), Gregory Jedrzejczak (PSD specit), Staney Johnson (consultant
agricultural specialist), Vladimir Kreacic (senior enteprise reform specialist), Deborah Mabbett
(social sector and labor market consultant), Jo Ann Paulson (senior financial economist), Onno Ruhl
(coury officer), Theodor Stolojan prvoizaton specialist), and Jonathan Walters (country
economist). Brian Beman Csaba Csald and Philip Golkman provided support in Washingon and
participated in negotiations. Tamara Kanteman provided secretarui support. Documents were
reviewed by Alan Gelb and Shahid Yusuf. Basil Kavalsky and Wafik Grais are, respectively, the
Director of dte Country Deparm, and Division Cbief of the Country Operations Division,
responsible for Moldova in the Europe and Central Asia region.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOM[MENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED S7?2UCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT AND POLICIES ...........................   I
I. THE RECENT PAST AND PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE  . .
A. Background: A Fledgling New Order               .I
B. Stabilization: Successful but Fragile .3
C. Experience with Structural Adjustment.                               4
D. The Road Ahead                         .5
E. External Financing, Debt and Creditwonhiness.                        7
II.    HOW TO ACHIEVE ECONOMIC GROWTH BASED ON THE MARKET ...  8
A. Strengfhening the Macroeconomic Framework ....................   8
B. Ownership Change ..........        ...........................   8
C. Hardening the Budget Constraint .............................  10
D. Creaing a Competitive Environment .........................  14
E. Providing Social Protection within Fiscal Constraints ......  I   .........  16
F. Achieving a Supply Response: Complementary Measures ....  ......... 18
PART II. BANK STRATEGY AND THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
LOAN ..........................                  ....................  18
A. Support from the World Bank, IME, and Other Agencies: the Record So
Far .    ...........................................  18
B. Bank Strategy ............       ............................  19
C. Program Implementation and Proposed Tranche Conditions .... ........ 20
D. The Financing Package ..................................  23
E. Benefits and Risks ..........      ...........................  25
PART M. RECOMMdENDATION .26
Amnex I      Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Table 3: Balance of Payments
Annex 2      Leter of Development Policy
Annex 3      Policy Matrix



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF T3E PRESIDENr
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUMVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Moldova for the equivalent of US $60 million to provide support for the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program. The loan would be at the Bank's standrd variable
interest rate, with a maturity of 20 years including a grace period of five years. Co-financing or
parallel financing for quick-disbursing balance of payments assistance is being sought, and financing
for technical assistance to support a number of measures in the Goverunent's reform program has
been obtained or is being sought from various donors.
2.    The Republic of Moldova joined the IBRD on August 12, 1992, MIGA on June 9, 1993, and
IDA on June 14, 1994. It is in the process of joining IFC. The country's per capita GNP is
estimated at $1,180 in 1993, placing it in Operational Category II.
3.    Moldova is at a critical point in its adjustment. Now that inflation has been sharply reduced
and the exchange rate is stable, the country needs to ensure that available resources are channelled to
the highest yielding activities in order to support a sustainable recovery of output. Only rapid and
determined implementation of structural reforms will permit such an outcome and avoid furiher
declines in incomes as well as the unraveling of the stabilization obtained at high cost. Support for a
large advance in structural reforms is the objective of the Strucural Adjustment Loan (SAL).
PART }. COUNTRY CONTEXT AND POLICIES
i. T1E RECENT PAST AND PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE
A. Backgrowmd: A Fledging New Order
4.    A recently indeendent country. Moldova is a landlocked country situated between Romania
and Ukraine. It became independent on August 27, 1991, as the Soviet Union disintegrated. With a
population of 4.3 million and a land area of 33,700 square kilometers, Moldova is the most densely
populated country of the former Soviet Union.
5.    Progress in achievina political identit and stability. The path to Independence unleashed
intense conflict in which ethnic factors combined with differences in approach to economic reform
and restucturing. The armed conflict, which ended in a cease fire in July 1992, resulted in the de
j.do partition of the country, with the Transnistria region remaining under separate control.
Negotiations are taking place with the aim of finding a constittional soludon. A new Government
took charge after Parliamentary elections in February 1994. The parliament adopted a new
constitution on Juty 27, 1994, which establishes a framework for recognizing differences and provides
democratic mechanisms for resolving conflicts. Lately an initial agreement was reached with Russia
on the witdrawal of its 14th Army over a three-year period. These developments combine to reduce
the risk of renewed conflict over the status of Transnistria.



2
6.    Since the breakup of the former Soviet Union (FSU), Moldova has found itself on shifting
ground as it tries to find a new basis for its links with FSU countries while aeso seeling to expand
relations with countries to the west. In a referendum in March 1994, the population decisively
affirmed the country's independence, thereby rejecting the option of unification with Romania. In
April 1994, the Parliament confirmed Moldova's membership of the CIS, allowing it to enter the CIS
free trade area. The country also shares a free trade area with Romania.
7.    An innmorenndent. ener'v-intensive economy. 1a egy mrrallv based. In the USSR
economy, Moldova was a producer of raw and processed foodstuffs (primarily grapes, grains, wines,
fruit, vegetables and livestock). The coutry derives its comparative advantage from the fertile soil
and temperate climate. Agrculture accounted for about 40 percent of Net Material Product (NMP);
agro-industry contributed approximately half of the almost 40 percent of NMP accounted for by the
industria sector, along with household appliances and high-technology electrical goods (in part, for
the defense industry, where production has now virtually ceased). The economy was designed to be
highly interdependent with other FSU countries, and trade contiues to be a significant proportion of
GDP (see Annex 1 Tables). In particular, Moldova is 99 percent dependent on imports for primary
energy resources. Characteristic of the FSU, the economy is extremely energy-intensive. The ratio
of dollar GDP to kilograms of oil equivalent used is 0.8, similar to that in Russia and Belarus (both
0.7), but much lower than that in Germany (5.5).
8.    Severe external shocks. As a result of the price hlbrization which accompanied the breakup
of the FSU and exposue to world prices, Moldova experienced a large terms of trade shock
accoundng for 30 percent of GDP in 1992 prices. Its economy was also hit by the disruption in
payments and declining trade within the FSU. In addition, Moldova was afflicted by severe drought
in 1992. In 1994, the sharp decline in FSU aggregate demand has brought almost 70 percent of
industry to a standstill, while another severe drought, followed by hurricas and floods, inflicted
significant losses of crops, herds, and infrastructure, compounding Moldova's economic problems.
Inital estimates of losses amount to $345 million, close to the esmated level of total current public
expenditure in 1994 of $374 million.
9.    Wrenchinj economic co on. The cumulative decline in GDP since 1990 is over 60
percent. Living standards have fallen sharply, with a fal in real average wages of 53 percent
between December 1992 and Janay 1994, and further declines since then. The fall in output has
not been reflected in significant open unemployment, but the use of forced vacations is widespread,
and wage arrears for tme actually worked are estmated at around one-third of wages due for the
economy as a whole; wage arrears are much higher in agriculure.
10.   A ratid macroeconomic stabiliatio. Prices rose on average 1276 percent in 1992, and in
1993 iftion averaged about 21 percent a month, surging from mid-year umil the new currency, the
leu, was introduced in November, 1993. Year on year, infation in 1993 was 788 percent. Since the
introduction of the new currency and the introduction of the stabilizaion program, monetary and
fiscal policy are being tghtened (as descnrbed in paragraphs 12-16 below). Inflation has declined
sharply to monthly rates of under 2 perent, and the fiscal deficit has been narrowed to 8 percent of
GDP for the first part of 1994.
11.   Slweguchanges. Adjustment in the real economy is occurring at a slower pace. than
stabilization. There are an increasing number of small private firms as well as some large exportng
ao-enrprs  with foreign parters. SOEs predomiate, however, and continue to claim the larger



3
share of credit and other resources, crowding out the nascent private sector. The Government now
realizes that the effects of tighter credit, high real interest rates and sharply increased energy prices
have been diluted by widespread rollover of non-performing loans, capitalization of interest, and an
expansion of arrears. Reallocation of resources in response to macroeconomic tightening and relative
prce movements has therefore been muted. The result is coninuing output decline and little
structual change.
B. StabiLzation: Successful but Fragile
12.   Since late 1993, Moldova has been following a tight monetary policy supn-rted by an STF
and a Stand-by arrangement. The Fund program includes market allocation of credit, subsial
declines in the rate of expansion in base money and in net domestic assets, and strict ceilings on
credit to Government from the NBM and the banking system. Monthly rates of inflation are targeted
to fall below 3 percent by December 1994. The overall fiscal deficit was programmed to decline
from over 23 percent of GDP in 1992 to 3.7 percent of GDP in 1994. The program allows for an
increase in government expenditure on the social sectors, but requires large savings in subsidies,
together with increases in tax revenue, derived from removal of tax exemptions and better
compliance.
13.   Iflation has fallen even faster than targeted, from a monthly average of 20.5 percent in 1993
to 2.2 percent in the three months from May to July 1994, and zero in August. In response, nominal
average interest rates set at refiancing auctions have decreased from a peak of 377 percent in March
to 79 percent in July (monthly rate 6.6 percent). The real credit crunch is severe and inte   rates
have been high in real terms for nine months. Short-term lending predominates.
14.   Fiscal tightening reinforced monetary firmess during 1993 and early 1994. Budget transfers
to enterprises were cut to about 1 percent of public expendiure in 1993, and the largest subsidies, on
bread and nilk prices, were eliminated in May 1994. Capital expendtu  was reduced to 3 percent
of GDP. Education and health expenditures are the largest remaining items in the budget at 6 percet
and 3.8 percent respectively of GDP. The authorities have introduced new taxes (see paragraph 19),
removed some exemptions, and extended the scope of excise taxes. However, exemptions from the
VAT and profits tax remain a source of distortions and revenue foregone, especially in the
agricultural sector.
15.   Fiscal firmness is proving hard to sustain. Public sector wage arrears have emerged, together
with arrears on payments for fuel. At the same time, the fiscal stance is thetened by increasing tax
arrears (reaching 150 m lei by March 1994), delayed payments by enterprises to the budget for
extrnally-financed imports, and the transfer to the budget account of overdue government-guarateed
loans to SOEs. In addition, enterprises are shifting to barter deals, whih undennines tax payments
and debt servicing. Recorded GDP is lower than projected. Most recently, the need to replace
housing and repair roads and other infastuctu  destroyed by the senes of naural disasters has
added subsntially to claims on the budget. These factors indicate that the budget deficit is likely to
reach 6.8 percent of GDP in 1994. Slow commitment by donors of pledged external finmcing
designed to provide budget support has worsened these already substantial fiscal pressures.
16.   The Government is now under pressure to lend from the budget for seasonal agricultual
finmce, as banks, affected by tight credit ceilings, non-performing loans, and shrinking use of dte
banig system by enterprises, will not extend furher credit for these purposes. The xistig



4
inefficient allocation of credit and productive resources - in both banks and enterprises - is now
directly threatening the stabilization program.
C. Expemience with Stuctrl Adjustment
17.   Parliament adopted the concept and main principles of transition to a market economy in
successive sessions during 1990 and 1991. Since then, the Government has set out its objectives and
strategy for comprehensive econonuc reform in documents presented to Parliament each year and.
since late 1992, has made considerable progress in creating the conditions for structural change.
Under the program supported by the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan, the Government removed all export
taxes and almost all quantitative restrictions on exports', introduced a new import tariff, eliminated
direct price controls with few exceptions', and raised margin controls. A new currency, the leu, was
introduced in November 1993 and the exchange rate is freely determined at regular inter-bank
auctions held by the Chisinau Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange (CIFCE). The autonomy of the
National Bank of Moldova (NBM) has been strengthened; the authorities have tightened banking laws
and prudential regulations, and are starting on a program of institutional development for the NBM
and the commercial banks.
18.   Since 1992 a series of laws has been passed, including laws on collateral and bankruptcy,
putting in place the legal framework for business. The bankruptcy law has been invoked to deal with
over 40 bankrupt private enterprises. In March 1994, the President issued a decree permitting SOEs
to dispose of surplus assets in the market, helping the emergence of new businesses. State orders
have diminished in importance and are now largely confined to counterpart trade for energy imports
from Russia. During 1993 and 1994, the Goverment has moved to eliminate regulations
circumscribing labor market flexibility and private sector wage determnation. Privaization of
agriculture started in 1992, with distribution of individual plots and the gradual conversion of large
State and collective farms into joint stock and other corporate forms. A small but growing number of
individuals are leaving these companies, taking their shares in the form of land, and seting up as
private farmers.
19.   The stucture of taxation was reformed in successive moves during 1992. Progressive rates of
personal and corporate income tax were introduced; VAT (now at a basic rate of 20 percent) replaced
the turnover tax, and the payroll tax rate on agricultural enterprises was raised and unified (at 38
percent) with the rate in the rest of the economy. Excise taxes were introduced on a wide range of
both imported and domestic products3. Prices for energy have been adjusted upwards substialy
for most consumer groups and will be adjusted further to reflect the higher cost of imported energy
products.
jResriczions still remain on exports of grain, leather, and energy products.
Z,The exceptons are public tansport tar, charges for communal services, housing rents, and the Ste procurement price
for grain.
I/Pesona income tax rates range from 10 to 70 percent, with the bulk of axpayers in the lower part of the range (10-20
pent). Ihe top raze of corporate incom tax is 32 percen. Excise taxes range from 10 to 80 percent on ad valoem
basis.



5
20.   The authorities have enhanced the environment for private sector development through the
improvements noted above in the trade and price regime and regulatory framework. Progress has
been less imnptessive in some other aspects of the program. Privatization of small scale businesses
began in October 1993, but the program was initially subject to delay for both political and technical
reasons, and measures to strengthen public enterprise governance are also lagging. The Government
has made efforts towards better targeting of social protection, but further work is needed to
restructure the social safety net within existing fiscal liniits. Despite the NBM's leadership in reforn,
the commercW banks are slow to adjust, and existing credit allocations to traditional clients have
shown litde change.
21.   On the other hand, there has been substantial progress in hardening the budget constraint on
enterprises, with extremely tight conditions for new credit and the withdrawal of almost all
government subsidies to enterprises. However, with the success of the stabilization efforts, pressures
broke out through other channels. Financial constraints on enterprises were relieved through loan
rollover and capitalization of interest owed, through an outgrowth of arrears - to suppliers,
employees, banks, and the budget - and through default on government guaranteed loans. Political
pressures exerted by enterprises for trade protection also resulted in the imposition of excessive
import tariffs on sensitive products including wine and carpets. The combination of evasion of the
hard budget constraint and slow ownership change has tended to perpetuate past pattems of resource
allocation and output, with the result that change in the real economy is as yet limited.
22.   Some of the delays in program implementation can be ascribed to the suspension of normal
government business during the election campaign leading up to the Parliamentary elections on
February 27, 1994, and the subsequent formation of the new Govermnent; and to the emergence of
opposition to reform from vested interests. Since it took office, however, the Govermment has
demonstrated renewed commitment to the program, with the establishment of the Republican
Commission to put more teeth into enterprise financial discipline and of a new Ministry of
Privatization and State Property, responsible for acceleration of the privatization program. The
Government has also decided to eliminate margin controls, adopt a timetable for reducing the
maximum import tariff to 20 percent by end-November 1995, and submit legislation to Parliament for
a phased increase of the retirement age.
D. Mh Road Ahead
23.   The path of reform so far has been difficult, especially in the face of a series of natural
disasters, the tension over the status of Transnistria, and the growing impoverishment of the
population. The notable stabilization success is fragile in the absence of quick movement in the real
economy. Realizing this, the Government has elaborated a program for the next stage of reform that
is focused on the policies needed to spur movement in the real economy. This program is described
in Part I.
24.      The authorities realize that decisiveness and determination will be needed in the adoption
of critical measures to accelerate privatization of the economy, harden the budget constaint on
enterprises, create a cormpetitive environment, and ensure minimum protection for those who suffer in
the process. The growth and adjustment path projected in the following is based on the
implementaion of this program. Certainly the path projected can unfold only under these conditions,
which are also the ones the Strctural Adjustment Loan would support.



6
25.   Condnuing progress with export and price V" zralization is already enabling a recovery in
exps from their depressed levels in 1992 and 1J93. Strong export growth to both FSU and non-
FSU markets was emerging in 1994 before the natural disasters struck. The export pull should
conte, responding to trade liberalization, enterprise restructuring, de-monopolization in agriculture,
and the elimination of restrictions on private market activity. Foreign investment has already taken
place in the wine and fruit concentrate industries and further foreign investment is expected, helping
ivesuntet to revive and production become better attuned to market demand. Under these
conditions, GDP would start to grow by 1995, arresting the decline in private consumption during
1996. In the absen  of external shocks or of policy reversal, GDP growth would rise gradually
thereafter. Real output would recover its 1991 level only by the end of the decade, however.
26.    Growth in production and exports should come from small dynmic private firms (both new
starts and privatized entities), together with large enterprises responding to the new environment in
both agricultwe and industry. This response has already started, to a large extent through joint
venures wih Russian. and Westem European partners. A larger penetration of Moldova's ex'ons in
CIS markets can be expected with better product quality, increased marketing efforts and improved
relations with the CIS countries. In parallel, the shift in the composition and direction of trade
towards non-CIS markets is likely to continue (exports to the non-FSU had already reached 39 percent
of total exports in 1993). However, this redirection of trade could over time be constrained by
proom, particularly in the large Western European market.
MOOVA - Main Ma  bundcta
(in percent)
1994 1995 1997 20_0 2002
GDP Growth Rate          -6.0  0.5  3.5  5.5  6.0
Exports (GNFS) Growth Rae  5.0  4.8  6.1  6.4  6.5
Impotts (GNFS) Growth Rate  4.0  1.0  3.1  3.9  4.2
wnvesotUtIGOP              8.7  11.0  15.0  18.0  18.0
SavwgIGDP                 -6.7  -3.1  3.5  10.4  12.4
RPcal DeflOcGDP           -6.8  .4.6  .0.3  -1.0  40.8
Resource 8alanco/GDP     .16.4 -14.1 -11.5  -7.6  -5.6
27.   Ihe coing pass-through to domestic users of world energ prces and the enforcement of
budt  constraint on them wil promote a reduction over tme in the energy ntesity of the
economy. Firms would undertake new investments that embody greater energy efficiency while the
product m  would shift away from energy-intensive products. A reduction in the share of energy
prodt in total imports would follow, leaving room for capital goods imports. These trends would
induce a reducdon in the share of imports to GDP while the export to GDP ratio rises, trmslating
into a steady narrowing of the trade deficit.



7
28.   The financing of investments will require a sustained increase in domestic savins; initially
from a reduction of the public sector cuarent deficit, but later from the effort of the private sector.
responding to price stability, finacial sector reform, and the expanded opportunities for private sector
investment. In addition, the economy will have to cominue to rely on external savings to complement
the domestic effort, in the form of a rising flow of foreign direct investment as well as balance of
payments assistance. External financing for investment is needed to orient production in response to
market demand and spur efficiency improvemens, which will require energy-efficient investment in
all sectors. A small number of large food-processing plants are equipped to Westem standards, but
most of the machinery and equipment in agriculture and industiy is obsolete (and, in agricllture, ill-
adapted to the growing Tnber of smaller-sized farms). These add up to significant investment
requirements.
E. Extena Fnancing, Debt and Creditworhness
29.   As noted above, there is a pressing need for extern  finae for balance of payments
support as well as for investment purposes. Moldova's dependence on imports, and especially
imported energy, combined with the massive terms of trade shock, mean that production is likely to
fal furither unless financing is available to sustain imports in the near term while adjustmnm takes
place. This need is particularly glarng in the energy sector, where the country has large arrears.
30.   Burden-sharing is an issue. The World Bank and the IMP, together with Russia, have
supplied the bulk of exernal assistance to date. Bilateral assistance has also been etended by the
United States, Japan, China, the Netherlands and Romania, and will soon be forthcoming from the
European Union. The Bank plans to convene a Consultative Group in early 1995 with the aim of
mobilizing contining and broader support.
31.   Moldova agreed to the zero option with the Russian Federation so has no responsibility for
the external debt of the FSU. Debt to Russia incldes consolidated debt of $89 m plus a further loan
of 50 billion rubles, and arrears in mid-June to Russian energy suppliers of over 800 m lei (including
exchange losses). There is $78 m of other bilateral debt, and $86 m in IBRD loans; and there will be
debt of $150 m to the IMF when the Stand-by is fully disbursed. Bilateral financing from the United
States, China, the Netherlands and Romania is in grant form or is concessional, but Moldova faces
market rates on credits from the EU, Japan and Russia.
32.   Moldova's deficit on current account can be expected to narrow from 15.4 percent of GDP in
1994 to around 7 percent in 2005; and the ratio of debt service to exports would begin falling in
2005, havig risen to around 20 percent by the end of the decade and nearly 30 percen in 2004. The
IBRD's share of total debt service declines after 2003. Debt to GDP would fall from a peak of 67.5
percent in the year 2002, and then decline steadily. While these indicators remain below those for
middle income coutries as a whole, they are high for the FSU in general, and paricularly given the
low startng point. They raise serious questions for the long term and suggest at least a portion of
future official assistance to Moldova should contme to be on concessional terms.



8
II.  HOW TO ACHEVE ECONOMIC GROWTH BASED ON THE MARKET
A. S heg the Macroeconomic Framework
33.   To achieve sustainable growth based on the market, the authorities recognize that the first
requiremnent is a sound macroeconomic framework in which clear signals are provided to economic
agents. The objective for mnacroeconomic policy is to attain a level of absorption in the domestic
economy and real exports that will'be consistent with sustainable domestic and foreign balances.
Monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policy will need to be hamessed to this end. Then, to ensure the
econcany adjusts to this framework, a mutually reinforcing set of structural measures is needed to
achieve ownership change, harden the budget constrain. on enterprises, create a competitive
environment, and improve the targeting of social protection within fiscal constraints, as set out in
Sections B to E below.
34. fIMoty. pg1jW. In late 1993, the authorities introduced policies for macroeconornic
stabilization (supported by an IMF program, as described in paragraphs 12-13) that have forced a
sharp drop in inflation and produced stability in the exchange rate. They are cormmitted to continuing
these policies so as to create conditions for non-inflationary growth. Further measures required to
nake the progress achieved so far sustainable, and allow real interest rates to fall from their present
higt levels, will include restraints on the informal growth of credit that is now occurring through
arrears and accumulating interest on bad loans. These practices mean that demand for credit is
inflated by demand from clients who do not expect to repay. As credit supply is strictly limited under
the stabilization program, this inflated demand pushes interest rates higher than they would otherwise
be if payment discipline were imposed. Viable firms that intend to repay are penalized in these
conditions. Measures to restrain these practices, thus assisting a market-based fall in nominal interest
rata, are addressed in Section C (paragraphs 43-60) on hardening the budget constraint on enterprises
and developing the strategy for the banking sector.
35.   Strengthening fiscal policy. At the same time, the Govermnent intends to enforce fiscal
discipline in a sustainable way, recognizing that too much reliance is currently being placed on
payment arrears to achieve cash deficit targets. However, overall, arrears to the budget exceed
arrears from the budget, (although they do not necessarily involve the same enterprises) so the cash
deficit could be lowered furdter if arrears in both directions were fully paid. Their inmmediate priority
is to improve collection of taxes and other enterprise arrears to the budget, in order to protect deficit
reduction gains and allow credit to Government to remain within ceiling. Without such measures,
credit to Government is soon likely to exceed the limits consistent with stabilization objectives. To
this end, the Government has imposed severe penalties on late tax payments, and is seeking external
assistance to re-orient the tax administration from a centralized to a decentralized private economy
and to raise capacity for tax registration, collection and audit. Other measures currently underway
include the introduction of a Treasury function and a public investment program, which will permit
improved expenditure programming and control.
D. Ownership Change
36.   As part of the development of a dynamic private sector, the Government's objective is to
transfer ftom public to private ownership the great nmjority of State-owned enterprises (SOEs). The
main elements of the strategy are to:



9
o     implement the 1993/1994pnavaouonprogrwn as fast as techicaily possible;
o     define, adopt and implement a new priatizaon pnrgram for 1995/1996.
Privatization - bckround and methods
37.   The Parliament approved the Privadzation Law in July 1991, but implementation was delayed
by the outbreak of conflict over the status of Transnstria and continuing debate on methods of
privatization. The approach finally chosen was mass privatization through patrimonial bonds
(vouchers) using a national computerized system, with cash sales limited to a small nber of
construction sites and a very few enterprises. This reflected the wish that only Moldovan citizens
should participate directly in the program and the fear that purchasers holding rubles from outside the
country would outbid nationals if cash sales were permited.
38.   The patrimonial bonds are non-tradeable. The nominal value of the bond varies according to
the number of years worked, together with a base amount equivalent to five work-years assigned to
all Moldovan citizens including children. Employees have the right to use their bonds to buy up to
20 percent of the enterprises they work in, and suppliers to agro-processing enterprises are entitled to
50 percent of the stock of these enterprises free. These arrangements reflect the political balance in
Moldova between the agricultural and industral lobbies. Overal, the privatization methods chosen
lead to wide diffusion of ownership of individual enterprises. Recognizing that post-privatzation
share-trading after the initial round of privatization will be crucial if efficiency gains are to be
realized, the Govermment has ensured that shares are ttadeable; it has also passed the necessary
legislation to enable the establishment of private financial intenediaries such as Investment Funds,
Trust Companies and citizens' associations, which are al in the early stages of creation. An
independent Stock Exchange is being set up to facilitate post-privatiaon share trading, and the
authorities are also establishing the equivalent of a Sewcides Exchange Commission.
39.   The original 1993/94 Privatization Program covered 955 enterprises and 500 smaU-scale firms
(shops, coffee houses). They represent the majority of Stateowned firms, though only about 35
percent of the total value of State assets including hospitals, schools, and railways. The list of
enterprises for privatization under this program is now being updated as it includes enterprises in
Transistia controlled by the authorities there and enterprises whicb have closed or disappeared
through mergers and acquisitions since the list was compilod.
Acceleration of drivatzatioL
40.   The implementation of the 1993/94 Privatization Program was initially very slow, and came
to a virua stop as elections approached and the agencies involved becme highly politicized.
However, the Govenunent elected in Febnrary 1994 set up a new Ministty of Privatization and State
Property Administration over the previously waring agencies, streamlined the regulatory framework,
and mobilized broader support to prepare enterprises for privatization by using other Ministries and
the private sector. Enterprises are also being required to prepare their own pdvatization plans. In
mid-1994, the national auction system was tested through pilot auctions and is now working well,
with an increasing number of enteprises being privatized each month.
41.   Completion of the 1993/94 Privadzation alm. No technical obstacles now remain and the
Government is making a determined effort to complete in sbstane the 1993194 Pdivatization



1(1
Program by the end of 1994. Voucher auctions were held for over 154 large enterprises and around
70 small-scale enterprises were auctioned by end-October. The Government is seeking to raise the
numbers of enterprises prepared and auctioned every month. While it will not be possible to meet the
original target of completion of privatization of 500 small-scale and approximately 600 remaining
mediun-to-large enterprises by end-Decenber, 1994, the remainder will be announced in December
for susbsequent auction at a specified date. This will represent a significant transformation of the
ownership structure of the economy and will create a large private sector.
42.   The new grivatization strategy and 1995/96 Drogram, A new privatization strategy will be
incorporated in the 1995/96 Privatization Program to be submitted to Parliament in November 1994,
which will cover the remaining SOEs slated for privatization. The Government realizes that mass
privatization of larger enterprises by patrimonial bonds does not, in the short run, produce the
concentration of ownersip, new management. or new capital necesary for efficiency improvements.
Oppornunities for strategic investors can occur only in second and following rounds of share trading.
Hence, to improve efficiency, the new strategy will provide for cash auctions and negotiated direct
sales to domestic and foreign core investors. To prevent delay and de-capitalization of enterprises
which remain in the public portfolio and cannot be sold by other methods, the new program will
contain an updated mass privatization component using indexed savings. In recognition of the large
number of financiaUy troubled enterprises and those which have already shut down, the program will
also provide for asset spin-off, liquidations, and sales of assets at open auctions. (Such actions are
already occurring in parallel under the enterprise financial discipline component but were not
previously envisaged under the privatization progran).
C. Hardeing the Budget Constraint
43.   The authorities recognize that it is essential to harden the budget constraint on enterprises if
the incentives created by liberalized prices and ownership change are to be effective in producing
changes in economic behavior. Efforts to corporatize SOEs and introduce improved corporate
governance mechanisms are under way but are slow to implement; productive results from this
process are even slower. These efforts will continue, and should yield in the medium-term a more
efficient allocation of resources and more market-oriented composition of prodehction. But tougher
payments discipline is needed immediately if enterprises, whether public or private, are to be
constrained to respond to market signals now, forcing the switch in resources needed to underpin
stabilization efforts and permit growth to emerge.
44.   Using a multi-pronged approach to strengthen financial discipline throughout the economy and
induce enterprise adjustment to market conditions, the Government plans to:
o     strengthenfiscal disdpline especially through withdrawal of subsidies, improved tax
collection, and recovery of debts to the budget;
o     strengthen credior and payments discpline through a range of instruments including
use of the collateral law and bankruptcy laws;
o     send a strong signal by liquidatng a number of enterprises that have no fiture and in
less extreme cases force managerial and financial restructuring including spinning off
assets;



11
o     strengthen baiing discipline within the context of a strategy to improve bank safety
and develop a modern banking sector.
45.   StrenFthening fiscal discipline. As noted in paragraph 35, the Governent plans to impose
fiscal discipline. The Ministry of Finance is playing the primary role. The largest budget leakages
occur through tax arrears, where broadly based taxes have declined even more than GDP; through
overdue Government guaranteed loans falling on the budget account; and through late payments by
SOEs for goods received under official external financing. The Ministry has aready collected a large
proportion of the money on overdue loans assumed by the budget, and the issue of fiurther
Governnent guarantees has now been severely restricted to a small number of loans where collateral
is not available. Efforts are also being made to collect payments for extemally fimanced imports, but
some will have to be written off. The Government has received technical advice on strengthening the
tax administration and resrwctig it to match the emerging private and decentralized economy, but
the task will be difficult and time-consuming. In the meantime, the authorities are trying to improve
collections by removing tax exemptions.
46.   StrenSILeninn creditor discipline. The Governnent will clrify and publicize existing legal
rights of all creditors. These rights include the ability to start bankruptcy procedures, enforce
collateral agreements on all economic agents including SOEs, and negotiate debt settlements. The
Government will also enhance court capacity to enable more active use of the collateral, bankruptcy
and liquidation laws. To reduce the high costs of enforcing payments discipline, the Government will
review the high fees charged for registering collateral, initiating bankruptcy proceedings, and other
financial procedures.
47.   These measures follow on from a nationwide exercise to net enterprise arrears and enforce
SOE payments discipline that took place in early 1994, steered by a Republican Commission set up
for the purpose. As a result of this exercise, the authorities now have a database on the composition
of arrears and the worst net debtors and will maintain it on a regular basis. The enterprises in arrears
have been screened to identify the worst loss-makers. The Govermment refised pressure to clear the
remaining net debt with an infusion of new credit; instead, it is dealing with the worst cases (see
paragraphs 49-53 below) and is considering inroduction of a scheme to securitize inter-enterprise debt
and allow a secondary market to develop. The Government is also playing a role in payments
discipline t1rough the Ministry of Finance. The budget as creditor will continue to pursue its claims
on ente-,nse debtors for tax arrears and for goods procured under externally financed loans.
48.   Enterprise arrears to energy utilities are large and consequently the f&iancial situation of these
utilities is a major concern. In addition to continuing the policy of adjusting the energy tariffs to
reflect the increased price of imported energy, mechanisms have been introduced for dealing with
these arrears and to improve payment discipline on new bills. These mechanisms include cutting
services to non-paying customers and imposition of fines at or above commercial interest rates. A
number of enterprises have already been cut off and pre-payment is being demanded for new supplies.
49. Sending a strong signal. Although many enterprises are technically bankrupt they continue to
survive through sharing wage cuts and compulsory vacations among workers, not paying taxes or
debts, and accmlaing arears to other enterprises or udlities. Thus the skills, machinery and fixed
assets remain tied up in these unproductive enterprises and are not made available for new, more
efficient uses. In order to deal with this problem, formal legal mechanisms will be used to close
entprises and auction their assets. Severance pay will be financed by the Employment Fund in cases



12
where bankrupt enterprises cannot cover their obligations to workers (see also paragraph 74:
promoting labor market adjustment). In less extreme cases, productive ownership change in SOEs is
to be achieved by rationalizing businesses and selling off assets and accumulated stocks. In effect,
these other methods will occur in parallel with privatization through the patrimonial bond program,
getting assets into the market quickly in cases where it would not be possible to sell the enterprise to
the population as a viable going concern.
50.   In the near term, with market mechanisms for creditor discipline as yet untested, the
Government has decided to signal the tightening of financial discipline by administrative means. It
initiated in November 1994 the liquidation of the worst five loss-making SOEs identified during the
recent arrears-netting exercise. At the samne time another five SOEs with some prospects for recovery
were selected for "clinical" control. Financial discipline will be imposed on these enterprises through
nanagerial and financial restructuring, including the privatization of specific production lines, sale of
assets, changes in pricing policy and other measures. Fresh resources from the budget will not be
used. Further liquidations of non-viable SOEs (including, if appropriate, some listed in the 1993/94
privatization program) are envisaged as enterprise adjustment proceeds and through the appropriate
track of the 1995/96 privatization program.
51.   After these initial pilot liquidations and restructuring measures, actions to impose financial
discipline will be extended to a further group of at least 10-20 loss-making SOEs during the first part
of 1995. The Government as owner will force the enterprises to sell assets and stocks to clear debts.
It will subject serious loss-makers to strict limits on future borrowing and the worst loss-makers will
not have access to new funds. Organizational changes will also be required, including brealdng SOEs
up into smaller units, without injecting new capital from the state budget.
52.   However, the Goverunent does not want enterprise restructuring to rest solely on its own
administrative decisions. For this reason, it is taking the steps to strengthen generalized creditor
discipline outlined above and is promoting financial sector discipline as noted below. It also wishes
enterprises to take their own initiative in rationalizing their activities and clearing debts. To this end,
a decree enabling enterprises to sell assets and equipment was issued in March 1994 and the
requirement for prior approvals for such sales was lifted in October 1994.
53.   The Government as owner will continue to have restructuring responsibilities. Once
implementation capacity is better developed, the Govermnent intends to deepen the process through
liquidation and passive restructuring programs in cases where financial discipline on SOEs is not
being exerted sufficiently by independent creditors or through early privatization. Supported by the
PSD operation now being prepared, the Government plans to develop an isolation exercise for
troubled enterprises, under which isolation from outside financing would be triggered by the size and
duration of their debt. The enterprise would then enter a moratorium phase in which two initial
routes would be available to it: voluntary liquidation or rehabilitation. If rehabilitation (including
asset spin-off, cost-cutting, labor shedding and debt settlements) did not work within a specified
period, the enterprise would enter bankruptcy proceedings or be liquidated.
54.   Financial sector objectives and strategy. The authorities' objectives are to promote the
development of an autonomous central bank and modem commercial banking sector, together with an
appropriately regulated insurance industry. The National Bank of Moldova (NBM) is now relatively
independent, is well able to conduct monetary policy, and is tightening prudential requirements on the
commercial banling sector, which consists of the four main ex-Soviet banks together with a dozen



13
small new banks. With the exception of the Savings Bank, which continues to be majority State-
owned, the former State banks have been nominally privatized, although a large proportion of their
shares is held by SOEs. Once these SOEs are privatized, the banking sector will also become fully
privatized. The NBM should keep a close watch on competitive conditions, given the possibility that
one or two of the former State banks could dominate this sector.
55.   However, the banking sector is not yet in a position to take a leading part in the needed
rationalization and restructuring of the enterprise sector. Neither the accounting and other banking
infrastructure nor the human capacity is yet in place to make the informed judgements necessary for
efficient credit allocation. Lending decisions are too often swayed by large shareholders. And the
capital position of most of the biggest banks is severely compromised by poor lending decisions.
which have resulted in a concentration of non- or poorly-performning loans to a relatively small
number of enterprises, few of which may survive the transition.
56.   In this situation, the strategy is to create a small but powerful set of rewards and penalties that
will create immediate incentives for commercial banks to seek profitable lending opportunities and
rebuild their capital position, while moving as quickly as possible to foster institutional development
in parallel. The first part of the strategy (paragraphs 57-59) is designed to produce greater efficiency
in credit allocation while improving bank safety. The main emnphasis is on loan classification and
provisioning, strengthening the capital base, and enforcement of prudential regulations. Fees and
bank taxation will be reviewed to support the strategy. The second part concerns institutional
development (paragraph 60).
57.    Since January 1994, the NBM has required commercial banks to classify loans as having
normal, doubtful or bad repayment prospects, and to establish reserve funds. This practice will now
be strengthened and formalized on the basis of the information from the audits of the four main
commercial banks which were carried out during 1994. The NBM issued regulations in November
1994, requiring banks to classify their portfolios, identify non-performing loans, and establish
provisions against expected losses; these regulations will apply to all loans made after March 1, 1995.
The NBM will announce a timetable starting in April 1995 and leading to full provisioning by March
1996. New standards for allowable capital will be introduced before end-1994. In early 1995,
regulations for simple risk-weighted capital standards will be introduced, as the next step in a
timetable for moving into line with international practice. Banks will also be required to implement
the prudential regulation limiting exposure to single large borrowers to less than 30 percent of capital,
with exceptions for five named utilities. The restriction on connected lending will be reinstated, with
the same exceptions. At present, the NBM has few instruments at its disposal to deal with non-
compliance. Under the new Banking Law, to be submitted to Parliament by mid 1995, a range of
penalties and sanctions will be developed in line with normal banking practice. At the same time,
banks will be given incentives to expand their deposit-taking business and extend their lending in
other directions. In recognition that higher capital and provisioning standards will raise costs, the
Government will propose to Parliament a new taxation policy phasing in tax deductibility of amounts
set aside for capital and risk reserves for all commercial banks as from April 1995.
58.   The new focus on limniting exposure to bad loans and building up capital will help reduce the
practice of automatic loan rollover and interest capitalization. Together with the requirements to
restrict connected lending and limit exposure relative to capital to single large borrowers, these
measures will force banks to confront the excessive credit demand of large inefficien. SOE clients.



14
At the same time, the banks should be encouraged to collateralize loans and use the bankruptcy and
collateral laws as appropriate.
59.   The requirement that the commercial banks adopt safer banking practices will be matched
with efforts from other parts of the Government to establish a safe and stable bankdng system and
enforce financial discipline. As a first step, the NBM will collect information on connected SOE
lending and large exposure loans to SOEs, and share this information with the Ministry of Finance, so
that appropriate steps can be taken within the Govenmnent tc prevent enterprises from running up
excessive debt burdens before privatization.
60.   Institutional development. The NBM is starting to coordinate and supervise a program of
instiutinal stnthening for the fiacial sector. With external assistance, the NBM's accounting
systems are being modenized and capacity for banking supervision will be enhanced. In the
comnmercial sector, the audits on the four main banks will be followed by diagnostic studies; after that
stage, development of twinning arrangements with Western banks is being considered. The NBM is
drafting a new banking law. It has also established a working committee with representatives of the
commercial banks to reform accounting practices, with the objective of developing an action plan and
timetable for conversion to a new standard. Training for commercial bankers has recently started
with assistance from USAID. Training programs will also be developed, with external support, to
enable the introduction of the new classification and provisioning standards, and to raise capacity in
normal conmmercial banking functions including credit and risk evaluation.
D. Creating a Compeitive Environment
61.   To promote sustainable growth, the authorities need to ensure that price signals correspond as
closely as possible to real resource costs, that restraints on competition are removed, and that
enterprises respond efficiently to market incentives and constraints. The program supported by the
Rehabilitation Loan made substantial progress in establishing an enabling environment for private
sector development (see Part I, Section C: Experience with Structural Adjustment, paragraphs 17-22
and paragraph 62 below). To complement these advances, the next stage of the program will tackle
the major remaining constraints to private sector development through the policies described in this
section on trade, prices and foreign exchange; State procurement; and demonopolization and
privatization in the agricultural sector. At the same time, the acceleration of privatization and the
imposidon of a hard budget constraint on enterprises (Sections B and C above) will promote the
supply of assets and access to credit needed to promote growth in the private sector.
62.   Trade, prices and forei8 exchanee. The Government has already made considerable progress
in removing restrictions on trade, priing and foreign exchange allocaton (paragraphs 17-19). Most
export and price restrictions have been eliminated and the exchange rate is freely determined at
foreign exchange auctions. In a further round of liberalization in mid-1994, minmium reference
prices for exports were removed, as were the prohibition on barter exports to convertible currency
countries and the import tariff surcharge on barter. In addition, on November 1, 1994 the
Government submitted legislation to Parliament to eliminate margin controls as from January 1, 1995,
with the exception of a short list of essential goods, from which margin controls will be removed in
the first half of 1995; and applied Most Favored Nation (MFN) tariff rates to a limited number of
countries (by end-1995, MFN rates will apply to all countries of origin, except where free trade
agreements apply).



1S
63.   The objective of increasing productive efficiency and technological innovation through
external competition will be pursued through a low and relatively uniform import tariff. The
maximum tariff rate will be reduced in stages, according to a schedule submitted to Parliament as part
of the budget submission for 1995. According to this schedule, the maximum tariff will be reduced
to 50 percent as of January 1, 1995, to 30 percent as of April 1, 1995, and to 20 percent by
December 1, 1995.4 Duty exemptions for foreign investors and small businesses will be minimized
to avoid fiscal revenue losses and to provide equal treaunent to all forms of business. Subsidies on
imports implicit in the arrangements for distribution of products financed by external credits will be
eliminated; wherever possible foreign currency or goods supplied by extenal credits will be
auctioned, and all credit to the distributors or recipients of such goods will be on market terms. The
surrender requirement for foreign exchange (which is now at the market rate) will be abolished
entirely by end-Deember 1994.
64.   State procurement will be put on a competitive basis. Valuable experience was gained under
the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan with competitive tendering and international shopping, with the result,
inter alia, that the authorities were able to procure a large quantity of fuel for the 1993/94 winter at
below world market prices. As a result of this experience, both domestic and foreign suppliers will
be invited to tender for fulfillment of the state's requirements in future. Technical assistance from the
World Bank through an IDF is being utilized to prepare the necessary legislation and design the
system. No preferences in allocation of inputs or credit will be given to those who supply state
needs, in order not to undermine their competitors. Competition will be allowed in all products
where the state is involved in supplying inputs or marketing outputs.
65.   Demononolization in aricudture. As agriculture is the dominant sector of the economy,
reform in that sector is essential for recovery in growth and exports. Improvement in the efficiency
of input and output markets is the identified priority in the reform of agriculture. The Government
has therefore decided to break up and privatize the large agricultural parastatals, starting with the
conglomerates Cereale (grain procurement and processing) and Fertilitatea (ferilizers and other input
supplies). Based on experience with these two dominant parastatals, a general policy will be
developed for restrucaring and privatizing all the agricultural parastatals. The Govermnent has
already abolished Cereale as an independent entity, and taken it temporarily into the Ministry of
Agriculture. The commercial enterprises that existed under the Cereale umbrella will be separated
and privatized as independent commercial units during 1995 and 1996, following Parliamentary
approval of their inclusion in the 1995/96 Privatization Program. As a result of this split-up, the
functional monopoly in many areas (storage, milling, bakeries) will cease to exist. The Ministry of
Agrculture will retain regulatory and other public service functions. The same model will be used
for Fertilitatea, starting in late 1994. The privatization of Cereale and Fertlitatea is likely to create
several hundred competing new fims, with varying levels of viability, which will impel a process of
wholesale adjustnent in resource use in agriculture.
66.   In parallel, the Government will remove obstacles to competition in the markets that were
served by the two conglomerates. Efforts to develop improved agricultural markets will be guided by
the idea that Moldova is a small nation and must be fuy integrated with the international economy if
I/For a small number of luxury goods, a tarf of 30 percent will be maiamined in order to coordinate wih tariffs of those
goods in other CIS counties. The tariff for alcoholic beverages will be harmonized with the prevailing triff in Russia.
The import tariff for guns and ammunition will be 70 percent.



16
agriculture is to grow and prosper. Participation in these international markets will be increased by
the removal of the restriction on grain exports by mid-1995. Efforts will also be made to develop
information systems for international markets that will permit the restructured private agricultural
enterprises to participate more effectively in international commerce.
67.   Demonopolization in rural retail trade. The highly centralized - and highly inefficient - Union
of Consumer Cooperatives of Moldova (Moldcoop) dominates rural retail trade and owns almost all
retail storage facilties and outlets in rural areas. Sales have decreased significantly and Moldcoop is
a large net debtor, according to the evidence collected by the Republican Commission. Because of its
legal status as a private cooperative, it cannot be treated like an SOE. However, the Government has
decided to move swiftly to deal with the costs Moldcoop is currently imposing on the economy. In
September 1994 it arrived at an agreement with the management of Moldcoop that it would be subject
to a full organizational and financial audit followed by restructuring, with the aim of adjustment to the
new economic environment. At the same time, directed credit to Moldcoop has been eliinnated, and
creditors throughout the economy will be encouraged to pursue legal measures to recover outstanding
debts from Moldcoop. These pressures will help impel asset spin-off and i'Tster decentralization of
Moldcoop's operations. At the same time, formal and informal barriers to entry of new firms into
rural food and retail trade will be eliminated.
68.   Efficient land and rural credit markets. The corporatization and privatization of former state
and collective farms is proceeding, together with the distribution of individual plots of land. In July
1994, the Government issued a decision determining that two thirds of the land is subject to
privatization and setting a November 1994 deadline for local authorities to issue land titles for all
stock-holders and private snall plot owners. The implementation of the decree will help the
development of markets in rural assets and credit. For that purpose, the Government plans to set up
land titling and registration procedures, but it should be recognized that these will take some time to
put in place. At present, there is a moratorium on land sales until the year 2001. With the objective
of ending the moratorium, as a first step the Govermnent has already submitted legislation to
Parliament to legalize the sale of land in urban areas and provide for leasing, for up to 99 years, of
land in rural areas. Once this measure is implemented, the Government intends, as the second step,
to remove the ban on sales of agricultural land. Fanners and commercial banks will also be
encouraged to use leases as collateral, to aid in raising needed finance. The resulting opportunities to
trade land and to finance production will increase incentives within the joint stock companies to define
property rights for land more clearly.
E. Providing Social Protection within Fiscal Constrants
69.   The Government wishes to ensure that social protection is available for vulnerable groups and
also to provide unemployment benefits for the rising numbers of people who will be dismissed as a
result of enterprise adjustment. Some progress has been made in targeting the worst-off through the
Social Support Fund, but much remains to be done to make social protection more effective within
existing fiscal limits.
70.   Pensions and unemployment benefits: the financing problem. Pensions and unemployment
benefits in Moldova are calculated with reference to the minimum wage, with supplements above the
minimum based on past earnings. They are financed by a payroll tax of 38 percent on wages paid.
Changes in early 1994 in the minimum-wage based formula for calculating pensions raised the total
cost of pension provision. At the same time, collections of payroll tax went into serious decline in



17
parallel with the fall in output and shift to barter transactions. In June, when the minimum wage was
raised to 18 lei per month, only 60 percent of pensions could be paid.
71.   Targeted compensation for price increases. It was already clear that the formula linking
pensions to the minimum wage was doing little to secure pensioner incomes (and that those receiving
the minimum wage-based pension were actually falling behind in real terms). More had been
achieved to protect vulnerable groups from poverty by the use, in 1993 and early 1994, of targeted
price compensations financed by the budget for pensioners, families with children and other
vulnerable groups to help compensate for the staged removal of subsidies on bread and milk. The
Government has now decided to de-link pensions and other benefits from the minimum wage.
Instead, a system of targeted price adjustments is being introduced. Under the new system, all
qualifying beneficiaries will receive the same nominal amount in comipensation for price increases.
This compensation will occur only to the extent permitted in the context of the overall fiscal
adjustment. The new system was announced on November 10, 1994, for implementation in January,
1995. The next announcement will be made in January for implementation early in 1995.
72.   Introduction of the new system will offer better protection to the poorest beneficiaries.
Together with the gradual increase in the pension age, for which the Govermnent will subnit
legislation to Parliament in the fall of 1994, the new compensation mechanism will provide
considerable savings to the Social Fund and release resources for increased unemployment benefits.
This is because, under the new system, the earnings-related component of the pension will effectively
be frozen at current nominal levels. As only non-working pensioners will be entitled to compensation
for price increases, pensioners who are still in employment will find their benefit incomes erode in
real terms with time. Along with the phased increase in the pension age, the new price compensation
system will help to improve the financial position of the Pension and Employment Fund; the cost-
sharing arrangement between the Pension and Employment Fund and the budget will be kept under
regular review. In the longer run, the Government hopes to assist enterprise adjustment by reducing
the level of payroll tax, recognizing that it creates a disincetive to employment and places a burden
on enterprises. As a first step, it plans to reduce the rate of payroll tax from 38 percent to 35 percent
on January 1, 1995. The Government also intends to enable other savings and pension instruments to
be created. This will stimulate resource mobilization and enable people to generate income for old
age over and above the basic pension.
73.   To assist the establishment of the new system, the Government will postpone further increases
in the minimum wage (the Minister of Finance has already announced that no increases are envisaged
in calendar 1995), and is considering whether to abandon the minimum-wage based system of wage
determination altogether. This would aid reduction of inflationary pressures in the economy. It
would also necessitate another system of deternining incomes that have previously been defined in
terms of multiples of the minimum wage (notably within the Government administration - wages
elsewhere in the economy are already deregulated). The Government plans to work on an alternative
mechanism for wage-fixing for Government employees that would be related to labor market
conditions.
74.   Promo  labor market adjustment: severance pav. At present, many enterprises cannot
afford to pay workers, yet cannot afford to dismiss them, because they lack funds to cover severance
pay. The Govemment has decided that both labor market and enterprise adjustment would be
promoted by amending severance pay requirements. Specifically, in cases of liquidation or
bankruptcy where the enterprise cannot cover its severance obligations, the Employment Fund would



18
finance severance pay to dismissed workers. A formal Government decision was issued in November
1994 for implementation from January 1995.
75.   Capaciqt to cover increasing claims for Imemployment benefit. The rate of recorded
unemployment remains very low, at 1 percent in the first half of 1994, of whom only about 25
percent received unemployment benefit. These rates will rise as a result of enterprise retrenchment,
bringing into question capacity to pay benefits. However, the rate of claim would have to rise from
the present 0.25 percent to 5 percent before the financing assigned to the Employment Fund came
under pressure. Beyond that point, it would be necessary either to increase the share of payroll tax
assigned to the Employment Fund (which would become more feasible once the relative amount
required for pension claims began to fall as a result of pension reform); or to transfer fumds from the
Goverrnent budget. An analysis of replacement rates and unemployment benefit flows, on the
assumption that job loss rates reach 10,000 per month by March 1995 and continue at that rate
through 1995 and 1996, indicates that unemployment benefit claims would level off at 6.9 percent.
This increase in claims is within the range of the fiscally tolerable, especially if the authorities also
review and reduce the rate and duraion (presently nine months) of unemployment benefit if financing
is stretched, which they have committed to do.
F. Acdeving a Supply Respoe: Com             Meures
76.   The measures outlined above should provide the basis for the projected turnaround in the
decline of output in Moldova. Given the steepness of the decline however, the government cannot
rely only on a correct structure of incentives and the removal of obstacles to private sector activity to
insure that the pick-up in growth is sufficient for the political and economic sustainability of the
program. For this reason a number of additional steps are being considered to promote increased
production and exports. Some of these are being supported by other World Bank operations as
explained in the Bank Strategy section below (paragraphs 81-84). A new facility wil be established
so that Moldovan exporters will have access to pre-shipment financing, enabling them to obtain
imported inputs into the production process. An equity fund is being prepared to promote new
private investment in developing Moldova's agro-industrial and light industry potential. This will be
supplemented by lines of credit for private industrial and agricultural enterprises that will support
investments to improve the quality of processing and packaging of Moldova's export products.
Training in marketing and m gement skills is being provided through technical assistance.
Transport obstacles to trade are currenly being studied and investment programs are being developed
to lower the currently high level of transportation costs, which represent a substantial barrier to
increased exports.
PART H. BANK STRATEGY AND THE PROPOSED SMTUCTURAL ADJUSTMEN LOAN
A. Support from the World Bank, DMF, and Other Agencies: the Record So Far
77.   The proposed Structural Adjustnent Loan would be the third World Bank loan to Moldova.
The first loan, an Emergency Drought Recovery Lon (US $26 million, Ln. 3569-MD), was
approved by the Board on March 11, 1993 and financed critical inputs for the 1993 agricultural
season. The second loan was the Rehabilitation Loan (US $60 million, Ln. 3653-MD), approved by
the Board on October 21, 1993. It promoted reforms in privadzation and enterprise governance, the
financial sector, agricultural policy, trade and pricing, and the social sector.



19
78.   The initial focus of both the World Bank and the IMF was to provide speedy assistance in the
face of the severe drought of 1992. The need for emergency imports created urgent financing
requirements which were met through the Bank's Emergency Drought Recovery Loan and the Fund's
CCFF. This prompt response established a good working relationship between Moldova and the
Bretton Woods institutions.
79.   During the sunmer of 1993, agreement was reached on stmctural refom and stablizaion
prograns to be supported by a Rehabilitation Loan and an STF program. A Stand-by Agreement was
put in place in December 1993 covering the period from the last quarter of 1993 to the end of 1994.
A first Consultative Group meeting was held in Paris on October 26, 1993, followed by a pledging
session in Washington on December 15, 1993. Counting assistance from all sources including the
Bank and the Fund, a financing package of approximately $300 million was put together in balance of
payments support for calendar year 1994. The fourth purchase under the Stand-by was released based
on review of the end-June 1994 performance criteria, and the stabilization program supported by the
Fund continues to be on track.
80.   Bank disbursements have been rapid (the Emergency Loan of $26 million is 99 percent
disbursed and closed, while $53 million of the $60 million Rehabilitation Loan has been disbursed),
but other donors have been very slow to follow through on commitments for essentially bueucratic
reasons. This has seriously undermined economic management during 1994; it has also substantially
reduced the authorities' confidence in external support and increased their apprehension of the short-
run costs of further liberalization measures. Additional fast-disbursing finac  assistance from a
wide range of sources will be important to the sustanability of the program; to this end, the Bank
plans to convene a second Consultative Group on Moldova early in 1995.
D. Bank Strate
81.   The Bank's objectives are to support the rapid adjustnent of the Moldovan economy to the
severe extenal shocks recently experienced, including its exposure to a radicaly different set of
relative prices from that obtaining in the past, and to promote a recovery of sustainable growth.
A limited CAS was discussed by the Board when it approved the Rehabilitation Loan in October
1993, under which two cases were envisaged. Moldova's performance conforms with the high case
as set out at that time, involving a rapid transition to a market economy through the sustained
implementation of the reform program, leading to enhanced creditwortiness of the country in the
medium term. In the light of Moldova's rapidly changing circumstances, a full CAS will be
submitted for Board consideration with the first investment operation.
82.   Given the small size of Moldova's domestic market, the strategy to achieve the growth
objectives focuses on export development, at the same time promoting adjustment to the energy price
shock. Moldova's principal exports are based on agriculture and agro-processing, but there have also
been significant industrial exports in the past. While Moldova is already a trading nation, retention
and growth of its existng markets and expansion into new markets will require quanm leaps in
productivity and efficiency, and re-orientation of production to market demand. It will also require
an accelerated shift from public to private ownership and the creation of an enabling environment for
a growing private sector based on the narket. At present, an excessive amount of resources are ded
up in unsaleable products and activides. If sustainable, export-led growth is to be achieved, it will be
necessary to switch resources into activities that are competitive on world markets.



20
83.   The first stage of the Government's economic reform program (supported by the Bank's
Rehabilitation Loan) is creating the environment needed to spur this adjustment towards export
competitiveness and growth. As yet the response in terms of the reallocation of resources is limited.
The program to be supported by the proposed SAL will deepen the systemic reforms needed to
promote such a reallocation of resources and underpin the forthcoming sector operations that are
being prepared in parallel. These operations are designed to promote a recovery in exports and
sustainable growth through a rapid supply response to the framework structural reforms. In addition,
a loan is being planned whose aim is to stimulate viable production for export and build bridges with
foreign financiers, traders. and ultimately investors by mitigating the risk of changes in the policy
envirorunent. Sector operations are being mounted in energy and environment, agriculture, and
private sector development, as explained in paragraph 84 below. These operations fall within the
program described in the limited CAS discussed in October 1993, with the exception of the planned
export promotion operation, which had not been defined at that stage.
84.   A mix of adjustment and investment operations at the sector level are designed to deepen the
reforms and provide the basis for an efficient supply response through reducing energy intensity and
reallocating resources in the industrial, trade and agriculture sectors towards internationally
competitive activities. Given Moldova's energy dependence and the waste and environmental damage
associated with its present patterns of energy distribution and use, an early operation is planned in that
sector. An agricultural operation will help promote the new investment and the market environment
needed to reallocate resources towards efficient production and export markets, while the first private
sector development operation will promote a competitive environment in the enterprise sector,
strengthen financial discipline on the remaining SOEs, and underpin institutional development in the
fimnacial sector. Subsequent operations will address housing needs, provision of improved irrigation
systems in agriculture, and training in labor market skills needed in the new market environment.
C. Program Implemeon and Proposed Tranche Conditions
85.   The Government has set up a Council on Economic Reform to oversee and coordinate the
implementation of the adjustment program. The Council is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister in
charge of Economic Reform and consists of all the Ministers concerned, including those for Finance,
Economy, Privatization, Labor and Social Protection, Agriculture and Industry. The Governor of the
National Bank of Moldova is also a member. Under the Council is a Committee for Economic
Reform chaired by the Deputy Minister of Economy which supervises the implementation of reform
program at working level. Both Council and Committee meet weekly. In addition, there is the
Republican Commission, also chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Economic Reform,
which was set up to conduct the arrears identification and clearance exercise. Under the stewardship
of the Commission, potential enterprise candidates for liquidation and defensive restructuring are
being identified.
86.   Although the Governent administration in Moldova is generally competent, many of the
tasks involved in the implementation of the reform program are unfamiliar and require expertise that
is not available domestically. Technical assistance is already in place to support privatization, the
development of capital markets, the drafting of economic legislation, the introduction of a Treasury
fimction and public investment program, to help develop the financial sector and train personnel, to
assist in enterprise liquidations and asset auctions, and in the social sector. Further technical
assistance will be sought as necessary to support implementation of the reform progran.



21
87.   The following outlines the measures that preceded Board presentation and those identified for
the release of the second tranche. The underlying presumption is the continuation of the required
macroeconomic policies, as reflected in satisfactory performance under the IMF Stand-by Agreemnent.
88.   The following pre4bewd cond*ions for the SAL have been met:
o     all regulations, institutional capacity and the computerized bidding system for
implementing the 1993194 privatization program are in place and functioning, such
that auctions have been held for 50 medium and large enterprises and 100 small scale
enterprises; and a proportionate numier of both large and small-scale enterprises are
being privatized per month so as to permit substantial completion of the full 1993/94
program by end-December 1994;
o     submission to the Parliament in November 1994 of the 1995/96 program, as agreed
with the Bank, specifying the new privatization stegy and the list of SOEs to be
privadzed;
HIardenin the Budaet Constraint:
o     establishment of the institutional framework and initiation of the liquidation
procedures of five loss-making SOEs;
o     adoption of restructuring plans satisfactory to the Bank for another five highly
indebted SOEs and the start of implementation. These plans include the privatization
of production lines, the sale of assets and other measures to impose financial
discipline, and exclude use of budget resources;
o     elimination of the regulations requinng prior approvals from the Ministry of
Privatization and State Property and the Branch Ministry concerned for SOE asset
sales through publicly announced auctions and tenders;
o     introduction of mechanisms to deal with the arrears to energy utilides, including
cutting services to non-paying customers. Payment conditions and criteria for
termination of services are bing publicized;
o     the introduction by the NBM of regulations governing the classification and
provisioning of the loan portfolio for commercial banks, as well as the formulation of
regulations satisfatory to the Banlk governing the definition of allowable capital for
commercial banks;
Creating a CQomnetitie Environent:
o     (i) inclusion of the privaization of the commercial enterprises belonging to Cereale
and Fertilitatea in the 1995/96 privatization program; together with (ii) the preparation
of a privatization plan assuring the separation of operating units and the development
of competitive domestic markets boti regionally and nationally;



22
o     submission to Parliament in November 1994 of legislation removing margin controls
in January 1995, with the exception of a small group of socially important
commodities, from which margin controls would be removed by mid-1995;
Providing Social Protection within Fiscal Constraints:
o     de-linking of increases in all pension and social assistance benefits from the minimum
wage. Adjustment of benefits for all qualifying beneficiaries by identical nominal
increases based on the changes in prices in the previous period; the new system was
announced in November 1994, to become effective on January 1, 1995. The level of
future increases is to be consistent with the overall fiscal adjustment. The earnings-
related component of pension income would thus be frozen; working pensioners would
not qualify for these price compensations.
89.   Proposed second truche condidons are as follows:
Ownership change:
o     achievement of satisfactory progress in implementing the 1995/96 privatization
program, as evidenced by the establishment of the regulatory framework and
insdtutional capacity, followed by monthly auctions and advertisements for auction, in
accordance with a timetable agreed with the Bank;
Hardenine the Budget Constraint:
o     achievement of satisfactory progress in the sales of assets of seven enterprises under
liquidation;
o     initiation of the managerial, organizational and ownership restrucmtng for a further
group of 10-20 highly indebted SOEs. The restructuring should include the
privatization of production lines, the sale of assets and other measures to impose
financial discipline without injection of new capital from the budget;
o     introduction of regulations on simple risk-weighted capital standards for commercial
banks, as part of a timetable for moving into line with innational practice;
reinstatemt of the regulation limiting loans to any shareholder of a bank who owns
or controls 10 percent or more of the bank's total shares to an amount not exceeding
20 percent of the bank's capital (with the exception of five named utilities as agreed
with the Bank); and enforcement of the requirement that all commercial banks make
provision for possible loan losses on loans extended after Mach 1, 1995;
CrEat   a Cometitive Enviromnent:
o     (i) revision of the reognization and privatization plans for Cereale and Fertilitatea in
a mamer satisfactory to the Bank, with the aim of creating competitive markets and a
start to implementation of these privatization plans in conformity with a tmetable that
will ensure completion by end-1996; this plan to include early disposal of excess
storage, transport and milling capacity, either tbrough sale or medium term lease



23
arrangements; (ii) transfer of their regulatory functions to the Ministry of Agriculture
and other Ministries as appropriate; and (iii) de-monopolization of the traditional
markets of Cereale and Fertilitatea, including through competitive procurement of the
State grain reserve;
o     timely implementation of the timetable as agreed with the Bank for reducing the
maximum import tariff to 20 percent by end-November 1995;
providing Social Proeconin Fisal Canstrains
O     submission to Parliament of the phased increase in the pension age by six months per
year for men and six months per year for women beginning in mid-1995, until the
pension age reaches 65 for men and 60 for women; the increase to occur in all
pension categories including early retirement and special pensions;
o     implementation of the new system of increases in pensions and benefits to apply
during 1995 and following years, whereby benefit increases are de-linked from the
minimum wage and all qualifying beneficiaries receive a flat nominal increase based
upon the price changes in the previous period and the overall fiscal context.
D. Ie Fnacng Packge
90.   Loan amount and borrower. The proposed loan of US $60 million would be made to the
Republic of Moldova represented by the Ministry of Finance as Borrower. Disbursements would be
made to the National Bank of Moldova (NBM) and an account of the Ministry of Finance at the NBM
will be credited with the leu equivalent at the official exchange rate of the day"; the Govermnent will
thereby receive non-inflationary budget support. The foreign exchange proceeds of the loan will be
sold by the NBM or will be held in reserves, in accordance with the objectives of monetary policy.6
The loan would have a maturity of 20 years including a five year grace perod, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
91. Project manazement. Overall coordination of project activities and general loan
administtion will be the responsibility of the Department of Foreign Economic Relations in the
Ministry of Economy. The Director of this Departent, as project manager, will be responsible for
preparng applications for disbursement, mninSing project accounts and arranging for their timely
audit, and monitoring overall loan implem on. On the basis of the information from the various
agencies involved in the implementation of this loan, the project manager will prepare the Borrower's
contribution to the Project Completion Report within six months of the closing date. The project
manager has obtained experience in this work in her function as head of the Project Coordination Unit
for the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan.
I/ The oficia exchagetate is defied in Moldova astbe rate demined at the atest auction in the Chisinau linrbank
oEign Cureny Exchange (CIFCB).
1 The NBM sels foreign exchange to banks on behalf of their cliens (houh the CICE aucton) and to the Govermen
for hs own needs (at die ate esablised in the laest auction).



24
92.   Procurement. Procurement under the project will follow standard procedures as spelled out in
the "Guidelines for Procment under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" and "Guidelines on Use of
Consultarus by World Bank Borrowers and by te World Bank as Executing Agency." The threshold
for ICB would be $1 million for this loan; the choice of threshold was determined by (i) the
adjustment nature of the credit; (ii) the Bank's evolving experience of comunercial and public
procurement practces in Moldova, gained through experience with two previous loans and through
numerous enterprise visits, which revealed that commercial practices are generally in line with the
requirement that enterprises, in both public and private sectors, obtain multiple quotations from
multiple countries; (iii) the technical assistance in public procurent to be provided by the Bank.7
Thus under these procedures, procurement for imports under $1 million will be done directly by
importers using their normal practices. Simplified ICB procedures (using Bank standard bidding
documents, as reviewed with the authorities during appraisal) would be followed for all contracts for
$1 million or greater and would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Subject to the Bank's prior
approval, commonly traded commodities would be procured through organized international
commodities markets or other channels of competitive procurement. T'he Bank plans a strategy paper
on procurement, to be followed by a CPAR in FY 96.
93.   Eligible expenditures. The credit would provide quick-disbursing balance of payments
support based on evidence that imports of eligible goods had taken place. Non-eligible imports would
include goods on the World Bank's standard negative list; and goods financed by other donors.
Retroactive financing will be available for imports made or paid not more than four months before
loan signing up to a maximum of $12 million, equivalent to 20 percent of the amount of the loan.
Pre-shipment inspection will not be required: the low or zero level of import tariffs for the bulk of
imports will limit the probability of tax evasion through under-invoicing, while macroeconomic
stabilization has dminished the incentives for capital flight through over-invoicing. It is proposed
that a portion of the loan proceeds could be used to finance procuemwa    of technical assistance
required for implementation of the program.
94.   Disbursme. The financing will be provided on the basis of (i) statements of expenditure,
prepared in accordance with the Bank's simplified docmuntation requirem   for adjustment
operations (i.e., based on customs certificate) for contracts valued at less than US $1 million; (ii) full
documentation (i.e., contract, supplier's invoice, evidence of shipment, customs certificate, and
evidence of payment) for contracts of US $1 million and above, provided there are supporting
documents that the contracts were awarded on the basis of an open and competitive process; and (iii)
a statement by the Government that the imports presented for financing from the Structural
Adjustment Loan have not been financed by another loan or grant. Contracts valued at less than
US $5,000 will not be eligible for financing. The project manager will prepare the withdrawal
applications and will keep photocopies of the customs documents on which the applications are based.
The original customs documents will be retined by the Customs Department until three years after
the closing of the project, and will be made available to Bank supervision missions and to the
auditors, as requested.
95.   Renorting. Accounting. and Auditinu. The project manager will maintain all project accounts,
which will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank in accordance
7y An Instiudonal Development Fund grant has been approved for the developmen of public pr_ legisation and
an appropriate instiional fiamework in Moldova.



25
with the Bank's guidelines on auditing and financial reportng. Audit reports will be submitted to the
World Bank not later than six months after the close of each year or the date of final disbursement.
The project manager will also prepare monthly progress reports detailing the status of atl
disbursement requests.
96.   Closing date. The loan is expected to be fiuly disbursed within a short period of time after
release of the second tranche. It is therefore proposed that the closing date of the loan be June 30,
1996.
97.   Enviro=neal categor. The project will have no direct impact on the environment. For the
purposes of OD 4.01, it has been placed in Category U which does not require an enviromental
assessment.
E. Benefits and Risks
98.   Benefits. The proposed operation provides the oppormuity to support the development of a
competive, private market-based economy that promotes the efficient allocation of resources for
economic growth and improvement in living standards. The operation is focused on key measures
needed to induce a quick response in the real econowmy to macroeconomic tightening and relative pnce
movements. Such a response is essential in order to reverse the output decline and induce structural
change.
99.   Risks. There is tension within the Government over the depth and speed of a number of
reforms. It is possible that the Government may not sustain political commitment to the program,
especially in view of the political sensitivity of specific reforms involving privatzation and financial
discipline on SOEs. Against this, the Government was willing last year to launch the stabilization and
adjustment programs shortly before a Parliamentary election, and the same party has been returned to
power, now with a Parliamentary majority; on balance, however, this risk continues to be significant.
100. A further risk arises from the disjunction between progress on stabilization and lagging
structural adjustment, which is producing negative effects through output falls and wage arrears.
Timely implementation of the proposed operation would help to relieve the tension between
stabilization and adjustment by promoting the reallocation of resources necessary to provide economic
growth.
101.  Although the Govenment adminisation is staffed with well-educated and competent people,
many of the tasks required by the reform program are unfamiliar and require expertise that is not yet
available in Moldova. There is trefore a risk that capacity within the ainstrtion may not be
strengtheed rapidly enough to permit timely Implemation of the program. Technical assistance is
being mobilized against this risk.
102. If Moldova cannot mobilize enough fast-disbursing balance of payments assistance in the near
term, lack of access to foreign exchange will force a lower level of imports, which, in Moldova's
highly trde-dependent production structre, would aggravate the fal in economic activity and living
stanrds. It would also threaten the reduction in inflation so far achieved by the authorities. The
Bank plans to convene a Consultative Group meeting in Jamny 1995 with the objective of mobilizing
needed fast-disbursing assistance.



26
103.  A fiuther risk to the program is posed by protecdonism in Western Europe and other
developed country markets. Moldova bas had modest success in penetrating the EU market; its
export prospects and creditworthiness will be linked to continuing access. Prolonged delay in
economic recovery in the rest of the FSU, particularly Russia and Ukraine, would also pose risk to
the progran.
PART mI. RECOMMEATION
104. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and reconmmend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
November 15, 1994
Attachments



REPUBIC OF MOLDOVA
SRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
lietable of Key Procesing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:                   7 mondhs
(b)    Prepared by:                             Govemnent. with the assistance of IBRD staff
and consultants
(c)    Preaation Mission                        April 23 - May 7, 1994
Pre-appraisal Mission                    June 25 - July 13, 1994
Appraisal Mission                        September 10 - 17, 1994
(d)    Negotiations:                            November 7 - 11, 1994
(e)    Planned date of effectiveness:           December 20, 1994
(f)    List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:         Not applicable



ANNEX I
Tabe 1: Key Economic Indicators
I3            1994    19  19   19       19      1999   2000              M     203    2004    2006
Summa  Indicatoes l Groewth Raes)
Gross Domestic Product            -14.0   -6.0      0.5     2.0     3.5     5.0    5.0    5.5       6.0     6.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Private onsumptin                -10.0   -1.8   -3.8   -1.3        1.9    2.8      1.5    2.0      .9      3.9    1.1      2.4     2.3
Annual InfatIon                   788.5  345.1    19.6    10.0      6.0    ;3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0      3.0
Exports of G&NF8                    na      5.0     4.8    5.6    6.1       6.3     6.3    6.4      6.5     6.5     6.6     6.7    6.8
Imports of G&NFS                    na      4.0     1.0    1.5    3.1       3.7    3.7    3.9       4.2     4.2    3.8      3.8    3.8
1993    1994   t995    1986    1997    199B    199    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2006
_atlon amd Fiscac counts (> of GOP)
Investment                          7.0     8.7    11.0    13.0    15.0    16.0    17.0   18.0    18.0    18.0    19.0    19.0    19.0
Govemment Investment                3.0     4.0    4.1     4.0      4.0    3.8      3.5    3.5     3.5    3.5       3.5    3.5    3.5
Gross Domestic Savlnas              -4.5   -6.7   -3.1      0.3     3.5     5.8    8.1    10.4    11.4    12.4    14.5    15.6   16.8
Budet Revenues                      13.5    15.0    16.0   16.5    17.5    184    19.3   20.2   20.1    20.1    20.0    20.0    19.9
Budget Expenditures                26.0    21.8    20.6    13.9    17.9   19.2   20.1    21.2    21.2    20.9    20.9   20.9    20.9
Fscal Deficit                     -12.5   -6.8   -4.6    -2.4   -0.3   -0.9   -0.8   -1.0   -1.1    -0.8   -0.9   -0.9   -1.0
Expots                              31.4    28.7    30.5   32.0   33.1    34.0    34.8   35.5    35.6    35.7    36.4   37.1    37.8
Import                             42.9   44.1    44.6   44.7   44.6    44.2   43.7   4&1    42.2    41.3    40.9    40.5   40.0
Resource Balance                  -11.5   -15.4  -14.1   -12.7  -11.5   -10.2   -89    -7.6   -6.6   -5.6   -4.5   -3.4   -2.2
Current Account Balance           -11.2  -15.4  -14.4  -13.8  -13.4  -12.9  -12.3  -11.4  -10.8  -10.1    -9.3   -84    -7.4



ANNEX I
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
19      1994   jQ%      1       1997    1998    1999    2000   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Total Debt Outstanding and         154.0   550.4   837.6  1093.3  1340.4  1604.3  1850.5  2027.4  2182.2  2343.8  2499.7   2650  2779.9
DOsursed (US$m)
Net Disbursements (US$m)          200.2   315.3   287.2   268.1   261.6   253.4   231.6   175.0   154.9   161.5   155.9   150.3   129.9
Tota DOebt Service (MS) (JS$m)      5.0    49.4    75.0   95.1   124.3   156.8   189.6   223.0   276.7   334.0   384.8  445.2   466.5
Debt and Debt Service Indicators (%)
Total DebtlGDP                      10.8   26.2    38.9    48.6    56.0    62.3   66.7    67.5    66.7    65.9    65.5    64.7    63.3
Total Debt/Eports                  34.3    91.5   127.6   152.0   169.3   183.5   191.7   190.2   187.6   184.5   180.0   174.5   167.2
TotalDebtServceEWxports             1.1     8.2    11.4    13.2    15.7    17.9    19.6   20.9    23.8    26.3    27.7    29.3   28.1
Total Interest/GDP                  0.3     0.9      1.8    2.5    3.1      3.7    4.2    4.4       4.5     4.4      4.4    4.5     4.4
Total InterestExports                1.1    3.1    5.6      7.8    9.5    10.9    11.9    12.5    12.5    12.4    12.2   12.1    11.8
IBRD Exposure Indicators:
IBRD Debt/GDP                       2.5    4.1      6.8     9.2    11.1    12.9   14.2    15.4    15.8    15.8    15.7    15.3    14.6
IBRD Debt ServicelExports           0.3     0.7     1.3    1.8    2.2    2.8    3.3    3.6    4.1           4.6    4.9      4.9    4.9
IBRD Debt ServlcwTDS               26.3     8.9    11.3    13.4    13.8    15.7    17.0    17.0    17.3    17.5    17.6    16.7    16.0



ANNEX I
Table 3: Balance ot Payments
(US$m)
O       1994     NS9   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Exports of GNFS 1/                 449.3   601.5   656.4   719.2   791.8   874.2   966.2  1065.8  1163.3  1270.5  1388.7  1518.9  1662.4
Imports of GNFS 11                 613.2   925.2   959.9  1004.1  1066.1  1137.4  1212.4  1294.2  1379.4  1469.7  1560.3  1656.6  1759.0
Net Factor Income                  -11.7   -34.7   -42.1   -58.2   -80.6  -103.9  -128.5  -152.3  -174.8  -197.6  -221.2  -247.6  -269.7
Current Tranders                    15.3    35.6    36.1    33.2    34.1    35.0    3S.9    36.8    37.7    38.6    39.5    40.4    41.4
Current Account Balance           -160.3  -322.8  -309.5  -310.0  -320.8  -332.1  -339.8  -343.8  -353.2  -358.3  -353.3  -344.9  -325.0
Foreign Direct Investment           14.0    23.0    60.0    80.0   100.0   120.0   150.0   200.0   230.0   230.0   230.0   230.0   230.0
Long Term Loans (net)              200.2   315.3   287.2   268.1   261.6   253.4   231.6   175.0   154.9   161.5   155.9   150.3   129.9
olf. World Bank Net Disbursements 21    36.2    49.8    60.0    60.0    59.2    66.4    61.2    68.6    55.1    45.9    38.3    25.3    13.2
IMF Net Purchases                89.6    53.3    14.8    -7.2   -20.8   -48.4   -36.5   -12.5   -10.7   -10.7       0.0     0.0     0.0
Change In Reserves                 -45.6   -28.5   -37.7   -38.0   -40.8   -41.3   -41.8   -31.2   -31.7   -33.3   -32.6   -35.4   -35.0
Memorandum Items
Nominal Exchange rate (LeW/US$)      1.5     4.2      5.0     5.3     5.5     5.5     5.6      5.6     5.6     5.6     5.7      5.7     5.7
sal Exchange Rate                  100.0    64.1    64.1    64.1    64.1    64.1    64.1    64.1    64.1    64.1    64.1    64.1    64.1
Terms ofTrade Index                100.0    84,9    85.4    86.0    86.7    87.5    88.3    89.3    89.5    89.7    89.9    90.1    90.3
It Expot an Impors for t89 are basd on prelnimery data from the IMF. The Inrease Is due to the movement to world pricing of Impods, as well as to trade liberalization and under-reporting in 1993
21 IBRD proposed endin proram for FYOS59 toger with aumed disbursements tereaftr.



GUVERNUL REPUBLICII MOLDOVA
The GOVERNMENT of the REPUBLIC of MOLDOVA
Index nr.                                                      A           992
We hereby confirm that the attached Letter of Development Policy conveys
the program of the Government of Moldova as agreed with the negotiating team
of the World Bank.
Prime Minister
Helen Sutch
Task Manager
27o33. Cuisiniu, Casa Guvernulul Tel. 233346: Fax 242696; Telex 163151



ANNEX 2
November 11, 1994
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMElNT POIdCY
Preamble
1.    The Government has made significant progress towards the establishment of a market economy.
Macroeconomic conditions were unstable in 1992 and 1993, but, since late 1993, the Government has
implemented a successful stabilization program. Already some positive results are evident. Inflation has
come down sharply, and the newly-introduced currency is stable. The Govermment has now succeeded
in creatng a macroeconomic enviroment in which relative price signals are clearer and the opportuity
costs of established patterns of resource use are more apparent. Stabilization has starkly revealed the
magnitude of the structural adjustment problems facing Moldova as a result of the collapse of markets
in the former Soviet Union and the massive deterioration of the terms of trade. Output has fallen
drstically, and in 1994, the country is suffering a firther decline in its markets. h has also been hit by
a series of natural disasters including a severe drought, hurricanes, and floods, which have caused loss
of life and serious losses of crops, herds and infrastructure. Losses are estimated at 1.5 billionlei, nearly
equivalent to Govemmen's annual expenditure.
2.    The Government intends to implement a wide-ranging program of structural adjustment measures
to restore economic growth. The Government beieves that its success in stabilition canot be sustaned
without deep strucural reform. The thrust of these reforms is to develop a competitve, market-based
economy that promotes the efficient allocation of resources for economic growth and improvement in
living standards.
Stabilization program
3.    In parallel with the inroduction of its new currency, the leu, in November 1993, the authorities
also put in place firm monetary policies and sharply reduced the fiscal deficit. Preferential credit was
eliminated and refinancing auctions for central bank credit established. Directed credit is now only 20
percent of total central bank refinancing and will be reduced further. The exchange rate of the leu is
freely determined at regular interbank foreign exchange auctions.
Strucual reform measures already taken
4.    The Government has implemented a number of structural reforms envisaged in its Memorandum
of Economic Reform Policies, which was prepared in conjunction with a Rehabilitation Loan from the
World Bank. Trade and prices have been substantially liberazed, with the removal of quotas and
licenses on most exports, the elimination of export taxes, the establishment of a new import taiff and
the reduction of price controls, margin controls and subsidies. The implementation of the 1993/94
Privatization Program was slower than intended up until April 1994, but implementation has now been
accelerated. Many elemens of the legal framework for private sector developmen are in place. In



-2-
agriculture, state and collective farms are being transformed into joint stock companies, which allows
individuals to take their shares and establish private fanns, a process which is now gathering pace.
5.    Despite these measures, the response from the real economy has not matched progress towards
macroeconomic stabilization. It is now urgent to stimulate such a response if the progress already made
is not to be overwhelmed by the loss of output and growing poverty. Some industrial enterprises have
started adjustment, pointing the way for the test of the sector. This letter outlines the main measures that
the Government will take to promote growth and employment in the economy. The Government
recognizes that it cannot restore growth by direct intervemion in economic relationships, and must instead
concentrate its efforts on establishing a clear and fair legal frainework for economic activity for producers
and consumers, buyers and sellers, and debtors and creditors. At the same time, it is important to
safeguard the welfare of the most vulnerable citizens.
The Government's measures cover seven main areas, as follows: privatization; enterprise financial
discipline; competition policy; banking system; budget revenue and expenditure; social protection; and
agricultural restructuring and privatization.
Concrete measures are outlined below.
Privatization and Enterprise Financial Discipline
Privatization
6.    The Government is intensifying its efforts to overcome the delays in the privatization program
and accelerate the transition to a market economy. Based on experience with the pilot auctions of
medium to large enterprises, the Government has streamlined the regulations and put in place the
mechanisms necessary to enable substantial completion of the full 1993/94 prvation program on time.
Auctions were held for 154 medium and large enterprises and the privatization of 359 small scale
enterprises was completed or advertized by November 5, 1994. 304 medium and large, and 150 small
enterprises will have been auctioned or advertized for auction by December 5, 1994. All the enterprises
listed in the updated program will have been auctioned, or announced for auction, by the end of
December 1994.
7.    In order to complete this progrmn on time, the Government has set deadlines for all companies
approved for privatization to complete the necess&.y preparations and is monitoring the progress made
to secure a steady supply of enterprises for mass auctions. All ministries will cooperate in this process,
and wil direct enterprises subordinated to them to prepare their own privatization plans. Preparation
work is also being conted out to private sector firms.
8.    The Government has included most of the renuinig enterprises, tha were not included in the
1993/94 privatization program, in the 1995/96 privadzation program. The 1995/96 draft program and
strategy were agreed with the Bank, and the final version of the program specifying the new privatization
tracks and the list of SOEs will be submitted to the Parliament by end November 1994. To improve
efficiency, the new program will provide for trade sales, cash auctions, and liquidations, and will promote
the participation of local and foreign investors in privatization. To ensure speed, compensate- for lack
of capital, and mainuain the Moldovan citzens' support for privatization, the new program will also
contain an updated mass privatization component. The participants in mass privatization will use cash
and indexed savings or other type of voucher instament. Shares will be offered for public subscripuon



-3-
through the national auction system, and share prices will be adjusted according to supply and demand.
Corporate Governance
9.    The Government is striving to corporatize most of the SOEs that are to remain in the public
sector. For corporatized SOEs, the Goverunent will create Boards of Directors (BoDs) in line with the
law on joint stock companies. To increase the efficiency of the new governance structure, the
Government is providing full support to a training program, funded partially through tecnical assistance,
and aimed at future members of the BoDs and the staff from the Govermnent who are responsible for
monitoring SOE perfonmance. The Govermnent will intensify its efforts to develop a monitoring and
performance evaluation system for SOEs. To facilitate adjustmern in the economy, SOEs were permitted
to sell assets in the market, starting in March 1994. To accelerate this process, the Goverment has
removed the regulations requiring prior approvals for such asset sales through publicly announced
auctions and tenders from the Ministry of Privatization and State Property and the Branch Ministry
concemed. This will strengthen the market for assets as well as contribute to faster start-ups by small
and medium enterprises.
Financial Discipline
10.   The destruction of traditional commercial relations and lack of payment by economic agents
outside the country, together with lack of adjustment at the enterprise level, has resulted in an explosion
of inter-enterprise arrears and slack financial discipline. To improve fincial discipline, a Republican
Commission (RC) was established under the authority of the Vice-Prime Minister in charge of Economic
Reform. The Commission has analyzed enterprises with large debts. Work followed within Ministries
to identify enterprises that are non-viable. Regulations to facilitate liquidations have been adopted by the
Government, and five enterprises were identified for pilot liquidations. A new division to handle these
liquidations has been created within the Ministry of Economy. By October, 1994, the institutional
framework was in place, and by November, 1994, liquidation procedures had been initiated for five loss-
making SOEs. Satisfactory progress with asset sales will take place in early 1995. Further liquidations
of non-viable SOEs are envisaged during 1995 as enterprise adjustment proceeds and under the
appropriate track of the 1995/96 privatization program. If appropriate, there will be no barrier to the
inclusion of an enterprise listed in the 1993/94 or 1995/96 privatization programs in either the
resuctrg or liquidation progrms.
11.   The Government intends to condnue these efforts and to focus on: (i) the implementation of the
process of bankruptcy and liquidation for the loss-making SOEs and (ii) strengthening financial discipline
throughout the economy. Under (i), the Govemment as owner is forcing enterprises to sell assets to clear
debts. It will subject serious loss-makers to strict limits on future borrowing and the worst lors-makers
will not have access to new funds. The Government will also require organizational changes, including
breaking up SOEs into smaller units, without injecting new capital from the state budget. Restructuring
plans for an initial five enterprises with large debts were adopted in early November 1994 and will be
adopted for a further group of 10-20 enterprises by early 1995.
12.   To achieve (ii), the rights of all creditors are being clarified and publicized. These rights include
the ability to start bankruptcy procedures, enforce collateral agreements on all economic agents including
SOEs, and negotiate settlements.



13.   Mechanisms have been introduced to reduce the arrears to the energy utilities, including (i) fines
in excess of conmnercial interest rates for late payment, and (ii) ternination of service for those
enterprises and budgetary organizations for which no method of payment can be found. In order to avoid
excessive fines, as of January 1, 1995, fines will be brought down to a level marginally exceeding that
of prevailing interest rates. The Government has appointed Republican and district commissions which
will review candidates for termination of energy service, exempting those which are essential for social
welfare (e.g., hospitals). During this review period, all organizations which are in arrears to the energy
enterprises will have their supply of energy reduced to 70% of previous levels. Further steps will be
taken by March 1995 to introduce more comprehensive regulatory mechanisms to oversee payment
problems, tariff setting, and termination of service; technical assistance will be sought to draw upon
regulatory experience of other countries and to design a more comprehensive regulatory system in
Moldova, for implementation in 1995.
14.   The Government is continuing to monitor the large debtors and large loss-making SOEs as well
as the progress on the implementation of the streamlining and liquidation programs.
15.   The Government is seeking technical assistance for transfer of restrucring skills and has already
obtained technical assistance in developing liquidation procedures and auctions. Technical assistance is
also needed to reform accounting methods used by enterprises so that enterprise performance, ability to
meet obligations to the budget, and creditworthine  can be accurately determined.
The Competitive Environment
16.   During 1993 and early 1994 a number of restrictions on trade, pricing and foreign exchange
allocation were eliminated or reduced. This process was deepened by the implementation of the following
measures: (i) submission of legislation to Parliament to remove margin controls with the exception of a
short list of essental goods, from which margin controls will be removed by mid-1995; (ii) removal of
minimum reference prices for exports; (iii) application of MFN tariff rates to all countries of origin
(except where free trade agreements apply); and (iv) removal of the prohibition on barter exports to
convertible currency countries and abolition of the import tariff surcharge on barter.
17.   The Government and the National Bank will now take further steps to consolidate this
liberalization. The objective of increasing productive efficiency and technological innovation through
extemal competidon will be pursued by reducing remaining high import tariffs to a maxim=   of 50%
on January 1, 1995 and further to 30% on April 1, 1995 and to 20% on December 1, 1995. For a small
number of luxury goods, tariffs will remain slightly higher for the purpose of coordination with tariffs
in other CIS countries. Duty exemptions for foreign investors and small businesses will be minimized
to avoid fiscal revenue losses and to provide equal treatment for all forms of business. Foreign currey
and, wherever possible, goods supplied by external credits will be auctioned, and all credit to the
distributors or recipients of those goods will be on market terms. The Nadonal Bank will abolish the
surrender requirement for foreign exchange by December 1994.
18.   Monopoly wiUl be addressed by a combination of meaa.res to open domestic markets to foreign
competition and to dismane inefficient large conglomerates. Policies to curtil the role of Government
and align domestc and international markets are being implemented.
19.   State procurement will be put on a competitive basis, in order to minimize the distortions it
imposes. Suppliers will be invited to tender for filfillment of the state's requiemen  (technical



-5-
assistance from the World Bank is being utilized to design such a system). No preferences in allocation
of inputs or credit will be given to those who supply state needs, in order not to undermine their
competitors. Competition will be allowed in all products where the state is involved in supplying inputs
or marketing outputs.
Strengthening the Banking System and Financial D2iscipline
20.   Now that credit growth is being brought under control, it is essential that available credit
promotes the greatest possible economic growth. An excessive share of credit has been allocated to
enterprises which have not adjusted to the new economic environment. A significant proportion of this
debt is non-performing, which jeopardizes the safety and stability of the financial system. Some banks
are potentially unsafe, with large loans to a small number of large enterprises. At present, the power of
the NBM to deal with prudential problems is limited. To improve this situation, the NBM intends to
introduce a new stronger Banking Law to Parliament in the first half of 1995. By acting quickly to deal
with these problems, the authorities will strengthen the security of the banking system, and, at the same
time, ensure that more credit is available for profitable activities, including exports.
21.   In order to strengthen the information needed to evaluate credit, the NBM plans a program to
upgrade accounting standards. To achieve more accurate reporting of the financial position of the banks,
to discourage bankls from extending high-risk loans, and to promote sound lending practices, the
following actions have been taken:
o   the NBM has established regulations governing the evaluation of the risk in the commercial
banks' portfolios and the establishmnent of 'risk funds" to cover expected losses;
22.   The Government and the NBM intend to continue this program with the following actions:
o the NBM will establish regulations clarifying allowable capital and defining the categories
that will be included in core and supplementary capital by the end of 1994. To this end,
a draft of the regulations will be sent to the Bank by November 30, 1994.
o   to provide training for the conmmercial banks in the procedures for classification and
provisioning, and to enforce the requirement that all commercial banks will provide risk
funds against possible loan losses; provision of risk funds is to be phased in for new loans
from March 1, 1995 onwards.
o   to establish simple risk-weighted capital standards, and a timetable to phase in enforcement
of the capital standard;
o   to reduce the risk arising from connected lending, the NBM will reinstate the regulation
limiting bank loans to any shareholder of a bank who owns or cortrols 10 percent or more
of the bank's total shares to an amount not exceeding 20 percent of the bank's capital (with
the exception of five named utilites);
o   the NBM intends to enforce the current lending limnit of 30 percent of bank capital to single
botrowers and encourage the use of syndicated loans; in the case of the five large utilities,
an exception to this rule will be permitted and a timetable of steps towards enforcement will
be set out;



-6--
o   in order to mobilize more deposits, the NBM will relax the K2 restriction (limiting deposits
to the level of the capital base) for banks that are correctly monitoring their risk by
classifying the portfolio and making progress towards establishing sufficient risk funds to
cover the level of risk.
23.   In order to increase the amount of credit available, the authorities intend to reestablish the habit
of household savings in domestic currency in all Moldovan banking institutions. At present the Savings
Bank is the primary depository institution for household savings. To decrease the risk exposure of the
Savings Bank, and increase the safety of household deposits, the NBM has recommended that the Savings
Bank confine its lending to individuals, small businesses, and commercial banks.
24.   New regulations for provisioning against bad debts and increasing capital standards will raise the
operating costs of banks. Audits of international standard will become normal practice in the banking
system. By the fall of 1994, the initial results of the audits of the four largest banks were available. The
Govermnent is using that information to study and rationalize the taxation of banks during 1995. Under
the current system, provisions for risk funds are not tax exempt. By February 1, 1995, the Government
will submit to the Parliament a proposal to change bank taxation. In particular, risk funds against
expected loan losses will be made allowable against tax for all commercial banks, starting in April 1995,
and proceeding thereafter according to the schedule developed with the Bank.
25.   The Government and the NBM will seek technical assistance so as to train financial institutions
to exercise their rights under the collateral and bankruptcy laws, including against SOEs. The NBM will
also encourage use of the collateral and bankruptcy laws and foster the establishment of problem loan
work-ut teams by the banks. Training in international accounting practices is also a high priority in
the banking system.
Budeet Revenue and Expenditure
26.   The arrears identification and netting exercise undertaken in June 1994 revealed that the Budget
is a major creditor to the economy. At the same time, the budget also carries arrears to the economy.
The Goverment is taking immediate action to control tax arrears and all forms of implicit and explicit
lending to economic agents from the budget. This is essential if resources are to be available for the
highest priorities - social sector spending and maintenance of infrastructure, and to contain credit to
Government within limits consistent with stabilization objectives.
27.   The problem of indebtedness of agricultural public enterprises which received external finance
is being addressed as part of the process of restructuring those enterprises. The indebtedness and need
for new credit for public utilities is being addressed under a separate program. In support of this
program, technical assistance for energy enterprises is being received from the World Bank.
28.   The Government's immediate priority in taxation is to improve revenue collection. Exemptions
are being reduced and will be kept to a minimum, in order to avoid contraction of the tax base. The
Government recognizes that some of the substantial arrears in profit tax are related to inappropriate
accounting procedures for allowing for depreciation and inflation in calculating profits. The share of
revenue recovered from profit taxes is expected to fall as administration of VAT and personal income tax
improves. By improving the capacity of the tax inspectorate, the Government will ensure that its actions
to improve collection rates address the use of cash for transactions and do not discourage economic agents
from using the banking system.



-7-
Social Drotection and labor market issues
29.   The Govennment is making the difficult transition from general subsidization of consumer
products to targeted compensation. Events of the last two years have shown that increases in the
minimum wage, as with any indexation mechanism which inflates all nominal incomres, can only increase
the general level of wages and prices, bringing no real improvement for any group. The Government
is now moving to a system whereby price compensation payments will be used to increase pensions and
other benefits as the general level of prices increases, in order to secure the living standards of pensioners
and other vulnerable groups. The new system was amounced on November 9, 1994, for imtplementation
on Januaty 1, 1995. Adjustments subsequent to January 1, 1995, will be implemented in accordance with
the new system. The Government will take fiscal capacity into account when determining the size and
timing of adjustments.
30.   Pensioners' incomes will henceforth be increased by flat nominal amounts and the component of
penioners' incomes based on previous earnings and years of work will thus be frozen. Working
pensioners will not be eligible for price compensation payments. Along with the phased increase in the
pension age, these measures will help to improve the fmancial situation of the Social Fund. However,
the relative financial contribution of the State budget and the Social Fund will need to be kept under
regular review. In the longer term, the Government intends to reduce the rate of payroll tax on
enteprises, in order to promote employment. As a first step, the Government will propose to Parliament
a reduction as from lanuary 1, 1995, in the rate of payroll tax on economic agents from 38 percent to
35 percent.
31.   The Government recognizes that because of demographic, fiscal, and social pressures, it will be
necessary to act quickly to raise the normal pension age. The Government will therefore submit to
Parliament by the beginning of 1995 legislation to raise the pension age by a minmum of six months per
year for men and six months per year for women begiming in mid-1995. All pension categories,
including early retirement and special pensions, will be included. This process will continue until the
normal pension age of 65 is reached for men and 60 for women. In conjunction with this, the
Governnem will conduct an intenwive public information campaign on the merits of the legislation
immediately following the submission of the legislation to Parliament.
32.   Wages outside the budget sector are deregulated. Before the freezing of the minimum wage,
minimum wage increases tended to pass through into wages in the economy as a whole. In the budgetary
sector, wages have been determined by a set of coefficients applied to the minimum wage. The
Government intends to review this system with the aim of moving away from the mnimm wage as a
basis for wage fixing and examining the possibilities for developing a system of budget sector wage fixing
which is based on labor market conditions in the economy. This should enable savings to be made in the
budget sector wage bill and will assist in introducing more flexibility into wage determiation throughout
the economy. At the same time, it will remove any need to increase minimum wage levels in future.
33.   The level of recorded unemployment remains low, although the true level of unemployment is
much higher. The Government intends that the system for assisting the unemloyed will play a more
active role in manging the labor market consequences of restructuring the economy. In cases of
bankruptcy or liquidation, where the enterprise has insufficient resources to pay severance pay, the cost
of severance pay will be nmet from the resources of the Unemployment Fund. The Govemment wilt
demonstrate implementation of the new system beginiWng in 1995. The levels of severance pay and
unemployment benefit will be adjusted to create a unified scale of assistance. The amount payable will



-8
decline gradually as the duration of unemployment lenthens. The duration for which benefit is payable
and the scale of rates will be kept under review in the light of the financial position of the Uneloyment
Fund.
AgrclW4ra  P,d    and ka
34.   The Goveent views agriculture as a sector of opportunity. Progress has been mad in
developing a policy for agricultue that is consistent with a market econmy. The land law of 1991 b
being implemented. There are almost 30,000 opetating private farms, 400,000 hectarashve been
distributed in individual plots, and many of the collective and state fam  have already been restuct
as joint stock companes. Directed credit to agriculture is under close scruny with the itnion of
moving to market allocation of credit through the commercial banking system. Farms and agricultra
eneprises that are bankupt will be liquidated or reorganized as economically viable firms. A nw
policy to re      agrictural parastatals is being implemented.
35.   The Governent is now taking action on four main initiatives to improve the policy and
insttutional framework for agricuture. The first is to increase productivity by bringing a larger shae
of land under improved management. To this end, the restriction on the transfer of land ownerhp
before the year 2001 is being reviewed, first in urban and then in rural areas. The Government epecxp
that this review will be completed by end 1994. At the same time, the conditions for the regitat,
sale or transfer of leases and land will be examined, with the inention of increasing the opporuity for
good managers to acquire added land. Farmers and their commercial banks will be encouraged to
recognze leases as collateral, to aid in raising needed finance. By clrifying the oppormuiti  for
individuals who own or control land, these policy changes wUl increase incentives within the joint stock
companes to define property rihts for land more clearly.
36.   Second, the Govermnent intends that the assembly, processing and distribution of agricultal
commodides and the supply of agricultural inputs will correspond to domestic and innatal makt
incentives. To this end, the grain and other inputs procured by the Gover_nent abroad or received
though humantian aid will be sold by competitive methods. Furthermore, a policy for restrucutu
and privatizing the agricultua parastatals is being implemented, supported by techmical  sistanwe
facilitated by the World Bank. Cereale and Ferilitatea have been included in the 1995/96 privatit
program. On August 17, 1994, the Government dissolved Cerale and temporarily moved its
adinion to the Minty of Agrilture. The public and regulatory fimctions of Cerase wvill be held
in the Miistry of Agriculture. The remainder of Cereale, the constituent commercial enterprises, wil
be privatized during 1995 and 1996. Privatizon will be by fumction so that there will be no monopolies
at either national or regional level for grain handling, processing, or distribution.
37.   Under a decree to be issued no later than January 1, 1995, the reorga on and pvzt
of Fertilitea will be conducted in a similar way to that of Cereale. Privatizaton of aUl
will be achieved by the end of 1996 on a sysmatic timetable during 1995 and 1996; and in suh a way
as to avoid creating regional monopolies. This program and timetable leading to the complete
privatizaton of the conti    enepr    of both Cereale and Fertlitatea will include the pdvizatin
of at least 20 percent of the two organizations before mid-1995. Both the republic and municipa level
compont of Fertitatea and Cereals will be privatizd during 1995 and 1996. In this proces e snai
scale privatization method will be used for certain compon. The Government intends to maitai
sategic stocks of grain and chemicals, which will be procured under competive conditions. Regg
the handling of the Stae grn  serve, two options are being considered: a) to kep the minimu



-9-
necessary facilides in state ownership; b) privatize the whole structure plus hanle the strategic stocks
based on conrs. A national grain policy study and proposal for implementation will be elaborated with
technical assistance facilitated by the World Bank.
38.   The Government is developing restructuring and privatization plans for other mator agricultural
pasls. These will be available for review by the World Bank by July-1995 and privatization is
targeted to commence not laeer then November 1, 1995.
39.   Once privatized, the parastatals will respond directly to market incentives and financial and
paymen  discipline. and will bid for credit in the commercial banking system like other private firms.
Development of resucuring and privatization plans is being accompaned by a review of trade policy
for the commodities and inputs that were previously controlled by these parastatls, together with actions
to strngthen competiton in agriculWal markets and ensure the continuity of functioning of these nput
supply and output markets durig the transition.
40.   Third, efforts to develop improved agricultural markets will be guided by the fact that Moldova
is a small nation and must be fully integrated with the international economy if agriculture is to grow and
poper. Partcipation in these intemational makrets will be increased by the removal of the restriction
on grain exports by mid-1995. Efforts will be made to develop information systems for international
markets that will permit the restucted pnvate agricultural enterprises to participate more effectively
in intenationl commerce.
41.   Finally, Moldcoop, like other private enerprises involved in the processing and distribution of
agricultural products and in the supply of cownser and other goods to rnual areas in Moldova, will have
to function in a new market environment. Directed credit emissions to Moldcoop have been eliminated.
By agreement between the Govenment and Moldcoop, a general review of Moldcoop will be conducted
by early 1995. This review will be supported by technical assistance faciSltated by the World Bank. The
review will cover organization and manageme, finance, and the emic envronment. Based on this
review, Moldcoop will take action to improve its efficiency and organizadon and to define membership
rights that are transparent and flly reflect principles of cooperation. These actions will make Moldcoop
more creditworthy. At the same time, the Government will open opportunities for investment, require
equal atment for tax purposes, and ensure competitive market conditions so as to improve incenives
for Moldcoop and other private firms servicing rural areas.



ANNE 3
Mddova: Slluctu    Adj_uemt L1os Poley Mtrix
objedim                    Nkomoaw  *muR  tkea            MaoMue to be **wa batmr          M.asom  to be tokwo by aid
Dowd .  ..  ..d_95
MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Restore GDP growth and price     New curecy introduced            Mintain satisfactoy stabilization  Maiain satisactory stabilization
stbiity                          November 1993                    program                          prorm
Stabilzation program wih defined                                  ReqWre prompt pame  by
ceilings on total credit and credit to                            enterprises for goods finaced
Govenmment in place                                               exterlly throtgh the budgetay
fimd
Remve exempions to corporate
profit tax, VAT and excise tax
Stengthen capacity of tax
adm.isnisation



ANNEX 3
Moldova: Structural Adjustment Loan Policy Matrx
Objectives                Mef"srm alredy taken            Mesares to be taken before         Mlams to be tknby end|
Board prentation                         1995
PRIVATIZATION                   _
Improve ownership structure of  Regulations established on        Substantial completion of 1993/94  Progress with the implementation of
enterprise sector               mechanisms for transforming       privatization program             the 1995/96 program as eienced
enterprises for privatization                                       by the establishment of tke
purposes                         Submit a new 1995/96 privatization   regulatory framework and
program and strategy to Parliament   institutional capacty, and by
Regulated investi ent funds and                                    monthly aucttons and
other financial intermediaries have                                advertisements for action
been created;
2



lb0 
lWr     [ tE
Omg
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNX 3
OtectIves                  Muum alrey t..                    .Meow" to be tak                        M ieasu to be lte. by
1  .                                   Ibeore Board preseaton       I                   ad 195l
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~(o                              A .=t I (#od i bold tbli)
Adjust entmeprise to financi     Budgtary subsidies to enterprises    Start liquidation or bankruptcy  Satifactory progress witk asset sles for
discipline                       sharply reduced                   procedures for 5 loss-makdng SOEs   enteipses under liqaddaon
Republican Commision established   Adopt action plans for 5 loss-  Implement restrrwtg nsres (sde of assets,
for identification of arrears, worst    making SOEs; plans to involve  spin-offt,   offifs, focusing on care bsnes ) for a
net debtors, and loss-makers      measures such as privatization,  fwher group of at least 10-20 addtional
asset spin-off, changes in cost-plus   fciatly troubled SOEs
SOEs permitted to sell assets in the   pricing and other practices
market                                                              Publish and support the exercise of creditor rights
Allow SOEs to sell assets by public  (banks, suppliers, employees, budget)
auction or tender without prior
approval of branch ministries and    Continue to initiate liquidation procedures as owner
the MPSPA                        of SOEs and support bankruptcy and collateral
procedures initiated by creditors; review fees
Introduce mechanisms for dealing    charged to initiate such legal actions
with arrears to energy utilities,
including cutting off non-paying  Establish monitoring system for largest net debtor
customers                        enterprses
Publish a list of enterprses with worst arrears
Improve efficiency of credit     New preferential credit eliminated;   The NBM to introduce regulations   NBM to intmduce regutations on szimple risk-
decisions while increasing bank  directed credit reduced to 20% of    goveniing the classification and  weighted capiol standards as the second step
safety                           total refinancing credit          provisioning of the loan portfolio    (following the first step on allowable capital) in a
for commercial banks; and to     timetable for moving into l*e with interatison
formulate regulations defining   practice
allowable capital         ._                 .     _     .     _     ,     _
4



ANNEX 3
Objeeves                   M Measresaledy taken                Me*res to be taken                      Measures to be take  by
l                                 I    before Board preentation                          end 1995
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ [          j  (s eonod   Iranche   con di o s   in   bold     ita l s)
Creation of a financial sector    Amendments to banking laws                                           Reinstate regulation lmtng loans to any
mobilizing savings for investment    adopted, including strengthening of                               shareholder of a bank who owns or controls 10%
in productive uses               the autonomy of the NBM                                               or more of the bank's shares to an amount not
exceeding 20% of the bank's captl (with the
Regulations introduced limiting                                     exception of 5 utlities)
bank loans to 20% of bank capital
for any shareholder who                                             Enforme regulons for provisoning against
owns/controls 10% or more of the                                    possible losses on new loans made after March 1,
bank and 30% for any single                                          1995
borrower
Enforce lending limit of 30% of capital to single
Increases in minimum bank capital                                   borrower
Regulate high-risk lending of Savings Bank while it
Audits of the four largest                                          remains the manm vehicle of household deposits and
specialized banks completed                                         benefits from a Govermment guarantee of deposits
NBM to prepare a list of conected SOE lending
and large exposure loans to SOEs from the banking
system for Government action
Risk funds against expecd  loan losses wil be
made allowable against tax, on a phased timetable,
for all commeial banks in April 1995
Develop action plans, including training, to
implement new accounting, classification and
l __________________________      ___________________________       ___________________________        provisioning,   and    paym ents  system s
.  .   ,  .  .  ...  ... . .... ... _ .......... . .. *5



A?4NBX33
_ _ _ _   _    _                   ~~~~~~MaftOm- Sfaw  A       uhwLeow Pafey Matnix
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I NW, to be o                                                       b 
THE  wMwi ENV1oNWIR
Devlop compe       twade and     Official can    rae uwfied       Submissi t Pariamgt of            &V$Pm   p1m whweby
price reme                       forex auctions itodud            legiain provdng for a pbased    awx a *wWlat mS             be
reducton of taiff mmes           'w         (wi  agnui xcede)
Quotas on hard curcy expors                                       t 5 b, byfJ=       , 199M, 30%
d _inated                                                         by Apr 1, I995M ad 20% by
D&mbr   1995
Abolih fv   -emc
New import tarff dopted                                           srer requirmt by ced-
December 1994
Impov producer Icentie to        Brd ad m pices fuly              Submisin to Paliame  of           Remove mainin  margn contols
respond to cnanging economic    liberalized                          aon dimntg  mar                by mid 1995
condios and reduce fisa burde                                     contro  e%cept Or sman oup of
Admnitered pric  and state       staple commodities                Where state purhases remn, put
puem e  rmoved inctuding for                                       swe procureme  o a competiiv
_   _    _    __            _   __            _    __            _    __            _   _         . a i s-,.l



ANNEX 3
Objectives                 Measures arady taken           Measures to be taken before      Measures to be take by end
Board pesetation                       199S
(second anche condinons in bold ialics)
Enhance efficiency by promoting    Restructuring and privatization of    Inclusion of Cereale and Fertilitatea  Progress with inqkementation of
private farming and developing   state and collective farms underway  in the 1995/96 Privatization  agreed privatation plans for
markets for agriculture                                           Program, together with            Cereale and Fertiltatea, mnclrng
privatization plan assuring      early disposal of excess capacid l
separation of operating units and
competitive domestic markets both    Transfer of regdatory functions
regionally and nationally        of Cereak and Fe,iilitatea to
Ministy of Agncrdthre and other
relevant ministries
Carry out organizational and
financial audit for Moldcoop
Develop markets for transfer of
land leases
Demonopolizaton of agricadlral
ma*ets including competitve
procurement of strategic grain
reserve
Review moratorium on land sales
until year 2001
7



ANNrX 3
Moldova: Str    a A4j,utsen Loan Pilc  Matrix
Ob).t~~~e     I ~   MeauWy .Irm4  IAft             Measin  to be tak  esi             taX    o etOb  n
SOCAL SECTOR MD LABOR MARET
An affordable, efficient and     Equalizadon of social security   Announce decision by November,    M     han  polc of a4wasting
equitable system of soci benefits   (pyoll) tax contuons across    1994, de-linking social benefits  benefts trOgh)at nomia
through the penod of transition and  all sectors                  including peons fom the           uscreases fpeewag earWgs
beyond                                                             minimum wage and linking them to  related sWieMe
Review of pension and odher      prce index through flat nominal
benefits when Social Fund wem    ince , thus freezig eaings       Skbmi* (gWa6a to Partianen
into deficit                     relatod suppemen (wodkig         for phsed inse in r einW
pensions to be inlble for price    age bgnnig in m-1995
compensatio payments); for
implementation in Januazy 1995   Initiate implementation of phased
increas in retirement age
PMmoDtion of labor market        Unemployed whose benefit         Transfer responsibility for
adjustment                       entiement has expired can be     severance paymn to Employment
offered Psocia jobs^             Fund in ca    where bankpt or
liquidated enterprises cannot cover
Period for which mass            severance obligations
redundancies can be delayed
reduced to 3 months
Obligation removed to pay for
worker retraining before dbmissal
,, I = ._., .. .. .. _ _. _ . - , . . _ ,~~~~~~~~~



