Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16544
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LN 3815 - MD)
MAY 28, 1997
Country Operations Division II
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 1997)
Currency Unit   =   Leu
US$1         4.60 Leu
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARA  - Agricultural Restructuring Agency
ARIA  - Enterprise Restructuring Agency
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
CG  -  Consultative Group
EFF  - Extended Fund Facility
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
G&NFS  -  Goods and Non-Financial Services
IDF  - Institutional Development Fund
IFC  - International Finance Corporation
IMF  - International Monetary Fund
NBM   - National Bank of Moldova
PSD  - Private Sector Development
SAL  -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA  -  Stand-By Arrangement
SOE  -  State Owned Enterprises
STF  -  Systemic Transformation Facility
MOLDOVA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director: Basil Kavalsky, EC4DR
Acting Div.Chief: Hafez Ghanem, EC4C2
Responsible Staff: Kristin Gilbertson, Country Officer, EC4C2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ........................................................i
Evaluation Summary ......................................................                                                                ii
Part I: Project Performance Judgment and Analysis .......................................................1                               I
A. Project Objectives .................................................1I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..................................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................3
D. Project Sustainablity ..................................................7
E. Bank Performance ..................................................8
F. Borrowers Performance ..................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ..................................................9
H. Future Operation ..................................................9
I. Key Lessons Learned .................................................                                                     10
Part II:  Statistical Tables .............................................................11
Table 1: Sunmnary of Assessments ......................................................11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .....................................................                                    13
Table 3: Project Timetable .....................................................                                             14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....................... 15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .....................................................  16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .....................................................                         21
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .....................................................                                  22
Table 8A: Project Costs .....................................................                                               23
Table 8B: Project Financing .....................................................                                           24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .....................................................                                  25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                                   26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................... 27
Table  12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .....................................................                              28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................                                    29
Appendices
Appendix A - Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Appendix B - Aide Memoire
Appendix C - Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Moldova
Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3815-MD)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment Loan
to Moldova, for which a loan (3815-MD) in the amount of US$60 million was approved on
December 8, 1994 and made effective on December 14, 1994.
The loan was closed in June 1996, the original closing date. The loan was fully disbursed
by September 1995. There was cofinancing for the project of ten million Dutch Guilders
(equivalent to US$5.4 million) from the Government of the Netherlands.
The Task Manager for the loan was Helen Sutch, Senior Country Economist for EC4C2.
The ICR was prepared by Kristin Gilbertson (Country Officer) based on an earlier draft by Alma
Kanani (Consultant). The ICR was reviewed by Hafez Ghanem (Acting Chief of EC4C2) and
Judy O'Connor (Principal Operations Officer of EC4DR).
Preparation of this ICR was undertaken during the first quarter of 1997. It is based on
material in the project file, including Report No. P-6444-MD for the Structural Adjustment Loan
to the Republic of Moldova. This report also incorporates the findings of a mission to Moldova
in October 1996 for preparation of the proposed second Structural Adjustment Loan.






-11-
Republic of Moldova
Structural Adjustment Loan
(3815-MD)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was the third loan to Moldova following on the
Emergency Drought Reco-very Loan (US$26 million) and the Rehabilitation Loan (US$60
million). The SAL was also preceded by a stand-by arrangement and a Systemic Transformation
Facility (STF) from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Since the approval of the SAL by
the Board in December 1994, the Bank has also prepared a number of investment operations
including the Energy (US$ 10 million), Agriculture (US$ 10 million), Private Sector Development
(US$35 million) and Education (US$16.8 million) Projects and the Pre-Export Guarantee
Facility (US$30 million). The Moldova Country Assistance Strategy was discussed by the Board
in April 1996. The IMF has since approved an Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) were to induce a quick response
in the real economy to macroeconomic tightening and sharp relative price movements and to
produce the reallocation of resources needed to promote a recovery in sustainable export-led
growth, while providing for the most vulnerable groups.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project was marginally successful with limited achievement as measured against
stated project objectives. Macroeconomic policies pursued during the SAL period continued to
advance the process of stabilization that had begun in late 1993 following resolution of the
Transnistria conflict in eastern Moldova. Inflation has subsided to an annual level of 15 percent
for 1996. However, growth has yet to be achieved and output declined a further 3 percent in
1995 and 8 percent in 1996. Progress on enterprise privatization, restructuring and financial
sector reforms was strong. Under the 1994/1995 privatization program, 70 percent of enterprises
were privatized. A number of pilot liquidations and restructurings were launched, and a State
Creditors' Committee was formed to supervise debt restructuring for bankrupt enterprises willing
to meet current obligations. New capital adequacy standards were phased in and the central bank
strengthened. The Enterprise Restructuring Agency (ARIA) was established by the Government
and is being supported with support from the Government of the Netherlands in the form of co-
financing for the SAL and with support from the Bank-financed Private Sector Development
(PSD) operation.
4.    Progress on agriculture, energy and the social sectors was minimal under the SAL with
backsliding in market liberalization policies for agriculture, inadequate privatization of state-
owned agricultural enterprises (SOEs), a serious reversal of sector policy with the changes in



-iii-
land reform policies after negotiations, continued increase in energy sector debt and continued
growth in pension arrears. Although no conditions were specifically breached, legislation to
increase the pension age was not adopted by the Parliament, and the privatization of Cereale and
Fertilitatea (the state grain and input marketing enterprises) remains incomplete. Elements of the
Letter of Development Policy relating to agriculture and energy were at best only partially
adhered to. Although the major reason for lack of progress was difficulty in obtaining the
political consensus necessary to advance these reforms through Parliament, in retrospect, the
SAL could have incorporated stronger conditionality in the energy sector and enforcement of
existing agreements in agriculture could have been tougher.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
5.    Although the project did not achieve its stated objectives of restoringr growth and
providing adequately for vulnerable groups and although the reform agenda could have been
advanced more aggressively in agriculture, energy and the social sectors, the program supported
by the loan led to significant reforms in the areas of macroeconomic stabilization, privatization,
enterprise reform and financial sector development.
6.    As noted above, investment operations in key sectors have since been approved by the
Board and are under preparation. Additional projects under discussion include a second private
sector development project, rural finance, a water resources and irrigation project, cadastre,
transport and a social investment fund. As Moldova continues to require balance of payments
support, a second Structural Adjustment Loan is now under preparation which will address the
remaining reform agenda in agriculture, energy, the social sector, public expenditures and
privatization.
7.    The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(i)   The definition of project objectives was ambitious, and, in retrospect, the Bank should
have been less optimistic as to how quickly growth could be restored.
(ii)   Compromises were made in the scope of project design and in elements of conditionality
that limited the ability of the project to achieve its stated objectives.
(iii) The Parliament has proved to be more conservative than the Government on the pace of
reforms. To ensure implementation of further reforms, it is essential that Parliamentary leaders
be brought into the process earlier.
(iv)   Commitment to reforms is somewhat reluctant in critical areas involving energy,
agriculture and the social sectors. Future operations should require strong up-front conditionality
and subsequent tranche conditions should be framed more strictly to allow for more transparent
enforcement. At the same time, it is critical that the Bank adopt only such conditions as it is
willing to enforce even when that means holding a multi-sectoral operation hostage to lack of
action in one or more sectors.



-iv-
(v)   There can be considerable synergy between a SAL and sectoral operations, particularly
when conditionality is able to remove key constraints to sector development and when sector
operations support development of institutional capacity. However, this requires a critical mass
of effort and resources. Judicious employment of technical assistance has proved critical in
creating an institutional basis for reforms in the enterprise sector and would have been useful in
other areas.






Implementation Completion Report
Structural Adjustment Loan
(Loan No. 3815)
Republic of Moldova
Part I: Project Performance Judgment and Analysis
A. Project Objectives
1.    Moldova is a small landlocked country situated between Romania and Ukraine with a
population of 4.3 million and a land area of 33,700 square kilometers. Endowed with rich
agricultural land and a temperate climate, Moldova is a producer of raw and processed foodstuffs
(primarily grapes, grains, wines, fruit, vegetables and livestock). Agriculture and agro-
processing represent about 60 percent of GDP. The country is almost entirely dependent upon
imports for its primary energy requirements and for inputs to its manufacturing industries.
2.    Following independence on August 27, 1991, the economy suffered from one of the
greatest terms of trade shocks -- estimated as equivalent to a 30 percent decline in 1992 income --
in the former Soviet Union due to the move towards world prices for energy. The cumulative
decline in GDP between 1990 and 1994 was over 60 percent. Living standards fell sharply with
a fall in real average wages of 53 percent between December 1992 and January 1994. The
balance of payments position deteriorated substantially reaching 5 percent of GDP. The budget
deficit increased rapidly to 22 percent of GDP in 1992 and inflation accelerated, reaching 1,200
percent. Natural calamities -- floods, hurricanes and droughts -- further exacerbated the
situation. In early 1992, an armed conflict arose between the regions on the right and left
(Transnistria) banks of the Nistru river due to differences on economic policies and ethnic
tensions. A cease-fire was instituted in July 1992 and political stability restored at the expense of
a defacto partition of the country.
3.    After resolution of the Transnistria conflict, the Government moved quickly in 1993 to
implement a successful stabilization program. The budget deficit was reduced from 22 percent
of GDP in 1992 to around 8 percent of GDP in 1994 on a cash basis, mainly by cutting
government spending and transfers to public enterprises. The Government introduced new taxes,
removed some exemptions and extended the scope of excise taxes. Monetary policy was
tightened and a new currency (the leu) was introduced on November 29, 1993. These policies
led to a reduction in inflation from a monthly rate of 37 percent in January 1993 to a monthly
rate of less than 2 percent by the end of 1994.
4.    However, adjustment in the real economy was slower than the pace of stabilization due to
delays in implementation of key structural reforms. In 1994, state-owned enterprises (SOEs)
continued to predominate with preferential access to credit. Reallocation of resources in



-2-
response to macroeconomic adjustment and relative price movements was muted by widespread
rollover of non-performing loans, capitalization of interest and an expansion of arrears.
Privatization of small-scale businesses began in October 1993, but the program was delayed for
both political and technical reasons. In the agriculture sector, adjustment had been minimal with
little progress on land reform and farrn restructuring. The result was a continuation of the
decline in output.
5.    The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was the third Bank lending operation to Moldova,
following the Emergency Drought Recovery Loan (March 1993) and the Rehabilitation Loan
(October 1993), both of which had financed critical imports in an effort to ease the path for the
Government's reform program. The SAL was also preceded by a stand-by arrangement (SBA)
and a Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) from the International Monetary Fund. The SAL
was cofinanced with a grant of ten million Dutch Guilders from the Government of the
Netherlands.
6.    The objectives of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) were to induce a quick
response in the real economy to macroeconomic tightening and sharp relative price movements
and to produce the reallocation of resources needed to promote a recovery in sustainable export-
led growth, while providing for the most vulnerable groups. The core elements of the program
were: (i) privatization including introduction of cash auctions and negotiated direct sale to
domestic and foreign core investors; (ii) hardening the budget constraint on enterprises including
withdrawal of subsidies, improved tax collection, recovery of debts to the budget, application of
bankruptcy and collateral laws to strengthen payment discipline, liquidation, restructuring and
strengthening of banking regulations; (iii) creating a competitive environment through
introduction of a competitive trade and price regime, privatization of Cereale (state grain
marketing enterprise) and Fertilitatea (state agricultural input supplier), demonopolization of
agricultural markets and restructuring of state and collective farms; and (iv) better targeting of
social benefits within fiscal constraints through a gradual increase in pensionL age and de-linking
benefits from the minimum wage.
7.    The program supported by the SAL was consistent with the limited Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in 1993 which involved support for macroeconomic
stabilization, enterprise privatization and governance, private sector developmnent, financial
sector reform, an effective social safety net, sectoral reforms in agriculture and energy, institution
building and reinforcement of the Government's implementation capacity. The SAL program
was also consistent with the subsequent full CAS presented to the Board in April 1996 which
emphasized macroeconomic stabilization, acceleration of enterprise privatization, land
privatization, establishment of the legal and regulatory framework for private sector
development, trade and price liberalization, energy sector reform and rationalization of public
expenditures with supporting reforms in the social sectors.
8.   In retrospect, the SAL could have been stronger on energy and agricul]ture sector issues.
Energy did not figure strongly in project conditionality, having been deferred to a sector
investment project which did not ultimately have the leverage to induce change. Some elements
were included in the Letter of Development Policy (reduction of energy sector arrears and



-3-
disconnection) but were not subsequently enforced by the Bank. Similarly, the SAL did not
include conditionality on farm restructuring because the then existing legislation was supportive
of land reform and farm restructuring and only after approval of the loan did it become clear that
the politics had changed.
9.    The primary risks associated with the program were the potential division between the
Government and the Parliament on the speed and depth of the reform process and the potential
for disjunction between implementation of the reforms and predicted growth. These concerns
were justified and did ultimately limit the achievements under the SAL.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
10.   Although the SAL was critical in moving forward a number of needed reforms,
particularly in enterprise privatization and restructuring, the SAL did not achieve its broadly
stated objectives of stimulating growth or of reorienting the social sector to more efficiently
protect vulnerable groups. The macroeconomic stabilization program put in place in 1993 held
steady with inflation down to an estimated 1 5percent in 1996; however, the economy continues
to decline. GDP fell by 3 percent in 1995. In 1996, GDP fell a further 8 percent, due in part to
poor weather conditions lbut due mainly to continued lack of reform in the dominant agriculture
sector (which accounts for roughly 60 percent of output), delayed wages and declining
motivation of agricultural workers. The cash deficit for 1996 was at 6.5 percent of GDP and the
commitment deficit was at 9.5 percent of GDP, both numbers being well above program levels
agreed upon with the IMF. The debt service/exports ratio is now expected to reach 20 percent in
1999.
11.   Progress on structural reform measures has been uneven. Although pensions were de-
linked from minimum wage and the overall structure flattened to contain pension expenditures,
the planned increase in the pension age did not take place. In the absence of any significant
reforms, arrears to pensioners have reached an average of 4.5 months and represent roughly 4.5
percent of GDP. There was little or no progress on agriculture restructuring with a serious
reversal of policies on land reform and only partial privatization and demonopolization of state
owned enterprises engaged in grain and input marketing. Meanwhile, energy sector arrears and
external indebtedness have continued to mount in view of continued delays in moving towards
cost recovery prices and in view of continued impediments to collections of energy sector debt.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.   Performance under the SAL program was uneven with good progress in macroeconomic
stabilization, enterprise privatization and restructuring but with little success in the critical
agriculture sector, energy, public expenditure management, pensions or social assistance. This
can be explained in part, though not exclusively, by differences between the Govermment and
Parliament in attitudes regarding the pace of reform. Progress against major elements of the
agreed reform program are summarized in more detail below.



-4-
13.   Privatization. The Parliament approved the Privatization Law in July 1991, but initial
implementation was delayed by the outbreak of the Transnistria conflict and continuing debate
on methods of privatization. Privatization had come to a virtual standstill in early 1994 as
elections approached. The privatization process regained momentum when the newly elected
Government under Prime Minister Sangheli set up a new Ministry of Privatization and State
Property Administration to preside over the previously warring agencies, streamlined the
regulatory framework, mobilized broader public support for the program and required enterprises
to prepare their own privatization plans.
14.   At the time of the SAL's presentation to the Board (December 1994), substantial progress
had been made in completing the 1993/1994 privatization program, and the Government had
submitted the 1995/1996 privatization program to Parliament for approval. The 1995/1996
program was adopted by the Parliament in March 1995 and the first part of the program (voucher
privatization) was completed on schedule, transferring over 70 percent of industrial enterprises
into private hands.
15.  Implementation of the second part of the program (cash auctions and negotiated direct
sales to domestic and foreign core investors) has been delayed. Out of 190 small-scale
enterprises approved to be privatized for cash, only 45 were sold in 1995 and an additional 17
were sold in 1996. The Government plans to introduce new procedures allowing for the
reduction in the starting price after the first auction if the enterprise is not sold and eliminating
the income declaration requirement for citizens wishing to participate in the auctions. The first
international tender, for privatization of the tobacco industry, was initiated in 1995 but has so far
not been completed and the negotiations have now broken down due to atternpts by the winning
bidder to change the terms of the privatization subsequent to award of the tender.
16.   Despite some of the difficulties with implementation of the newer elements of the
privatization program, Government commitment to privatization remains high. The draft
1997/1998 privatization program will contain all of small-scale objects, state shares in companies
and virtually all state enterprises which were left out of the previous privatization programs
including wine combinats and infrastructure enterprises engaged in energy, comm-unications and
transport. The Government has also indicated its commitment to allocate part of the proceeds of
the privatization program to build expertise in the Ministry of Privatization to handle cash
privatization and, in particular, large-scale transactions involving international tendering.
17.   Hardening the Budget Constraint. Macroeconomic tightening in Mo]dova was
accompanied by various forms of soft finance to the public enterprise sector through the
accumulation of arrears to the budget, energy utilities, wages and fragile commercial banks, as
well as by an increased recourse to barter trade. The Government realized that it was essential to
harden the budget constraint on enterprises if the incentives created by the liberalized prices and
ownership change were to be effective in producing changes in economic behavior.
18.   As a signal that financial discipline must be imposed, the Government initiated
liquidation procedures for seven loss-making SOEs in December 1994. This process continued



-5-
in 1995 with the start of 15 additional liquidations. Improvements needed in the institutional and
regulatory framework for liquidation were identified and new regulations put in place.
Experience has been gained in the use of auctions to release assets to the market. During 1995,
restructuring plans were adopted for another twelve highly indebted SOE's. These plans
included the privatization of production lines, the sale of assets and other measures to impose
financial discipline. A number of smaller enterprises have emerged from this process. This
process was also supported by the subsequent PSD project financed by the Bank and by technical
assistance provided under Dutch cofinancing of the SAL.
19.   A State Creditor's Committee has been in operation since May 1995, which has the
power to conclude debt restructuring agreements for those enterprises that reorganize to meet
current charges and service restructured debt in the future. The banks and the Ministry of
Finance also established a monitoring system to track the financial situation of state enterprises
and record arrears on a regular basis. In addition, as part of the preparations for a PSD project, a
non-governmental Enterprise Restructuring Agency (ARIA) was set up in July 1995 to facilitate
flows of technical assistance to restructuring enterprises and disseminate information about best
practices.
20.   The Government has supported the development of an autonomous central bank and
modern commercial banking and insurance sector. At the time of the SAL's approval by the
Board, the National Bank of Moldova (NBM) had introduced new regulations governing the
classification and provisioning of the loan portfolio for commercial banks. Subsequently, NBM
has introduced new capital adequacy standards and prudential regulations governing exposure
limits and insider lending. External assistance has been obtained to coordinate the transition to
Western accounting and audit standards which is now underway. The banking sector remains
relatively stable, though credit markets are underdeveloped, with banks commanding large
spreads and showing little interest in investment lending.
21.   Despite these actions, enterprise arrears still remain a serious problem in Moldova. In
particular, arrears to energy utilities and to the budget continue to mount. Although the
Govermment has implemented measures calling for penalties on non-payment of taxes and
allowing disconnection of non-paying customers, the Parliament has intervened to prevent
implementation of these measures by suspending the collection of tax penalties and by
mandating that Moldenergo ensure the supply of electricity to all consumers during the morning
and evening peak hours irrespective of their payment performance. Tax administration remains
particularly weak.
22.   Although most explicit subsidy programs have been eliminated, the Government
continues to guarantee enterprise loans and to on-lend to enterprises from the budget. These
result in large unbudgeted subsidies, as most loans (78 percent) are outstanding and most
guarantees are called and never repaid. At the same time, the Government continues to assume
implicit responsibility for external energy sector debt, and has recently agreed to US$140 million
of energy sector arrears into state debt.



-6-
23.   Creating a Competitive Environment. The program supported by the Rehabilitation Loan
made substantial progress in establishing an enabling environment for private sector
development through removal of export taxes and almost all quantitative restrictions on exports,
elimination of most export controls and loosening of margins controls. To complement these
advances, the SAL aimed to tackle remaining constraints in the areas of trade, prices and foreign
exchange, state procurement, and dernonopolization and privatization in the agricultural sector.
24.  Import tariffs were reduced substantially in 1995 and 1996 to a maximum of 20 percent
(with a limited number of exemptions) and Moldova has initiated the process of accession to the
World Trade Organization. The surrender requirement for foreign exchange was removed.
Liberalization of agricultural trade was to some extent undermined after release of the second
tranche through informal practices and the issue of regulations reversing essential policy changes
on grain exports.
25.   A draft law on public procurement was prepared with the assistance of a World Bank IDF
grant in 1995 and 1996. However, the law has not yet been adopted, though it is now being
prepared for the second reading in Parliament and has passed all committees.
26.   Previously, the supply, distribution and allocation of key inputs (seeds, agro-chemicals)
were controlled by the public enterprise Fertilitatea. Grain procurement, storage and sales were
controlled by another public enterprise, Cereale, which also ran a number oif milling and baking
enterprises. In August 1994, the Government dissolved Cereale and transferred its regulatory
functions to the Ministry of Agriculture. Parallel actions on Fertilitatea followed, and the
individual constituent enterprises of both conglomerates were included in thLe 1995/96
Privatization Program and privatized. However, the changes in ownership and formal
organization structures have not resulted in real competition in the grain and input markets.
Although competitive procurement was introduced for the State grain reserves, Government
control and influence remain strong in the grain market. There is slightly more competition in
the fertilizer and chemical input market, and private firms other than Fertilitatea have gained a
market share of about 15 percent.
27.   Although the corporatization and privatization of former state and collective farms
seemed to be proceeding when the SAL was approved, problems arose in early 1995 when a
series of amendments restricting exit were adopted by the Parliament. While severely restrictive,
these amendments did not altogether preclude exit, which continued to occur. During the second
tranche review, the authorities argued that the restrictions were temporarily r equired to better
organize the restructuring process. Bank management accepted this argument reluctantly, and
only on condition that exit continue in practice. However, farm restructuring slowed
tremendously, and today the bulk of the agricultural land is still used by large-scale former
kolkhozes and sovkhozes. Only 18 percent of land is under fully private management (14
percent household plots, 4 percent independent private farms). Of 950 kolkhozes and sovkhozes,
only 80 have been fully restructured into private ownership-based operations. However, the
future outlook may be more positive. The Government has recently moved to set up the
Agricultural Restructuring Agency (ARA) to oversee farm restructuring and has committed
preliminarily to the restructuring of 200 farms in 1997 and 400 farms in 1998. The moratorium



-7-
on land sales was recently overturned in a 1996 decision by the constitutional court, and
preparation of enabling legislation for the land market is underway.
28.   Social Protection. At the time the SAL was approved, the Government's capacity to pay
pension and social benefits at pre-transition levels had plummeted as a result of the drastic fall in
GDP and growing arrears in enterprise contributions to the Social Fund which administers most
programs. In response, the Government decided in November 1994 to de-link pensions and other
benefits from the minimum wage and to freeze the earnings related component of pensions and
other benefits and replace them with flat nominal increases based upon price changes and
available budget resources. This had the impact of flattening the pension structure and achieved
some expenditure reduction.
29.   The Government also submitted legislation to the Parliament calling for a phased increase
in the pension age by six months per year for men and six months per year for women until the
pension age reached 65 for men and 60 for women. Introduction of this legislation to the
Parliament was delayed due to political opposition from the trade unions and this condition was
waived on assurances from the Prime Minister that the legislation would be introduced after a
public information campaign could be conducted. The legislation was subsequently introduced;
however, it has never passed, and the pension age remains 60 for men and 55 for women.
30.   In the absence of fundamental reform, the situation with respect to pension arrears has
become extreme, with an average delay of 4.5 months almost exclusively at the expense of rural
pensioners for whom the system hardly functions. The arrears are driven by continued shortfall
in Social Fund collections combined with intense political pressure to increase pension benefits,
which are still being paid regularly in urban areas. There is growing realization that the situation
is not sustainable, and the Parliament has adopted a Social Fund budget for 1997 that excludes
any pension increase.
D. Project Sustainablity
31.   The project supported the Government in maintaining macroeconomic stability and in
achieving clear progress in the area of enterprise privatization, enterprise restructuring and
banking supervision. However, stabilization remains fragile and growth prospects remain
limited in the face of growing budgetary arrears, high debt service levels and the slow pace of
structural reforms. Action is needed to: (i) stop the buildup of energy sector arrears through the
introduction of cost recovery measures, improved collections performance and an appropriate
legal and institutional framework to limit recourse of energy suppliers to the state budget; (ii)
contain the cash and commitment deficits through rationalization of expenditures and
improvement in revenues; (iii) reform the pension and social assistance systems to contain
arrears and to ensure the timely payment of benefits to vulnerable groups; and (iv) move forward
with agriculture restructuring in order to restore and increase output in the economy's most
important sector.



-8-
E. Bank Performance
32.   After resolution of the Transnistria conflict in 1992, the Bank provided a steady flow of
financing to the Government of Moldova. The SAL was the third Bank lending operation
following the Emergency Drought Recovery Loan (US$26 million) and the Rehabilitation Loan
(US$60 million). The loan was prepared relatively quickly, with 7 months 'between
identification and Board approval. Two supervision missions were conducted between Board
approval and second tranche release, and a consultative group (CG) meeting was held in March
1995 following Board approval. A Private Sector Development Loan was prepared during this
period and substantially reinforced the Government in consolidating the achievements of the
SAL in enterprise privatization, restructuring and financial sector management. Monitoring of
energy and social sector actions by the Bank was more limited and may have contributed
partially to poorer results in these two areas.
33.   Resources provided under the SAL were critical to maintenance of stabilization policies
and to continued positive development of the macroeconomic environment. The policy program
supported under the SAL addressed critical reform needs in enterprise, finance, trade,
macroeconomic management, agriculture marketing and the social sectors; however, the actual
conditionality was relatively weak in the areas of energy and farm restructuring with minimal
prior action and no second tranche conditions required in either area.
34.   Deferral of such conditionality was motivated due to the difficulty in achieving political
consensus needed to move forward in these areas. On the strength of Moldova's strong
macroeconomic performance, action here was sacrificed to some extent to mLaintain the dialogue
and to push forward the reforms in other areas where the Government had manifested strong
commitment. This was particularly true in the energy sector where difficult institutional issues
and entrenched interests made reform difficult and unlikely. However, the Bank was perhaps too
flexible, and it is possible that the Government and Parliament might have been more motivated
to push forward, and energy and agriculture reforms could have been better realized, had the
Bank taken a tougher stance on these issues.
F. Borrower's Performance
35.   Moldova has pursued a course of macroeconomic stabilization with good success since
resolution of the Transnistria conflict in 1992 and consolidated its achievements in this area
throughout the period of the SAL. This represents a significant accomplishment, and it is
recognized that Moldova has moved more quickly than some other former Soviet republics in
this area.
36.   Progress under the SAL in the areas of enterprise privatization, restructuring and financial
sector management have been considerable, and again Moldova has performed well in
comparison with other transition countries. Although these successes have not yet translated into
growth for the economy, this is not unexpected given Moldova's predominantly agricultural
economy.



-9-
37.   Government commitment to other elements of the reform program included under the
SAL was more reluctant and hampered by the disconnect with Parliament over the pace and
scope of the reform effort. There was only nominal compliance with conditions on the
privatization of Cereale and Fertilitatea. The manner in which privatization was conducted and
the failure to first sell off excess capacity have resulted in the creation of defacto regional
monopolies, and the Ministry of Agriculture retains substantial control over many of the most
critical units of the former enterprises. Similarly, in the area of social protection, there was
nominal (though delayed) compliance with the second tranche condition on introduction of
legislation on increasing the pension age, but this was not adopted by the Parliament. In the area
of farm restructuring and land reform, there was virtually no progress made during the SAL
period. Actions agreed to in the Letter of Development Policy on energy sector arrears and
collections were also only partially complied with.
G. Assessment of Outcome
38.   The project did achieve good results with regard to continued progress on
macroeconomic stabilization and enterprise reforms. However, overall, the outcome of the
project must be regarded as only marginally satisfactory if viewed in the context of subsequent
economic developments and the limited progress achieved with regard to major elements of the
structural reform program. The sustainability of macroeconomic stabilization is now highly
dependent on resolution of energy sector issues, containment of arrears, public expenditure
reform and acceleration of agriculture restructuring. Without action in these areas, the economy
will continue to stagnate and external debt will continue to increase. Going forward, it is critical
that the Bank and the Fund maintain a strong position on these and other structural reform issues.
H. Future Operation
39.   Moldova continues to require balance of payments support and the Bank is currently
working with the Government to prepare a second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II). The
preliminary conditionality for this operation includes actions in the energy, agriculture, and
social sectors and further actions to consolidate gains already achieved in the area of enterprise
reform and macroeconomic stabilization. Upfront action is being stressed on account of previous
difficulties in obtaining passage of critical legislation.
40.   The Bank has also moved forward with the first investment operations in Moldova
including energy, agriculture, private sector development, education and a pre-export guarantee
facility. Follow-on projects are being prepared in these sectors as well as projects in the areas of
education, cadastre development, irrigation and water resources, transport and a social
investment fund.



-10-
I. Key Lessons Learned
41.   The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(i)    The definition of project objectives was ambitious, and, in retrospect, the Bank should
have been less optimistic as to how quickly growth could be restored.
(ii)   Compromises were made in the scope of project design and in elements of conditionality
that limited the ability of the project to achieve its stated objectives.
(iii) The Parliament has proved to be more conservative than the Government on the pace of
reforms. To ensure implementation of further reforms, it is essential that Parliamentary leaders
be brought into the process earlier.
(iv)   Commitment to reforms is somewhat reluctant in critical areas involving energy,
agriculture and the social sectors. Future operations should require strong up-front conditionality
and subsequent tranche conditions should be framed more strictly to allow for more transparent
enforcement. At the same time, it is critical that the Bank adopt only such conditions as it is
willing to enforce even when that means holding a multi-sectoral operation hostage to lack of
action in one or more sectors.
(v)   There can be considerable synergy between a SAL and sectoral operations, particularly
when conditionality is able to remove key constraints to sector development and when sector
operations support development of institutional capacity. However, this requires a critical mass
of effort and resources. Judicious employment of technical assistance has proved critical in
creating an institutional basis for reforms in the enterprise sector and would have been useful in
other areas.



-11-
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial    Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
(1')         (V')           (V')           (V)
Macro Policies                [J             a              a              a
Sector Policies                E             El                           E 
Financial Objectives           a            E                 IK
Institutional Development     [             E              El              a
Physical Objectives             l           E              E l
Poverty Reduction                           E              L]                l a
Gender Issues                               []1  El[
Other Social Objectives                     E                             Ix]
Environmental Objectives                    E                             Ix]
Public Sector Management       El                                         I] 0
Private Sector                 E                           E              El
Development
Other (specify)                E            E              El              E
B. Project Sustainability       Likely               Unlikely              Uncertain
(V)                   (V)                    (/)
ElCE]                 El
Continued



-12-
Highly
C. Bank Performance           satisfactory         Satisfactora            Deficient
(/)                  (/)                   (V)
Identification                [D i 
Preparation Assistance                                                    iii
Appraisal                     Cl                                          ii0
Supervision                                                               IIII
Highly
D. Borrower Performance       satisfactory         Satisfactorv            Deficient
(1)                  (/1)                  (V)
Preparation                                                               [0
Implementation                [l
Covenant Compliance           rr                                          Fl
Operation (if applicable)                           a
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome      satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  mnsatisfactory
El]                  L~ ~ ~~~I LI



-13-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                 Purpose               Year of        Status
approval
Preceding Operations
1. Emergency Drought Recovery    Finance inputs essential for   FY93       Closed
Loan                            agriculture, the most important
sector of the economy; narrow
balance of payments gap.
2. Rehabilitation Loan          Support economic reform;        FY 94      Closed
finance imports of essential
production inputs and health
care supplies.
Following Operations
1. Pre-Export Guarantee Facility    Attract foreign private finance  FY95  Under
Loan                            for pre-export transactions.              implementation
2. Private Sector Development I    Accelerate emergence and      FY96      Under
Loan                            growth of SMEs*; streamline                implementation
larger enterprises; increase
efficiency of resource
mobilization and credit
allocation.
3. Agriculture I Loan           Strengthen agriculture sector to  FY96     Under
promote agricultural exports;             implementation
increase agricultural incomes of
the rural pop.; strengthen sector
institutions.
4. Energy Loan                  Strengthen financial mgmt. and   FY96      Under
accounting systems needed to              implementation
place gas and electricity sales
on a commercial basis; improve
measurement of consumed
energy to reduce losses and
waste of costly imported fuels.
5. Education Loan               Provide support for new          FY97      Under
curriculum development.                   implementation
*SMEs: small- and medium-scale enterprises



-14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                      Date Planned       I)ate Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     03/94                03/94
Preparation                                    04/94                04/94
Pre-Appraisal                                  06/94                06/94
Appraisal                                      09/94                09/94
Negotiations                                   11/94                 11/94
Letter of Development Policy                    N/A                  N/A
(if applicable)
Board Presentation                             12/94                 12/94
Signing                                        12/94                 12/94
Effectiveness                                  12/94                 12/94
First Tranche Release                          12/94                 12/94
(if applicable)
Midterm Review                                 N/A                   N/A
(if applicable)
Second (and third) Tranche Release             12/95                 9/95
(if applicable)
Project Completion                              6/96                 6/96
Loan Closing                                   6/96                  6/96



-15-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY95                FY96
Appraisal estimate             45.0                15.0
Actual                         30.0                30.0
Actual as % of estimate        67.0%              200.0%
Date of final disbursement: October 5, 1995



-16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Macroeconomic Stabilization
1. Prior Actions
*  New currency introduces in November 1993.     N/A
.  Stabilization program with defined ceilings on total  N/A
credit and credit to Government in place.
2. First tranche conditions
*  Maintain a satisfactory stabilization program.  Since the introduction of the new national currency in
November 1993 (Moldovan leu) the exchange rate has
remained stable against the US dollar.
Stand-by facilities approved in December 1993 and
March 1995. EFF approved in May 1996. Perfornance
against quantitative performance criteria has been
satisfactory.
Inflation declined from 116 percent annually during
1994 to 24 percent annually in 1995 and subsequently to
15 percent annually for 1996.
II. Privatization
1. Prior Actions
.  Regulations established on mechanisms for     N/A
transforming enterprises for privatization purposes.
*  Regulated investment funds and other financial  N/A
intermediaries have been created.
2. First tranche conditions
*  Substantial completion of the 1993/94 Privatization   The 1993/94 Privatization Program was fully completed
Program.                                      in July 1995 with the sale of the last 59 small objects
and 150 medium to large enterprises.
*  Submission to the Parliament of a new 1995/96  The 1995/96 Privatization Program was submitted in the
Privatization Program and strategy.           Parliament on March 1995.
3. Second tranche conditions
*  Progress with the implementation of the 1995/1996   The main component of the 1995/96 Privatization
program as evidenced by the establishment of the    Program was mass privatization for patrimonial bonds
regulatory framework and institutional capacity, and  which was completed in November 1995. The
by monthly auctions and advertisements for    privatization for cash and privatization of individual
auctions.                                     projects delayed to 1997/98 Privatization Program.



-17-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Policy Commitments                                Program Implementation
III. Strengthening Financial Discipline
1. Prior Actions
*  Ministry of Privatization and State Property     N/A
established. New Law on SOE's passed.
Regulations and mechanisms for corporatizing
enterprises established.
*  Budgetary subsidies to enterprises reduced.      N/A
Commission for arrears identification established.
SOE's permitted to sell assets in the market.
.  Amendments to banking laws adopted, including    N/A
strengthening of the autonomy of the NBM.
Regulations introduced limiting bank loans to 20%
of bank capital for any shareholder who
owns/controls 10% or more of the bank and 30%
for any single borrower. Audits for the four largest
banks completed.
2. First tranche conditions
*  Start liquidations and bankruptcy procedures for 5    Improvements needed in regulations for liquidations
loss-making SOE's. Adopt action plans to involve   were identified and new regulations put in place.
measures such as privatization, asset spin off,  Institutional framework and liquidation procedures for 5
changes in cost-plus pricing and other practices.  loss making SOE's initiated in December 1994.
Additional liquidations and restructuring continued
during 1995, including asset sales, creating a number of
smaller enterprises.
*  Introduce mechanisms for dealing with arrears to  As of July 1994, a Government decision allowing
energy utilities.                               energy enterprises to cut off non-paying customers was
reinstated. However, as of 1996 Parliament has
intervened to prevent the Government from enforcing
this decision.
3. Second tranche conditions
.  Achievement of satisfactory progress in the sales of  The legislation was revised to permit de-registration of
assets of seven enterprises under liquidation agreed   SOEs to be liquidated and to permit asset sales. Asset
with the Bank.                                  sales took place and the proceeds were placed in Special
Accounts for satisfaction of creditor claims.
.  Initiation of the managerial, organizational and  Early efforts in imposing financial discipline on SOEs
ownership restructuring of a least 10 highly    were accompanied by the creation of a State Creditors
indebted SOEs, including provisions for         Committee in May 1995, which has the power to
privatization of production lines, sale of assets and    conclude a debt restructuring plan (including of debts to
other measures require to impose financial      the budget) for those enterprises that reorganize to meet
discipline without injection of new capital from the   current charges and service restructured debt in the
budget.                                         future. In addition, a non-governmental Enterprise
Restructuring Agency (ARIA) was set up in July 1995 to
facilitate flow of TA.



-18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Poicy Commitment s                              Prog Iam Implementatio
.  Introduction by the NBM of regulations on simple    The NBM issued regulation on risk-weighted capital in
risk-weighted capital standards for commercial  May 1995.
banks, as part of a timetable for moving into line
with international practice.
*  Reinstatement of the regulation limiting loans to  The regulation limiting loans to shareholders and other
any shareholder of a bank who owns or controls 10  related parties was passed in July 1995.
percent or more of the bank's total shares to an
amount not exceeding 20% of the bank's capital.
*  Submission to the bank of satisfactory evidence that  The Bank received satisfactory evidence that
all commercial banks have made provisions for  commercial banks were phasing in provisions against
possible loan losses on loans extended after March   loan losses according to NBM regulations during June
1, 1995 in accordance with the requirements of the   and July 1995.
NBM.
IV. Creating a Competitive Environment
1. Prior Actions
*  Official exchange rate was unified and foreign  First two reductions in import tariffs took place as
exchange auctions were introduced. Quotas on hard  planned in 1995. Reduction to a rate of 20% largely
currency exports were eliminated and export taxes   completed though some tariffs for agricultural products
were abolished. New import tariffs were adopted.   remain above this level.
.  Bread and milk prices fully liberalized.        Price cap was subsequently imposed on flour and as of
February 1997 the Government hats announced its
intention to remove this.
*  Administered prices and state procurement removed  N/A
including for grain.
*  Restructuring and privatization of state and   N/A
collective farms underway.
2. First tranche conditions
*  Submission to the Parliament of legislation     Legislation providing for the elimination of all margin
eliminating margin controls except for a small  controls, except for a small group of essential goods,
group of staple commodities.                   was submitted to the Parliament in January 1, 1995 as
part of the budget submission for 1995. Legislation for
removing all such controls was submitted to Parliament
on August 16, 1995.
*  Inclusion of Cereale and Fertilitatea in the 1995/96   Cereale and Fertilitatea were included in the 1995/96
Privatization Program together with the        Privatization Program.
privatization plan assuring separation of operating
units and competitive domestic markets both
regionally and nationally.



-19-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Policy Commitments                             Program Implementation
3. Second tranche conditions
.  Progress with the privatization plans for Cereale and  Cereale and Fertilitatea were formally privatized
Fertilitatea, including early disposal of excess  through the 1995/96 Privatization Program. However,
storage.                                      changes in the ownership structure have not resulted in a
real competition in the grain and input markets.
*  Transfer of the regulatory functions of Cereale and   The regulatory functions of Cereale and Fertilitatea were
Fertilitatea to the Ministry of Agriculture and other  transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture.
Ministries, as appropriate.
*  De-monopolization of the traditional market of  There has been no significant progress in de-
Cereale and Fertilitatea through the introduction of   monopolization of the traditional markets of Cereale and
competitive procurement of the State grain reserves.  Fertilitatea and the Government continues to intervene
in the grain markets,
V. Social Protection
I. Prior actions
.  Equalization of Social Security Tax across all  N/A
sectors.
*  Review of pension and other benefits when Social   N/A
Fund went into deficit.
.  Unemployed whose benefit entitlement has expired   N/A
can be offered "social jobs".
*  Obligation removed to pay for worker retraining  N/A
before dismissal.
2. First tranche conditions
*  Announce decision by November 1994, de-linking   The new system was announced in November 1994 and
social benefits including pensions from the   became effective on January 1, 1995. The earnings
minimum wage and linking them to the price index  related component of pension income was frozen.
through flat nominal increases, thus freezing
earnings related supplements; for implementation in
January 1995.
*  Transfer responsibility for severance payments to    Responsibilities for severance payments were
Employment fund in cases where bankrupt or    transferred to the Employment Fund.
liquidated enterprises cannot cover severance
obligations.



-20-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
i PoliyCmOmitm en ts                            Pr      Imvplementationw
3. Second tranche conditions
Adoption and implementation of a system of    The new system was introduced under legislation and
pensions and benefits increases which will be de-    passed in February 1995. The first increase took place
linked from the minimum wage and pursuant to  on July 1, 1995. The Government also froze the
which all qualifying beneficiaries will receive a flat  minimum wage which remains frozen as of today.
nominal increase based upon the price changes in
the previous quarter and the overall fiscal context.
*  Submission to the Parliament of legislation on the    Government introduced legislation subsequent to receipt
phased increase in the pension age which shall  of waiver. Parliament did not adopt the legislation, and
provide, inter alia, that commencing in mid-1995,   the pension age remains unchanged.
the pension age for men and women will be
extended in six month increments in each calendar
year until the age of 60 is reached for women and
65 for men.



-21-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                     Actual
1994     1995      1996     1994      1995      1996
Summary Indicators (Real Growth Rates)
Gross Domestic Product                    -6.0      0.5       2.0    -31.2%     -3.0%     -8.0%
Annual Inflation                         345.11    19.6      10.0    329.0'    23.8       15.1
Export of G&NFS                            5.0      4.8       5.6       NA      16.7       5.4%
Imports of G&NFS                           4.0      1.0       1.5       NA      15.8      23.2%
National and Fiscal Accounts (% of GDP)
Investment                                 8.7     11.0      13.0      34.92    29.82     28.32
o/w Government Investment                  4.0      4.1       4.0       3.6      1.8       1.8
Gross Domestic Savings                    -6.7     -3.1       0.3      28.8     20.9      14.1
Budget Revenues                           15.0     16.0      16.5      23.8     25.1      27.1
Budget Expenditures                       21.8     20.6      18.9      32.1     30.8      33.4
Fiscal Deficit                            -6.8     -4.6      -2.4      -8.3%    -5.7%     -6.3%
Exports                                   28.7     30.5      32.0     45.7      50.9      49.5
Imports                                   44.1     44.6      44.7      49.6     59.8      63.6
Resource Balance                         -15.4    -14.1    -12.7       -3.9     -8.9    -14.1
Current Balance                          -15.4    -14.4    -13.8       -5.8     -8.6    -13.2
Average to average
Data are overestimated due to inclusion of surplus inventory which had not been included in earlier estimates



-22-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at        Status  lInpact of study
appraisal/redefined
- NOT APPLICABLE -



-23-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate              Appraisal/latest estimates
(US$ million)                      (US$ million)
Item                Local   Foreign    Total            Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                     costs    costs
1. Import            0.0      65.4     65.4             0.0       65.4     65.4
Total     0.0      65.4      65.4             0.0      65.4     65.4



-24-
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate         Appraisal/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Source                           Local Foreign   Total         Local Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs   costs
1. IBRD/IDA                         0.0  60.0      60.0           0.0   60.0     60.0
2. Cofinancing institutions *       0.0    5.4       5.4          0.0    5.4      5.4
3. Other external sources           0.0    0.0       0.0          0.0    0.0      0.0
4. Domestic contribution            0.0    0.0       0.0          0.0    0.0      0.0
Total    0.0   65.4      65.4          0.0   65.4     65.4
* NLG 1OM - Dutch Grant (US$ equivalent 5.4 million)



-25-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
- NOT APPLICABLE -



-26-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original     Revised
Agreement  Section    Covenant   Status  Fulfillment   Fulfillment          Descripition of    Comments
Type                 Date          Date             Covenant
CA        3.01(a)       9          C         ---                    Consultation and
exchange of views
CA        3.01(b)       9          C                                Progress reports
CA        3.02          3          C         ---          ---       Procurement
CA        3.03(a)       I          C         ---                    Maintain records and
accounts
CA        3.03(b)       1          C         ---          ---       Audit and furnish records
and accounts
CA        3.03(c)       1          C         ---                    Maintain, audlit and
furnish records and
accounts
Covenant type:                                                          Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                 8 = Indigenous people              C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue   9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries       10 = Project implementation not     CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds  covered by categories 1-9   NC = not comiplied with
4 = Counterpart funding             11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
, = Management aspects of the       budgetary or other resource allocation
project or executing agency         12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants         regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 = Other



-27-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
- NOT APPLICABLE -



-28-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
($ '000)
Planned             Revised             Actual
State of Project Cycle  Weeks    US$       Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$
Preparation to appraisal  0.0      0.0      77.7     231.3      77.7     236.9
Appraisal               40.1     117.1      21.9      72.9      21.9      64.5
Negotiations through    10.0      22.5      16.0      44.5      16.0      44.5
Board approval
Supervision             50.0     220.3      39.9     166.2      47.2     189.5
Completion              10.0      30.8       3.2       7.4       3.2       7.4
Note: Actual data as of 04/30/97



-29-
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating 2
Stage of project    Month/   No. of    Days       Specialized     Implement.   Development       Type of
year    persons  in field    staff skills      status      objectives     problems
Preparation              04/94      6        15        CE, PSDS,
PSDS, FSE,
FSS, SPS
Pre-Appraisal            06/94      8        19     CE, PSDS, ERS,
PSDS, AS, FSE,
CE, SPS
Appraisal                09/94      2                   CE, DC
Negotiations             11/94      8         -       DC, CO, CE,
CRO, DO, LC,
AS, ERS, ERS,
ERS, FSE, EE
Board approval           12/94      -
Signing                  12/94      -
Effective                12/94       -        -
Supervision 1            05/95      2        12         CE, ERS            2             2
Supervision 2            07/95      5        14       SPS, CE, AS,         2             2
TE, PSRS
Portfolio status update  06/96      -         -                            2             2
Completion               06/96       -
- Specialized staff skills        - Performance ratings            -     _-_Types of problems
AS = Agricultural Specialist      I = Highly Satisfactory          F = Financial
CE = Country Economist           2 = Satisfactory                  M = Managerial
CO = Country Officer                                               T = Technical
CRO = Country Relations Officer
DC = Division Chief
DO = Disbursement Officer
EE = Energy Economist
ERS = Enterprise Reform Specialist
FSE = Financial Sector Economist
FSS = Financial Sector Specialist
LC = Legal Counsel
PSDS = Private Sector Dev. Specialist
PSRS = Public Service Reform Specialist
SPS = Social Protection Specialist
TE = Trade Economist






Appendix A
Page 1 of 2
Mr. B. G. Kavalsky
Director
Department IV
Europe and Central Asia
World Bank
Subject: Implementation of the First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I)
Dear Mr. Kavalsky:
First of all, I would like to express my sincere gratitude for your constant
cooperation during the development and implementation of the SAL I project.
SAL I offered needed balance of payments support at a critical moment in the
transition period. Financing provided under SAL I facilitated the continuation of
macroeconomic and structural reforms aimed at restoration of economic growth including
privatization, strengthening of enterprise budget constraints, establishment of a
competitive environment and the efficient distribution of social benefits.
Monetary and fiscal policy advanced substantially as a result of this project during
implementation (1994-1995), and there has been continued progress since. In 1996, the
inflation rate fell to 15%; there has been a marked and continued reduction of the budget
deficit; the national currency remained stable; and the rate of decline in GDP has slowed
down.
Substantial progress in implementation of the 1995-1996 Privatization Program
has been attained, with 70% of enterprises now privatized. The experience gained during
implementation of the project assisted in the design of the 1997-1998 Privatization
Program and in its approval by the Parliament in first reading. A pilot program for
enterprises' liquidation and restructuring has been implemented.
Privatization of the "Cereale" and "Fertilitatea" companies was also initiated under
the Privatization Program. In order to complete these reforms, it is necessary to continue
restructuring and demonopolization of large farms. Resolution of issues related to land
privatization is also necessary.
The banking sector remains relatively stable. It should be noted that there has
been substantial strengthening of bank supervision and accounting during the previously
mentioned period of project implementation.
Essential progress has been achieved in creating a favorable environment for the
development of the private sector through the elimination of export taxes and all
quantitative restrictions on exports. Customs control has become transparent and has



Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
been simplified. Import taxes have been substantially reduced to a level of 20%"o (vvith a
limited number of exceptions).
We would like to inform you that an extensive program on social refonms is now
being prepared. With respect to the increase in retirement age, the drafts of the proposed
amendments to the current legislation have not yet been adopted by the Parlianment of the
Republic of Moldova.
Although not all the reforms initially planned under the Project took place,
permanent and substantial progress has been achieved, particularly, in the enterprise and
financial sectors, and macroeconomic stabilization has been maintained.
The Government of Moldova maintained relations of close cooperation with the
World Bank and received constant support for its program of reform over the period of
preparation and implementation of this Project. The increase in World Bank investment
lending activity has also been a source of financial support for the Government over this
period.
Please be assured of my high consideration and sincere gratitude for your personal
assistance and support.
Respectfully,
Is! Ion Gutu
Deputy Prime Minister
Minister of Economy and Reforms
Translation



Appendix B
Page 1 of 18
Moldova: SAL II Preparation Mission
Aide Memoire
1.    A World Bank mission--consisting of Arup Banerji, Csaba Csaki, Louise Fox,
Hafez Ghanem (task manager), Kristin Gilbertson, Clive Grey (consultant), Laszlo Lovei,
Marcus Nievergelt (consultant) and Theodor Stolojan--visited Moldova from October 15
to November 1, 1996 to work on the preparation of a second Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL II). The mission would like to thank the Moldovan Authorities for their excellent
cooperation. This Aide-Memoire describes prelirninary results of the mnission's work. It is
divided into two sections: SAL H's objectives and a possible structure of the loan.
A. OBJECTIVES
2.    The SAL program should aim at ensuring that Moldova's achievements in the
areas of macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment are sustained over the
medium term. Moldova has succeeded in stabilizing its economy and reducing inflation to
an annual rate of less than 20 percent in 1996. It has also carried out a far-reaching
privatization program in the enterprise sector and took important steps to liberalize and
de-regulate its economy. These policies are starting to yield results: exports rose by 20
percent in 1995 and industrial production increased by 11 percent in the first half of 1996.
Consolidating the Stabilization Program
3.    The stabilization effort is still very fragile, however. Tight monetary policies were
not accompanied by structural reform in government expenditures, in the system of social
protection, nor in the energy sector. Financial discipline is not implemented and hard
budget constraints have not been imposed. Arrears to government workers, pensioners
and energy companies have continued to rise. The budget owes about lei 80 million in
back wages and about lei 300 million in energy bills. The Social Fund owes pensioners
about lei 200 million.
4.    Clearly this situation is unsustainable and the first objective of SAL II should be to
deal with the arrears problem. Building up arrears to pensioners and government workers
cannot continue over the medium term. It could have serious social and economic
implications. Arrears from the budget, enterprises and households to the energy
companies, together with inadequate pricing policies, have translated into arrears from the
energy sector to external suppliers, estimated now at more than US $170 million
(excluding Transnistria). If Moldova's external debt continues growing at this rapid and
uncontroled rate the country could face serious balance of payments and creditworthiness
problems.
5.    A strategy to deal with arrears could be based upon action in three areas. First, the
budget should be examined carefully to ensure that obligations to wage earners, the Social
Fund and the energy sector are adequately funded within a realistic revenue envelope.
This is especially true for the budget for local authorities who are responsible for the
majority of arrears. Second, the energy sector needs to be restructured in order to ensure



Appendix B
Page 2 of 18
that no more arrears would be accumulated in the future. Restructuring should be based
on the principles of de-monopolizing and privatizing the sector to enforce financial
discipline. Third, an overhaul of the system of social protection and of pensions to ensure
adequate, but affordable, protection for the elderly and the vulnerable.
Laying the Basis for Sustained Growth
6.    Structural reforms are also fragile, and the momentum for future growth may be
lost. Agriculture, by far the largest sector in the economy, is yet to be fully privatized and
restructured--only 5 percent of agricultural land is used by truly private farms and an
additional 14 percent are family and household plots. Services, which has proven to be a
very dynamic sector in most transition economies has not fully benefited from privatization
because small scale privatization is lagging and privatization of urban land is not taking
place. Under the circumstances it is not surprizing that growth in those two key sectors is
not picking up.
7.    This situation is also not sustainable because industrial growth cannot continue if
the other sectors do not follow. Hence, the SAL's second objective should be to extend
the privatization process to agriculture and services. The majority of Moldova's
population would benefit from the economic growth process mainly through more
employment and higher wages. Therefore, it is vital that agriculture which is responsible
for about 45 percent of total employment, and services which accounts for 35 percent be
fully covered by the privatization and liberalization efforts.
8.    A strategy to lay the basis for sustained growth would focus on farm restructuring,
privatization of agricultural and urban land, small-scale privatization, and ensuring good
quality energy services. The objective should be to complete land reform and small-scale
privatization over the next two years. It is also necessary to complete the enterprise
privatization program, focussing on privatization to strategic investors, cash privatization
to Moldovans and privatizing key infrastructure sectors. Industry and agriculture are
suffering from poor energy services and unpredictable supply. Reforms in the energy
sector to improve service quality should therefore be a key element of any structural
reform program.
B. A POSSIBLE STRUCTURE OF THE LOAN
9.    In view of the above SAL II would support reforms in five areas: (I) public
expenditure management; (2) pensions and social assistance; (3) energy; (4) land reform
and agricultural restructuring; and (5) privatization. Work on public expenditures,
pensions and energy would aim mainly at consolidating the stabilization gains and reducing
arrears. Clearly, it will also have other effects. Pension and social sector reformis would
have an important impact on poverty reduction and mitigating the social costs of the
transition. A well functioning energy sector providing good quality and reliable services is
important for the expansion of industry and agriculture. The primary goal of reforms in
agriculture and of privatization is to lay the foundations for sustainable growth. They



Appendix B
Page 3 of 18
would also have positive social effects, as expanding employment opportunities in
agriculture and services is key for increasing income and improving standards of living.
Public Expenditure Management
10.   The Government intends to maintain tight fiscal policies with the 1996 cash deficit
projected to decline to [3.6] percent of GDP. However, it is worried by the accelerating
growth of budgetary arrears. By end-1995, budgetary arrears were 552 million lei (seven
percent of GDP), and have grown by a further 337 million lei in the first three quarters of
1996. As of October 1, 1996, 298.7 million lei (plus penalties) were owed by the budget
to Moldenergo and Termocomergo, the two energy enterprises (rising from 233.5 million
lei in end-1995). By October, the Government owed 80 million lei in wages to budgetary
employees, and 117 million lei to the Social Fund.
11.   Government needs to stop overestimating the revenue stream. The growth in
revenues needs to be estimated conservatively, to minimize the likelihood of unplanned
shocks. Tax arrears are widespread, and the authorities are unable to tax all of economic
activity. When revenues have unexpectedly fallen below planned expenditures, this has
threatened "deficit blowouts", and forced ad hoc cuts in cash expenditures through arrears
buildup.
12.   Government is considering phasing down guarantees, and limiting them to a small
number of sectors; the isk of default has to be assessed more realistically, and adequate
provision made for the risk. Provisioning against called Government guarantees has been
too low, at 25 million lei in the 1996 and 1997 budgets. This ensures an expenditure
shock--since the Government paid out 131 million lei in called guarantees in both 1994
and 1995 (almost half the fiscal deficit in 1995).
13.   Another proposal is to stop on-lending from the budget. Non- or partial payment
of lending and on-lending from the budget is a problem. Through end-1995, 134 million
lei (78 percent of loans made) were outstanding (including 90 percent of US$ 37 million
lent to Moldenergo). As the unpaid part becomes an unbudgeted subsidy, it tends to
create uncertainty in resource allocation and budget planning, and, perhaps more
important, diverts expenditure from other critical needs.
14.   "Planned arrears" in the budget should be avoided. The Government's overall
expenditure targets in its budgets are sometimes unrealistic. Allocating insufficient
resources for wages, Social Fund contributions and payments to the energy sector
inevitably leads to the buildup of arrears. This could be a problem in 1997. The estimated
energy bill for the consolidated government is of the order of 280 million lei at current
tariff levels, and about 109 million lei are budgetted by the Central Government. It is
important to ensure that local authorities have sufficient resources to meet their energy
consumption. The approximately 175 million lei budgeted in 1996 by the Central and
local governments to pay for Social Fund contributions had already led to an arrears
buildup of 117 million lei by October. Yet, similar levels of funding are planned for 1997.
Hence, it is probable that arrears will continue growing. This should be avoided.



Appendix B
Page 4 of 18
15.   Reforms need to be undertaken in the government's administrative structures, to
enable the budget to rationalize and reduce its future liabilities, and to impose financial
discipline on local authorities. The budget mechanism as it is set up does not easily permit
monitoring of expenditures. Appropriations are made on a very aggregated basis, and are
not clearly linked to specific agencies and specific items of expenses. The 1997 draft
budget does set out separate line items for wages and Social Fund payments, but it does
not separate out energy expenses. Further, there are no control mechanisms, and no
disincentives, to prevent budget-covered organizations to use resources (especially
energy) beyond allocated expenditures. Although local authorities are responsible for the
majority of the arrears, there is no effort to monitor their expenditures at a disaggregated
level.
16.   Payments and arrears need to be regularly monitored. If allocations are exceeded,
the manager of the unit or sub-unit has to be held accountable. These could irLclude
sequestering Central budgetary transfers to local governments on a monthly basis unless
arrears are cleared; or, for localities which do not receive direct transfers, not transferring
a portion of the Centrally collected revenues owed to them until arrears are cleared.
17.   In addition to maintaining overall satisfactory macro-economic policies,
specific actions that could be supported by SAL II in this area may include:
Actions in the immediate term ("y Januarv 1997?)
o  Agree on a mechanism to impose discipline on budgetary sector institutions for
energy, Social Fund and wage payments, which needs to include: more detailed
monitoring of use, payments and arrears. [in cooperation with IMF]
a  Agree on a 1997 budget which is based on realistic revenue projections and that
includes sufficient funding for committments to wages, Social Fund contributions and
energy consumption. A system of earmaking energy and Social Fund obligations
could be considered. [in cooperation with IMF]
*  Commence functioning of the Strategic Studies Center. [in cooperation with UNDPI
* Develop a plan for reducing the stockc of budgetary arrears to the Social Fund, the
Energy Sector and Wage Earners. [in cooperation with IMF]
Actions in the short ternm (b March 1997J1
* Wage and pension arrears and budgetary arrears to energy enterprises should be
lowered to at most ----- ----- and ------ million lei. [in cooperation with E.IFI
* Design a two-year timetable, for the elimination of on-lending from the budget to
enterprises by September 1998.
*  Implement a new law on public procurement.
*  Design a system to improve expenditure management and monitoring capability. This
would include a more detailed structure of appropriations linked to agencies and items
of expenditure.
* Budget agencies' arrears to the Social Fund should be eliminated and the SociaI Fund
should have made at least two months of regular payments to pensioners.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 18
Actions in the medium term (bv September 1997?)
* Wage and pension arrears and budgetary arrears to energy enterprises should be
lowered to at most ----, ----- and ------ million lei. [in cooperation with IMF]
* Adhere to the timetable for elimination of on-lending and the reduction of guarantees.
Actions in the long term (hy March 1998?)
* Wage and pension arrears and budgetary arrears to energy enterprises should be
eliminated.
* The elimination of all on-lending and guarantees.
Actions before the end of the SAL II program
* No wage and pension arrears nor budgetary arrears to energy enterprises.
* No on-lending nor guarantees.
Pensions and Social Assistance
18.   Some pensioners have not received pension payments for six to seven months.
Arrears to other Social Fund beneficiaries are also building up and now amount to about
60 million lei. This reflects the fact that arrears from enterprises and the budget to the
Social Fund have continued to increase and now total about 480 million lei. The
agriculture sector is the biggest debtor to the Social Fund with arrears of some 240 million
lei, and as described above central and local government budgetary institutions are also
not paying their Pension Fund contributions.
19.   Government has not started tackling this problem. There has been little action to
either improve collections or to bring pension expenditures in line with more realistic
estimates of Social Fund revenues. On the contrary, pensions were increased on paper by
20 percent in February 1996.
20.   The current system of pension and social benefits has clearly shown itself to be
unsustainable. In order to avoid a complete breakdown of the system with the attendant
social consequences, it is essential to reform it and to: (i) implement measures
immediately to enable the Social Fund to meet its current obligations and to stop the build-
up of any further arrears to pensioners and other beneficiaries; and (ii) design a pension
reform which meets the needs of current pensioners and future beneficiaries.
21.   As a first step in the reform process, the Government has decided to produce a
draft strategy paper for the reform of the pension and social protection systems by January
1, 1997, and has established a working group including representatives from the Ministry
of Labor and Social Protection, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. It
was agreed that this strategy paper will contain: (i) an overview of the existing system of
social protection; (ii) analysis of the problems of the current system including short-tenn
and long-term modelling of pension and social protection systems; (iii) principles for the
new system; and (iv) proposals for change.



Appendix B
Page 6 of 18
22.   Based on the findings of this analysis, the Government would implement measures
to ensure that payments to current pensioners and to persons due to retire in 1997 can be
made in a timely manner. The exact measures remain to be determined but could include:
de-linking pensions from the minimum wage; indexing pensions to actual collections
during the previous quarter and limiting contemplated pension increases to people older
than 65 years of age. The likely effectiveness of such measures will be reviewed during
the appraisal mission and the need for additional action discussed.
23.   By March 1996, the Social Fund should have made at least two months of regular
payments to pensioners and measures should be taken to increase the retirement age,
without which it will be impossible to balance the revenues and expendiitures of the Social
Fund. In the medium term, the Government has agreed to introduce a new' law on pension
and social protection which would be the vehicle for introducing longer-term reforms.
24.   The Government has also decided to establish a working group to prepare a
revised version of the draft Law on Non-State Pension Funds. The working group would
include representation from the members of Parliament, the Government, banking and
insurance supervision units, insurance companies, banks and large employers. The
existing draft law does not, in the view of the mission, adequately provide for the security
of private pension schemes. It was recognized that without additional security provisions,
the draft law could open a wide field for abuse and could jeopardize the success of
voluntary pension schemes into the future. Although it is necessary to slow the pace of
preparation of this legislation, it would be anticipated that the Government would adopt a
revised version of the Law on Non-State Pension Funds under the SAL II program.
25.   Specific actions that could be supported by SAL I1 in this area may include:
Actions in the immediate term (by Januar 1997?)
* Draft a strategy paper for the reform of the public pension and social protection
systems.
* Implement measures to ensure that payments to current pensioners and to persons due
to retire in 1997 can be made in a timely manner. These could include: de-linking
pensions from the minimum wage; indexing pensions to actuall collectuions during the
previous three months; setting a ceiling on pensions; increasing pensions only to
people older than 65 years; etc. [This needs to be strengthened and made more
credible. Agreement on specific measures to be reached following Clive Grey's
mission in November]
* Establish a permanent working group for the preparation of a new draft law on private
pensions. The group should not be limited to members of Parliament. It should also
include government officials and representatives of insurance companies, banks, labor
unions and employers. [Marcus Nievergelt to return before end-December to
provide technical support to this group]



Appendix B
Page 7 of 18
Actions in the short term (by March 1997?)
* Increase immediately the retirement age to 60 years for women and 65 years for men.
[does Government agree with "immediately"?]
* Produce draft of new law on private pensions.
Actions in the medium term (by September 1997?)
* Adopt a new law for the public pension and social protection systems.
* Adopt a new law on private pensions.
Actions in the long term (b!y March 19982)
* Satisfactory implementation of the new public pension and social protection systems.
* Satisfactory implementation of the law on private pensions.
Actions before the end of the SAL II program
* Satisfactory implementation of the public pension and social protection systems.
Satisfactory implementation of the law on private pensions.
Energy
26.   Moldova's energy sector is in a deep crisis. The sector is building up intemal and
extemal payment arrears at a rate that is not sustainable. Moldenergo's receivables (Lei 482.8
nillion on October 1, 1996), even if fUlly paid in the future, will cover less than half of its
payables (Lei 1062.2 million). Its payables, among other things, include Lei 182.3 million
(about US$ 40 million equivalent) to Ukraine's National Dispatch Center, and Lei 609.2 million
to Moldovagaz. Moldovagaz' arrears to RAO Gazprom, without including payment arrears in
Transnistria, reached Lei 810 million (US$ 175 million equivalent) plus about Lei 200 million in
penalties in September. The government has recently agreed to convert part ofthese arrears to
a state debt of US$ 140 million to be repaid over seven years. Tirex Petrol's customers owe
the company Lei 270 million, however, most of its suppliers demand prompt payment. In
order to remain in business, Tirex Petrol had to be provided repeatedly with credit from the
budget and the banking sector (Lei 200 million of these credits is still outstanding - the full
sum was guaranteed or provided by the government). Based on data for the first 9 months, the
build-up of new payment arrears to foreign suppliers of gas, oil products, coal, and electricity is
expected to reach about US$ 100 million during 1996.
27.   The quality of energy supply is extremely poor. For example, there are large
fluctuations of frequency and rotating black-outs in the electricity system, causing serious
damage to sensitive equipment at the final consumers. Uneven temperatures in the buildings as
a result of the obsolete district heating system are forcing many consumers to rely on
supplementary electrical heating devices. The poor quality of supply reduces the ability of
potentially profitable businesses to grow and pull the economy out of recession.
28.   Energy production and consumption processes are very inefficient. Self consumption
and losses in the electricity industry increased from 1.22 TWh in 1990 to 1.43 TWh in 1995,
despite a 42% drop in final electricity consumption. About 5% of gas received at the border is



Appendix B
Page 8 of 18
lost due to leakage and inefficient distribution stations. About one quarter of the gas pipeline
network is at a high risk of being inTeperably damaged by corrosion unless there is a decisive
intervention. A large share of district heating is produced in heat-only-boilers of small capacity
and low efficiency. The efficiency of energy use in the industrial, agricultural and residential
sectors is low due to the lack of energy saving measures and energy efficienrt technologies.
These factors increase the cost of energy supply and reduce the competitiveness of Moldova's
industrial and agriculture sectors on the world market.
29.   This crisis is due to several causes. State owned energy suppliers (vIoldenergo,
Moldovagaz, Termocom, Termocomenergo, Tirex Petrol) tolerate non-paymernt in response to
political pressure. For example, Tirex Petrol was ordered every spring during the last four
years to provide interest free credit to agriculture cooperatives despite the growing fuel arrears
of these entities. The Parliament has recently demanded that Moldenergo ensure the supply of
electricity to all consumers during the morning and evening peak hours irrespective of their
payment performance.
30.   Energy suppliers and consurners expect that the government will ultimately take over
the responsibility for settling energy payment arrears, and show little interest: in improving the
situation by exploring measures such as cutting off non-payers, rescheduling payment arrears,
improving the billing of customers, introducing energy saving measures, etc. The practice of
grossly underestimating the energy expenses of budgetary organizations leads to repeated
mutual cancellations of payment arrears between the budget and the energy suppliers, makdng it
impossible to enforce payment discipline. Mid-level managers in Moldenergo are of the
opinion that the large stock of Moldenergo's payables is a problem that the govemrnent should
solve, and they have not shown any interest in starting negotiations with their creditors (and
debtors). Moldenergo has not even used the possibility of charging a 100% higher tariff to
those residential customers who consume more electricity than the monthly norm (as
established by Government Resolution 807 of Dec. 1995). The recent takeover of
Moldovagaz's debt to RAO Gazprorn by the state, and the govemment's decision that various
enterprises should provide Moldovagaz a credit of US$ 35 million (in the form of goods), has
reconfirned the perception that the government will take care of energy payment arrears.
31.   The separation of the regulation of energy prices from the regulation of the quality of
supply has lead to the illusion that prices can be kept below costs without a penalty. Prices are
regulated on an ad-hoc basis without relying on a stable and transparent set of rules. For
example, the average retail price of gas (Lei 333 per 1000m3) was established at a time when
the exchange rate of US$ was about 10% lower. As a result of the deprecialion of the
exchange rate, Moldovagaz suffered a loss of about Lei 58 million. Similarly, the average price
of electricity falls short of actual costs by about 10%. Taking into account the need to recover
the difference between Moldenergo's payables and receivables over a period of (say) 5 years,
the average tariff would need to be increased by more than 30%. These low prices would have
led to the accumulation of payment arrears and unreliable service even if customers had paid
fully for their energy purchases.
32.   Low payment discipline and distorted prices lead to the waste of energy resources.
Neither budgetary organizations nor residential consumers are interested in reducing their



Appendix B
Page 9 of 18
energy consumption. Low household electricity, gas, and heat prices (in comparison to costs)
and the lack of metering make energy saving measures uneconormic for the population. The
system of cross subsidies results in high gas, electricity and district heat prices for industrial
enterprises, reducing their competitiveness. The extremely high price of district heating forced
many industrial enterprises to rely on their own sources of heat, even if their costs were higher
than the true cost of supply from Termocom(energo).
33.   The inability of energy supply enterprises to generate cash internally, their low
creditworthiness, and the dire financial situation of their main (or only) owner, the state, has
lead to a chronic shortage of capital. This shortage of capital delays the implementation of
urgently needed investments in metering, loss reduction, rehabilitation, and modernization of
energy production and delivery systems.
34.   The government has recognized the severity of the crisis and has already started the
development of measures in order to solve it. Government Resolution 478 of September 2,
1996, ordered, among other things: (i) the preparation of a proposal to restructure the energy
sector in line with the requirements of a market economy; (ii) energy price increases starting
from January 1, 1997; (iii) the development of a new methodology for the regulation of
electricity, gas and heat prices; (iv) the improvement of the social safety net, including the
development of a mechanism to provide targeted cash compensations for households for the
higher energy bills; and (v) the preparation of a schedule to settle payment arrears.
35.   The main thrust of restructuring should be towards demonopolization and privatization.
In order to stop the accumulation of payment arrears (these arrears, defacto if not dejure,
seem to be guaranteed by the state), the responsibility for the import and supply of oil products,
gas and electricity should be tumed over to the private sector. This could be accomplished by
either giving exporters from Russia, Ukraine and other countries the right to market their
products in Moldova (directly or through agents selected by them), or by privatizing the oil,
gas and electricity distribution companies. If the former option is selected, the distribution
companies will simply provide a package of services (e.g., distribution, meter reading and
customer billing) to the owners of the products for a regulated fee. If the latter option is
selected, the management of the distribution companies should be turned over to strategic
investors who have the necessary know how and capital to operate the companies, and will not
be subject to political influence. This could be achieved by either selling a minority of the
shares of these companies to strategic investors combined with a management contract, or
selling the majority of shares right away. All these options will require that the gas and
electricity transmission systems (i.e., the high voltage electricity network and the high pressure
gas transport system) provide open access to their facilities for a regulated service fee.
36.   In addition to the need to increase urgently average electricity and gas tariffs and to
phase out gradually the cross-subsidization of households by other consumers, the regulation of
the energy sector should aim at establishing a transparent, predictable regulatory regime that
combines the regulation of prices and service quality. The experience of several countries have
demonstrated that the best way to achieve this is to introduce a licencing regime administered
by a professional body. The licences would spell out the rights and obligations of energy



Appendix B
Page 10 of 18
suppliers and consumers. The activity of the regulatory body should be governed by a set of
procedural rules and be subject to the scrutiny of the public.
37.   The implementation of the above reform program will require substantial technical
assistance. The World Bank is reacly to assist Moldova in securing this assistance from bi- and
multilateral donors.
38.   Specific actions that could be supported by SAUl in this area could include:
Actions in the immediate term fby January 1997?)
* Restructure the stock of payables and receivables of Moldovagaz, Moldenergo and
Termocom(energo), and adopt a debt management plan. The restructuring should take
into account the partial takeover of Moldovagaz' debt to RAO Gazprom by the
government, the arrears of the budgetary organizations to the energy companies, the write-
off of uncollectable receivables (from customers who went out of business), and the
settling of payables and receivables over a period agreed between the various parties. The
net payables of the companies (particularly for Moldenergo) would have to be recovered
from the customers over a period of 3-5 years via a surcharge on electricity sales. [Has
Government agreed that this work will be carried out by ARIA?]
*  Increase the average price of electricity, heat and gas to a level that fully covers costs
(including the above calculated surcharge to settle net payables), while reducing (in
absolute terms) the difference between the prices paid by households and other consumers.
Part of the increase of household energy prices could take the forn of a reduction in the
number of privileged consumers, and implementation of the applicable suLrcharge for excess
consumption (see below); [specific figures to be agreed at wrap-up oii October, 31?
link with IMF agreement?]
* Start monthly electricity meter reading for households in order to imnplement the surcharge
applicable to electricity consumption above the norms set by Government Resolution 807
of December 1995.
* Adopt a plan to eliminate fiully the cross-subsidies to households from otfher electricity, gas
and heat consumers and establish a tariff structure that reflects costs by not later than end-
1997 for gas and electricity, and end-1998 for district heat.
Actions in the short term (by March 1997?)
* Adopt a Government decision to establish a system of regulating the electricity, gas and
district heating industries through licences. The licences will include fomiulas for the
setting of prices, specify the quality of service, and ensure open access to the high voltage
electricity network and the high pressure gas transmission system.
* Remove the responsibility for the import and supply of natural gas from (majority) state
owned enterprises by implementing one of the following: (a) tum over the task of selling
gas on the territory of Moldova to RAO Gazprom (the distribution companies would
provide distribution, meter reading, and customer billing services for a regulated fee); (b)
sign a contract with 1-3 experienced foreign companies that are willing to take over the
management of the gas distribution companies for a period of at least one year, or (c) sell
enough shares of the gas distribution companies to ensure that the state is not their single



Appendix B
Page 11 of 18
largest shareholder anymore. Options (b) and (c) would likely require the merger of the
gas ditribution companies into not more than 4-6 entities. [which option does the
Government prefer?]
* Separate the Moldavskaya and Chisinov I-II power plants, the high voltage transmission
system, and electricity dispatch from the low voltage distribution network. Establish a
single company for dispatch and transmission.
Actions in the medium term (bv September 1997?)
Corporatize the two power generation companies and the electricity distnbution
companies. Develop and sign contracts between the market participants, including the
exporters in neighboring countries.
* Increase the price of gas and electricity for households to the level of industrial prices.
* Establish a system of assisting low income households to pay their energy bills (the
subsidies should be paid from the budget). Replace the price discounts given to the
households of privileged consumers with personal subsidies paid also from the budget.
* Eliminate the control over oil product prices (including indirect control through limits on
profitability). Demonopolize the oil products distribution subsector by selling part of the
depots and transport assets of Tirex Petrol to private investors. Privatize more than 50%
of the shares of Tirex Petrol.
Actions in the long term ({y March 19982)
I 7ssue licences to all regulated entities in the power, gas and district heating industries.
* Adopt a tariff structure for gas and electricity that reflects the true cost of supply to various
categories of consumers. Abolish electricity consumption norms and penalties for above-
the-norm consumption.
3 Sign management contracts with experienced foreign firns or adopt a privatization plan for
the electricity generation and distribution companies (as well as gas distribution companies
unless already privatized).
* Increase the price of heat for households to 2/3 of the level of industrial prices and
elimninate cross-subsidies between cities.
Actions before the end of the SAL II program
*  Privatize the electricity generation and distribution (and gas distribution) companies (or
extend the management contracts).
*  Adopt a tariff structure for heat that reflects the true cost of supply to various categories of
consumers.
*  Transfer responsibility for the regulation of the district heating industry to municipal
governments.
Land Reform and Agricultural Restructuring
39.    Agriculture, 33 percent of GDP, has been hit hard by the collapse of the former
Soviet Union and transition-related events. The total agricultural output declined by more
than 50% in comparison to pretransition levels (47.1% of the 1986-1990 avergae in 1995).



Appendix B
Page 12 of 18
According to Government statistics in 1995 output was 4% more than in thte previous year
but a modest decline of output is forecasted for 1996.
40.   Progress in creating market based privatized food and agricultural sector in
Moldova has been slow. Achievements of the reform process include: (a) the creation of a
liberal price and market regime for agriculture; (b) progress in the demonopolization of
input supply and grain handling, and (c) the completion of the first phase of privatization
of agro-processing and starting land reform. Some of the most important tasks of
transition, especially the creation of a land market and land reform, the demonopolization
and privatization of the grain sector, and the emergence of a competitive input supply
sector, agro-processing and agricultural product marketing services remain unfinished.
41.   The most critical policy issues that will affect rural recovery in Moldova are: (a)
accelerating the process of land reform and farm restructuring; (b) maintaining a liberal
course of macro-economic policies for agriculture; (c) ensuring international
competitiveness of agro-processing industries and an efficient input supply for agriculture;
and (d) creating an improved financial and institutional framework. Reforrns supported by
SAL II will focus on points (a) and (b). Issues of competitiveness, input supply and
building financial institutions will be addressed through other World Bank operations and
non-lending services.
42.   In the first phase of land reform, household plots were increased and land shares
for land used by large-scale farms were given to about a million people. Actual
restructuring of large-scale farms, however, did not take place. At that time the
Government's intention was to maintain the core of large-scale farming under state
control. This resulted in very complicated bureaucratic procedures for land privatization
and private farm registration. The 1995 amendment of the land code thwarted the real
restructuring of large-scale farms. Hence, land privatization is at an early stage--by
October 1996 the number of independent private farms reached 90 thousand farming on
130,000 ha which is still only about 5% of total agricultural area. Household plots cover
about 14% of total agricultural land.
43.   Out of about 950 large-scale farms only 80 farms so far have been fuilly
restructured into entirely private operations. However, the process has accelerated in 1996
for two reasons. First, a Constitutional Court decision restored the possibility of
individual exit from large-scale farm. Second, pressure created by the increased economic
difficulties of unrestructured large-scale farmns, combined with progress in overall reform,
resulted in a new push for restructuring. Local restructuring initiatives ncw receive more
support from the Government and they also receive international donor assistance.
Ongoing pilot projects for farm restructuring have succeeded in developing new farming
structures that are fully privatized. These pilot projects have distinctly positive features
compared to earlier restructuring efforts in Moldova and compared to methods used in
other FSU Republics.
44.   SAL II will support the Government's efforts to accelerate the process of large-
scale farm restructuring and complete the restructuring of 400 large-scale farms. The



Appendix B
Page 13 of 18
restructuring will be based on full privatization of land (physically identified land plots for
each beneficiary with individual titles). The new land owners freely decide on the way they
wish to continue farming. Land will remain in individual private ownership in the various
forms of newly emerging farming organizations, and these forms provide opportunities
for further restructuring and modifications in land use. In order to facilitate this process
the Government will (a) revise and improve the exit and registration procedures for
establishment of private farms (simplified procedures, clear and reasonable time limits,
reasonable appeal process etc.); (b) review ongoing farm restructuring pilot projects and
prepare practical guidelines for the dissemination of these experiences as well as a
program to extend these projects to the national level; (c) commence the functioning of
Agricultural Restructuring Agency, a non-governmental institution created to implement
and support the nationwide program of farm restructuring.
45.   SAL II will support the establishment of a uniform cadastre system and other legal
and institutional conditions for a functioning land market. Land reform is seriously
constrained by the absence of a well-functioning land titling and registration system, as
well as by the absence of a functioning land market. The current process of land titling is
complicated and very bureaucratic, with inadequate capacity to deal with existing and
projected demand. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the regional Land
Arrangement Services (LAS) under the Ministry manage the process. About 91% of the
beneficiaries of the land reform have received land shares certificates, but only 10,000 land
owners have obtained final title out of 983,000 potential title holders. The establishment of
a national cadastre system including land registration and titling has begun. The national
Agency for Geodesy, Cartography, and Cadastre (NAGCC) was established recently to
coordinate this process. A September 1996 decision of the Constitutional Court eliminated
the moratorium on land sales. The legal framework for land registration and handling of
land transactions as well as related institutional arrangements are, however, missing. The
normative land pricing and regulations on land leasing are also constraining emerging land
markets.
46.    The incomplete implementation of the SAL I reform package has left the market
environment for agriculture distorted. Government intervention still remains significant
for bread, grain and milk products and some of the tariffs for agricultural products are
high.. The Government is committed to proceed with further actions to liberalize the food
and agricultural markets.
47.   Specific actions that may be supported by SAL II in this area could include:
Actions in the immediate term (y January 1997?)
*  Improve exit and registration procedures and performance standards (time limits,
simplified procedures, clear and reasonable appeal process etc.) for establishment of
private farms.
* Review farm restructuring pilot projects, disseminate the experiences with practical
guidelines and prepare a program to extend these projects to a program with national
coverage.
* Introduce a system of auctions for the marketing of concessional food grain deliveries.



Appendix B
Page 14 of 18
* Liberalize foreign trade in grain.
* Commence the functioning of Agricultural Restructuring Agency.
Actions in the short term (by March 1997?)
* Apply the new public procurement system (based on competitive tendering) to state
grain purchases.
*  Adopt legislation to establish a single land registration system (i.e. for urban and rural
land) and prepare action plan to implement the new land registration system together
with clear institutional arrangements and procedural regulations needed for a
functioning land market.
* Ensure that the new Civil Code provides the necessary legal framework for the land
market and refrain from introducing any laws or regulations that could hamper its
operations. [will the Civil Code be adopted by March? when can thie Bank
receive a copy of the draft law?]
*  Amend legislation on the normative pricing of land by eliminating or drastically
reducing normative prices and eliminating lease control. [the mission's prefered
option is to fully eliminate normative prices? what is Government's position?]
- Remove margin control in the bread production and stop indirect subsidization of
bread consumers [the Government wants to continue to subsidize two categories
of bread, how important is the sale of these categories? how will the subsidy be
administered? should the SAL support this action?]
*  Remove state intervention from milk pricing and eliminate budgetary subsidies to milk
producers [Government wants to maintain indirect subsidies. W'hat does this
mean? if Government is not ready for this reform, should we drop it from SAL
I?]
* Replace the use of reference prices for exports with the publication of non-biding price
information in agricultural foreign trade.
* Reduce import tariffs to a uniform maximum 20% level with the exception of luxury
goods (the latter category doesn't include fresh fruits and wine).
* Adopt a plan to complete the privatization of Cereale and Fertilitate.
Actions in the medium term (by September 1997?)
* Measurable progress in farm restructuring and farm debt restructuring (minimum 200
farms restructured and reorganized according to mutually agreed methods).
* Measurable progress in land titling and registration (10% of parcels aLre titled).
*  All of applications to exit from large-scale farms individually, submitted up to March
1997 are processed.
* Complete the privatization of Fertilitatea and Cereale according to a prograrm agreed
with the Bank.
Actions in the long term (wb, March 1998?)
* Measurable progress in farm restructuring and farm debt restructuring (mninimum 300
farms restructured and reorganized according to mutually agreed methods).
*  Measurable progress in land titling and registration (20% of parcels are titled).



Appendix B
Page 15 of 18
Actions before the end of the SAL IIroggram
*  Measurable progress in farm restructuring and farm debt restructuring (minimum 400
farms restructured and reorganized according to mutually agreed methods).
* Measurable progress in land titling and registration (30% of parcels are titled).
* All of applications to exit from large-scale farms individually, submitted up to March
1998 are processed.
Privatization
48.   Moldova's mass privatization programs achieved their objectives: they were fast,
transparent, fair and most Moldovan citizens invested their patrimonial bonds (PB) in
1,142 medium-sized and large joint stock companies (JSC) and 1,093 small-scale
enterprises (shops, coffee houses, etc.). As a result of mass privatization and development
of small private businesses, the private sector increased its share in production of goods
and services up to: 60 percent in industry; 70 percent in trade and "social services"
(restaurants, coffee houses, hair cut, etc.); and, 44 percent in construction and transport.
Around 3.1 million Moldovan citizens (90 percent of PB holders) participated in the mass
privatization. At the same time, 85 percent of public housing was also privatized.
49.   But the task of privatization is far from over. The state still owns a large amount
of productive assets. Moreover, the time has come to shift from voucher privatization to
privatization for cash. State owned productive assets include: (a) the leased premises of
about 2,000 small sized enterprises; (b) the land under already privatized JSC and small
scale enterprises; (c) the rest of State's shares in 585 companies which were approved by
Parliament to be privatized entirely during mass privatization but remained in State hands
because of low demand; (d) 121 small-sized enterprises, the State's controlling block of
shares (60 percent) in 41 JSC, and 7 so called "unique enterprises" which could not be
privatized for cash in 1995-1996; (e) the State's shares in about 311 JSC (between 30-60
percent) which were approved by Parliament to remain in the State ownership (the rest of
shares between 70 and 40 percent was privatized); and (f) small-sized, medium and large
enterprises which were not included in the previous two privatization programs, including
some of the most successful "wine combinats" and enterprises in energy and other
infrastructure sectors.
50.   The Government has shifted the focus of privatization from mass privatization for
vouchers to cash privatization. The Government believes that this new privatization
strategy will help: encourage domestic and foreign investment; bring about a rapid
restructuring of the privatized companies; and generate government revenues. A draft of
the Privatization Program for 1997-1998 (97/98PP) has been prepared by the Ministry of
Privatization and is expected to be approved by Parliament around the end of 1996.
51.   The draft 97/98PP contains most of state-owned productive assets, including: (i)
premises of all small sized enterprises which were leased by end of 1995 and the land
under privatized enterprises; (ii) small-scale enterprises which were approved to be
privatized for cash but remained unsold; (iii) most of State's shares in JSC; (iv) most of
small sized and medium and large enterprises which were left out of the previous



Appendix B
Page 16 of 18
privatization programs, including famous wine combinats and factories; and (v)
infrastructure sectors, including energy companies.
52.   The sale of leased premises and land under privatized enterprises is needed to
encourage small private businesses, and to extend the real estate market. To date, about
2000 leased premises have been identified as potential candidates for privatization. While
identification of other leased premises should continue, the Government plans to sell the
first 250 leased premises by end of March, 1997, another 750 by September 1997, and
another 1,000 by end of March 1998. Privatization of land under privatized enterprises
will support a faster restructuring of the enterprises, making them more attractive for
local and foreign investors, and providing them with a collateral for bank lending.
53.   The results of cash privatization in Moldova are well behind expectations. Out of
190 small-sized enterprises approved to be privatized for cash, only 45 were sold in 1995,
and 17 in 1996 (end of October). To expand cash privatization the Government plans to:
reduce the starting price after first auction if the small-sized enterprise is not sold; and
elirninate the income declaration requirement for citizens who want to participate in
auctions. The Government also plans to hold new type of auctions (e.g. Dutch auction).
The Government wants to encourage the participation of Moldovan citizens in cash
privatization. Therefore, it plans to: (a) create a mechanism for selling a small number of
shares to individuals, who may nolt be able to afford to buy large quantities, through public
offering and other mechanisms which can be developed by the Stock Exchange; and (b)
develop a system of payment facilities for Moldovan buyers (payment in installments, low
down-payment, etc.).
54.   The Government plans to privatize shares in hundreds of JSC and other State
Owned Enterprises (SOEs) that were left out of previous privatization programs. This is a
difficult task even for a country with a developed capital market where the JSCs and
SOEs have a business record. Each JSC or SOE will require a feasibility study in order to
choose an appropriate privatization strategy (based on its size, profile and rrarket
condition). Therefore, the draft 97/98PP includes a large menu of privatization methods
such as auctions; selling of shares through the Stock Exchange; public offering; trade
sales; debt-equity swaps; and capitalization of the privatized enterprises. The Government
also plans to extend privatization to infrastructure. It has drafted a project to open the
telecommunications sector to competition and private sector participation. It wants to
extend this experience to other infrastructure sectors, including transport; and energy.
55.   Effective implementation of the 97/98PP will require some institutional
strengthening. The shift of the Moldovan privatization program from mass privatization
to cash privatization requires new expertize in the Ministry of Privatization, in other
ministries which will participate in implementation of the infrastructure projects, and in
local consulting firms. Technical assistance will be needed for this purpose. Moreover,
the Government will allocate a parl: of the proceeds from privatization to implement the
97/98PP (a privatization find managed by the MOP).



Appendix B
Page 17 of 18
56.   Specific actions that may be supported by SAL II in this area could include:
Actions in the immediate term (by January 1997?)
* Propose a satisfactory p;rivatization program for 1997/1998 (97/98PP) which contains
all of small scale objects, state shares in companies and state enterprises which were
left out from the previous privatization programs, shares of companies that were only
partially privatized under previous programs, wine combinats, and infrastructure
companies (energy, comrnunications and transport).
* Approve and implement the draft resolution which sets the mechanisms for the sale of
shares still held by the State but which were approved to be privatized for patrimonial
bonds.
* Implement regulations to encourage Moldovans to participate in the cash privatization
program. This could include: allowing payment in installments, and allowing sale of a
small number of shares through public offerings.
* Start implementing resolution No 562 of October 23, 1996 concerning the sale of land
under privatized enterprises. Incentives for this sale should be created, including:
allowing payments in installments and eliminating (or lowering) normative prices for
land.
Actions in the short term (byMarch 1997?)
* Sale of 250 premises of s:mall scale objects that were leased by December 1995.
3 Eliminate barriers to the cash privatization of small scale objects already approved for
privatization; the Government will reduce the starting price after the first auction if
object is not sold; introduce a new type of auction (e.g Dutch auction); and eliminate
the income declaration for citizens who want to participate in auctions.
* Put in place a Technical Assistance program to support the implementation of the
97/98 privatization program, especially regarding cash privatization.
*  Ensure the proper functioning of the Share registry and transfer privatized companies
to that registry.
Actions in the medium term (by September 1997?)
* Sale of an additional 750 premises of small scale objects which were leased by
December 1995.
* Sale of ---- percent of land under privatized enterprises.
* Satisfactory progress in irnplemerfting the 1997/98 privatization program, including its
cash component.
* Satisfactory progress in small-scale privatization.
Actions in the long term (by March 1998?)
* Sale of an additional 1000 premises of small scale objects which were leased by
December 1995.
* Sale of---- percent of land under privatized enterprises.
*  Satisfactory progress in implementing the 1997/98 privatization program, including its
cash component.
* Satisfactory progress in small-scale privatization.



Appendix B
Page 18 of 18
Actions before the end of the SAL IIro-gram
* Completion of sale of land under privatized enterprises.
* Completion of the 1997/98 privatization program.
* Completion of small-scale privatization.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24285R3
28
T. 'TNemMov                                              M  O L D O V A
'-o, i!sv-        U   K  R  A   I N   E
d I'skiy J   g  \  v   sownni                                  o0      SELECTED CITIES
NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
.48'-                                                                                                RAILROADS
Florest                                     /                     >\0 >ROADS
RFb Rib nita  >           *      INTERNATIONAL
5<  t   Balti                    b <;    z                           BOUNDARIES
,       J              g           <                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rezina   >G 
\   / 0,J't,   /                     ~~~~~~by th. Mop Derir; Unit
To The World  S. -
--  To ngheni             \bY            \       >    /g8GrigoriopoS3                  or any enhe b doriemen -Y
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n thEs  _o r*, -IIAf \.TK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' T~~~~~~~~~a a o    Hsi                                                                    hp'W  ,1'          p nsr, 4
TOToro-                                                                                     of -h o BoIg  >d
\         HF(                   1   g      :) ToArlsiz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10     Toaab. rr~,  ,' 
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
thu A L Cimis a
Goloatil                                           D  c ' _ j SE.
KILOMETERS         I           A                                                                               Ta Ocles 
T Bicdod Constooto
MILES                                                            ,                    _=
.7 28T kfsi                                                                  300 -
APRIL 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:          16544
Type:      1CR



