Report No. PIC1775
Project Name                   Moldova-Structural Adjustment Loan (&)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Economy-wide
Project ID                     MDPA8554
Principal Responsible Entity   Ministry of Economy
Date PID Prepared              March 21, 1995
Appraisal Date                 September 10, 1994
Board Date                     December 8, 1994
Country Background
I.   In the USSR economy, Moldova was a producer of raw and processed
foodstuffs (primarily grapes, grains, wines, fruit, vegetables and
livestock). The country derives its comparative advantage from the
fertile soil and temperate climate. Agriculture accounted for about 40
percent of Net Material Product (NMP), while agro-industry contributed
approximately half of the aost 40 percent of NMP accounted for by the
industrial sector. The economy was designed to be highly interdependent
with other FSU countries, and trade continues to be a significant
proportion of GDP. In particular, Moldova is 99 percent dependent on
imports for primary energy resources. Characteristic of the FSU, the
economy is extremely energy-intensive.
II. As a result of the price liberalization which accompanied the
breakup of the FSU and exposure to world prices, Moldova experienced a
large terms of trade shock accounting for 30 percent of GDP in 1992
prices. Its economy was also hit by the disruption in payments and
declining trade within the FSU. In addition, Moldova was afflicted by
severe drought in 1992. In 1994, the sharp decline in FSU aggregate
demand has brought aost 70 percent of industry to a standstill, while
another severe drought, followed by hurricanes and floods, inflicted
significant losses of crops, herds, and infrastructure, compounding
Moldova's economic problems. Initial estimates of losses amount to $345
million, close to the estimated level of total current public
expenditure in 1994 of $374 million.
III. The cumulative decline in GDP since 1990 is over 60 percent.
Living standards have fallen sharply, with a fall in real average wages
of 53 percent between December 1992 and January 1994, and further
declines since then. The fall in output has not been reflected in
significant open unemployment, but the use of forced vacations is
widespread, and wage arrears for time actually worked are estimated at
around one-third of wages due for the economy as a whole; wage arrears
are much higher in agriculture.
IV. Since late 1993, Moldova has been following a tight monetary policy
supported by the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) and a
Stand-by arrangement. The program supported by the IMF includes market
allocation of credit, substantial declines in the rate of expansion in
base money and in net domestic assets, and strict ceilings on credit to



Government from the National Bank of Moldova (NBM) and the banking
system. The program allows for an increase in government expenditure on
the social sectors, but requires large savings in subsidies, together
with increases in tax revenue derived from removal of tax exemptions and
better compliance. The program has been successful in reducing
inflation from a monthly average of 20 percent in 1993 to 2-3 percent on
a monthly basis in the second half of 1994.
The Country's Adjustment Program
V.   Parliament adopted the concept and main principles of transition to
a market economy in successive sessions during 1990 and 1991. Since
then, the Government has set out its objectives and strategy for
comprehensive economic reform in documents presented to Parliament each
year and, since late 1992, has made considerable progress in creating
the conditions for structural change. Under the program supported by
the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan, the Government removed all export taxes
and aost all quantitative restrictions on exports,(see 1/) introduced a
new, generally much lower, import tariff, eliminated direct price
controls with few exceptions,(see 2/) and raised margin controls. A new
currency, the leu, was introduced in November 1993 and the exchange rate
is freely determined at regular inter-bank auctions held by the Chisinau
Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange (CIFCE). The autonomy of the NBM
has been strengthened; the authorities have tightened banking laws and
prudential regulations, and are starting on a program of institutional
development for the NBM and the commercial banks.
VI. The authorities have enhanced the environment for private sector
development through the improvements noted above in the trade and price
regime and regulatory framework. Progress has been less impressive in
some other aspects of the program. Privatization of small scale
businesses began in October 1993, but the program was initially subject
to delay for both political and technical reasons, and measures to
strengthen public enterprise governance are also lagging. The
Government has made efforts towards better targeting of social
protection, but further work is needed to restructure the social safety
net within existing fiscal limits. Despite the NBM's leadership in
reform, the commercial banks are slow to adjust, and existing credit
allocations to traditional clients have shown little change.
VII. On the other hand, there has been substantial progress in hardening
the budget constraint on enterprises, with extremely tight conditions
for new credit from the banking system and the withdrawal of aost all
government subsidies to enterprises. However, with the success of the
stabilization efforts, pressures broke out through other channels.
Financial constraints on enterprises were relieved through loan rollover
and capitalization of interest owed, through an outgrowth of arrears -
to suppliers, employees, banks, and the budget - and through default on
government guaranteed loans. Political pressures exerted by enterprises
for trade protection also resulted in the imposition of excessive import
tariffs on sensitive products including wine and carpets. The
combination of evasion of the hard budget constraint and slow ownership
change has tended to perpetuate past patterns of resource allocation and
output, with the result that change in the real economy remains
incipient.
-2-



The Proposed Loan or Credit
VIII.     The loan of US $60 million is made to the Republic of Moldova
represented by the Ministry of Finance as Borrower. The loan is
providing quick-disbursing balance of payments support on evidence that
imports of eligible goods have taken place. Disbursements are made to
the National Bank of Moldova (NBM) and an account of the Ministry of
Finance at the NBM is credited with the leu equivalent at the official
exchange rate of the day;(see 3/) the Government thereby receives non-
inflationary budget support. The foreign exchange proceeds of the loan
are sold by the NBM or held in reserves, in accordance with the
objectives of monetary policy.(see 4/) The loan has a maturity of 20
years including a five year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
IX. The program supported by the Loan comprises a set of key measures
needed to induce a quick response in the real economy to macroeconomic
tightening and sharp relative price movements. The program is thus
designed to produce the reallocation of resources needed to promote a
recovery in sustainable export-led growth, while providing for the most
vulnerable groups. The main foci of the program are: privatization;
hardening the budget constraint on enterprises; creating a competitive
environment; and better targeting of social benefits within fiscal
constraints.
X.   The program supported by the loan is also intended as a catalyst
for balance of payments support and provision of technical assistance by
other donors. Such support would be sought in the framework of a
Consultative Group meeting on Moldova.
XI. Poverty category: Poverty-focused. The loan supports improved
targeting of the social safety net through a reorientation of public
expenditures towards minimum benefits for pensioners and other
beneficiaries without other income from employment; a freeze on
earnings-related and minimum-wage related benefit entitlements; and
Government provision of severance pay and unemployment benefit for
unemployed workers in bankrupt or liquidated enterprises.
XII. Environmental category: The project will have no direct impact on
the environment. For the purposes of OD 4.01, it has been placed in
Category U which does not require an environmental assessment.
XIII.     Benefits:   The operation supports the development of a
competitive private market-based economy that promotes the efficient
allocation of resources for economic growth and improvement in living
standards. Such a response is essential in order to reverse the output
decline and induce structural change.
XIV. Risks: The main risks attached to the program are (i) potential
divisions within the Government and Parliament on the speed and depth of
politically sensitive reforms (the Government has a track record on
reform and now also has a majority in the Parliament; however, the
deepening of the reform process may revive this risk); (ii) the
disjunction between progress on stabilization and the delay in the
restoration of growth (this risk will be addressed by the structural
-3 -



reform program supported by the loan); (iii) capacity within the
administration may not be reinforced quickly enough to permit timely
implementation of the program (technical assistance is being mobilized
against this risk); (iv) sufficient balance of payments support may not
be forthcoming to sustain the program, forcing a lower level of imports,
aggravating the fall in output and living standards, and risking a
return to inflation (further assistance will be sought from the
international community to reduce this risk); and (v) continued
protectionism especially in Western Europe and/or delayed recovery in
the rest of the FSU could constrain Moldova's export-led recovery and
the restoration of its creditworthiness.
1/   Restrictions still remain on exports of grain, leather, and energy
products.
2/   The exceptions are public transport tariffs, charges for communal
services, housing rents, and the State procurement price for grain.
3/   The official exchange rate is defined in Moldova as the rate
determined at the latest auction in the Chisinau Interbank Foreign
Current Exchange (CIFCE)
4/   The NBM sells foreign exchnge to banks on behalf of their clients
(through the CIFCE auction) and to the Government for its own needs (at
the rate established in the latest auction).
Task Manager:
Helen Sutch, EC4C2
(202) 473-7742 (tel)
(202) 477-3378 (fax)
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



