Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11417
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 2252-CHA)
DECEKBER 10, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNOOC       China National Offshore Oil Corporation
CNPC        China National Petroleum Corporation
CNTIC       China National Technical Import Corporation
COCOM       Coordination Committee for Multilateral Export Control
DPAB        Daqing Petroleum Administrative Bureau
EOR         Enhanced Oil Recovery
GMC         Gas Management Company
GOC         Government of the People's Republic of China
ITC         International Tendering Company of CNTIC
LPG         Liquified Petroleum Gas
MIS         Management Information System
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOPI        Ministry of Petroleum Industry
NGL         Natural Gas Liquids
PCR         Project Completion Report
SPC         State Planning Commission
ZPEB        Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (CM)             =     35.3 cubic feet (CF)
1 thousand cubic meters (MCM) =      35.3 MCF
1 million cubic meters (MMCM) =      35.3 MMCF
1 billion cubic meters (BCM)  =      35.3 BCF
1 thousand cubic meters of
natural gas                  =     9.31 million kilocalories
1 ton oil equivalent (TOE)    =      10.2 million kilocalories
1 barrel (bbl) 0.85 SG
crude oil                    =     0.135 tons
=     0.159 CM
=     42 US gallons
1 kilogram coal
equivalent (KGCE)            -     0.64 kg oil equivalent (KGOE)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Yuan (Y)
Appraisal (Sept 1982) $1.0  =  Y 1.9
1990 $1.0  =  Y 5.23
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 10, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on China
Zhonavuan-Wenliu Petroleum Proiect (Loan 2252-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled "China -
Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum Project (Loan 2252-CHA)" prepared by the East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project achieved its main objectives and is rated as
satisfactory. Its sustainability is rated as likely. Transfer of technology
through the import of modern equipment and overseas training has taken place.
Additional oil reserves were discovered, gas by-products are being used instead
of being flared and oil production has increased.
The project completion took four years longer than planned, largely
due to lack of experience in implementing petroleum projects in China.   While
the original schedule was over-optimistic, more expeditious implementation would
have obtained had procurement and project management matters been delegated to
the implementing agency.
The PCR is comprehensive and informative. The project is scheduled
for audit in 1993, together with three other petroleum projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface ................ ...                                   li
Evaluation Summary ................                                . .     iii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background                   ...1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Design and Organization.. .                                        2
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .            .     .       3
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          4
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          9
Bank Performance...                                                        9
Borrower's Performance               ...10
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         10
Consulting Services                ...10
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         10
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .         11
PART III  STATISTICAL INPORMATION.. .. .                                    14
Related Bank Loans             . . . . . . . . .  .  .      .    .14
Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         14
Cumulative Estimated and Actual            ...                  .14
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         15
Project Costs and Financing..  .  . . .  . . . .                          17
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          18
Status of Covenants ...                                                   19
Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         24
ANNEXES
1. Economic Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          25
2.  Financial Analysis.. . .. . .. . . ..                                   27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



a
I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Zhongyuan-Wenliu
Petroleum Project in China, for which Loan 2252-CHA in the amount of US$100.8
million equivalent was approved on March 29, 1983. The loan was closed, after
four one year extensions of the closing date, on December 31, 1990. The last
disbursement was made on May 3, 1991. The undisbursed amount of US$4,210,272.52
equivalent was canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of
Country Department 2 of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation, Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's PCR mission in
May 1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and
Project Agreements; supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
The objectives of the project were to develop the oil production
potential of the South Wenliu oilfield, to explore the oil production potential
of the East Wenliu area, to recover liquified petroleum gas (LPG) from the
associated gas, and to transfer technology with institution building to the
Borrower's petroleum industry. (Part I, para. 1.1 to 1.4).
Implementation Experience
The project was successfully completed, achieving the main objectives.
The actual project costs were close to appraisal estimates (Part III. Table 3.5)
despite the delays and this was mainly due to cost over-estimates, lower than
expected market prices of imported goods ' and exemption from duties and taxes.
The Project completion was delayed by over four years. due to initial start up
delays caused by the Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau's (ZPEB) lack of
experience of Bank procedures; difficulties in completing the procurement of
equipment and acquisition of consulting services; inadequate institutional and
management experience in the implementation of such projects; the fragmentation
of responsibility between various Chinese agencies and their complex internal
processing and clearance procedures; and an overly optimistic implementation
schedule drawn up at appraisal due largely to the Bank's own lack of experience
in the implementation of petroleum projects in China. (Part I, paras. 1.9 and
1.10).
All the project components, with the exception of the reservoir
engineering study, Management Information System (MIS) and installation of some
training equipment, were completed by the closing date. The final phase of the
South Wenliu reservoir study was not completed when the consultant went bankrupt.
The MIS study was canceled at the request of ZPEB. The Bank's agreement was
based on the financial constraints of the project and ZPEB at the time and the
sustainability of the MIS due to ZPEB's limited absorptive capacity over the
medium term. Furthermore, the other studies and training under the Project and
other Bank activities were expected to contribute in enhancing ZPEB's managerial
capacity. The training study was completed about two years later than expected,
and as a result the installation of a drilling simulator and other equipment in
the training center was also delayed. However, the project scope was expanded
11   Petroleum exploration and development activities worldwide had a downward
trend in 1981-85, resulting in favorable prices for oilfield equipment and
services.



iv
in terms of additional wells using the new structural interpretation based on the
3-D seismic results. (Part I, para. 1.10).
Results
Although the main objectives were achieved, the targeted oil production
rates were not always reached due mainly to the unexpectedly complex geology of
the two oilfields.  In the development of South Wenliu field, the annual oil
production increased from 0.3 million tons in 1983 to a peak of 0.8 million tons
in 1987, compared to the appraisal estimate of a peak of 1.0 million.  Tho
exploration and appraisal of the East Wenliu field, however led to the discovery
of about 122 million tons of oil reserves compared to the 100 million tons
estimated at appraisal.   The development of the East Wenliu oilfield has
compensated for the shortfall in South Wmnliu production. The construction of
the LPG plant to process 1.0 million cubic meters (MMCM) of gas/day, and produce
about 150 tons of LPG and 0.8 MMCM of dry gas daily was completed in 1990. The
annual LPG production in 1990 was 12,500 tons, and output is expected to reach
52,800 tons in 1991. A transfer of technology was successfully achieved through
the overseas training of 256 of ZPEB's professional staff, on the job training
of technical staff in China provided by consultants and suppliers, and the
introduction of modern oilfield equipment into the field operations. The modern
equipment procured under the project for the computer center and laboratories
resulted in a marked improvement in operational techniques which contributed
towards the efficient appraisal and development of the South and East Wenliu
fields. In spite of the delays in the procurement process, the modern equipment
and techniques were effectively used in the oilfields in the later part of the
project. The use of 3-D seismic field survey methods for the project consider-
ably improved the understanding of the structure of the two fields.   The
modifications made in the appraisal and development plans for the fields as a
result of these surveys helped to increase oil production and reduced costs
through better well location (Part I, para. 1.12 and 1.25).
Sustainability
Although the proven oil reserves of the South Wenliu field were lower
than the appraisal estimates, there was an upward revision of the oil reserves
in the East Wenliu field, and the Zhongyuan area which includes several oil and
gas fields in addition to the Wenliu fields has become significant in maintaining
national oil production. The area is currently ranked fourth among the country's
largest oil producers. ZPEB is continuing its efforts to increase oil recovery
from the South Wenliu and East Wenliu fields by extending the use of the modern
techniques introduced in the project.  The additional LPG and other products
being produced from the natural gas liquid extracted from the associated gas,
which was previously being flared, will contribute significantly to ZPEB's
economic benefits. The improved technology introduced under the project vill
certainly continue to be used in the development of the whole area, and in oil
and gas developments elsewhere in China. (Part I, paras. 1.36-1.37).



v
Findines and Lessons Learned
Several factors contributed to the early delays in project implemen-
tation, viz: ZPEB's lack of familiarity with the Bank's procurement procedures
and management of a complicated multi-faceted project, cumbersome internal
processing and clearance procedures, and extended delays in contract nego-
tiations.   Unlike the offshore companies under China National Offshore Oil
Corporation (CNOOC) who were allowed to procure goods/services directly, ZPEB
had to procure after clearance by the China National Petroleum Corporation
(CNPC), formerly the Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI), and International
Tendering Company (ITC) of China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC),
and this slowed procurement throughout the project (Part I, par&. 1.7).  In
future projects in China arrangements should be made for the central authorities
to delegate procurement to the local. implementing entity and, where possible, use
should be made of the Chinese management personnel who have experience in Bank
procedures.   In this type of appraisal and development project, where the
operational plan often needs modification depending on the early results,
sufficient flexibility should be included in the original project design to allow
for such modifications. In this project the Bank assisted the Borrower in making
modifications in the project components, e.g., in the introduction of the waste
water treatment study and the modified drilling program (Part I. paras. 1.4-
1.10). In retrospect, the Bank could have also helped by preparing focussed
terms of reference during project preparation rather than leaving this to the
supervision missions. It could also have agreed to a more realistic implementa-
tion plan based on institutional conditions and taking into account centralized
decision-making in China. In terms of achieving sustained benefits of activities
initiated under the project, the importance of appropriate domestic pricing for
oil and gas deserves further attention.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CHA)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prolect Identity
Project Name :    Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum Project
Loan Number  :    2252-CHA
RVP Unit          East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country      s   China
Sector       s   Energy
Subsector         Petroleum
B. Background
1.1       China's achievement in developing its energy resources in the past
four decades has been impressive.   In the petroleum sector, oil production
increased from 0.1 million tons in 1950 to about 138 million tons in 1989.
However, during the early 1980., after achieving a high production level in
1979, there was a decline in oil production from the existing fields.  The
Government of China (GOC) then increased its efforts to discover and develop
new hydrocarbon resources.  Initially, these efforts vere hampered by a lack
of modern petroleum technology in both onshore and offshore operations.  In
the early 1980s, GOC requested Bank assistance in the development of the
petroleum sector. The maintenance of a strong petroleum sector was considered
to be of fundamental importance to the continued development of China's
economy, and the Bank agreed to assist GOC.  The Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum
Project was the second of five Bank projects in the petroleum sector, the
first operation being the Daqing Oilfield-Gaotaizi Reservoir Development
Project (Loan 2231-CHA) approved in 1983.   In accordance with the Bank's
current petroleum guidelines (OMS 3.82), the Bank will generally not in future
participate in similar oil development projects without co-financing or the
participation of the private sector.
C. Proiect Oblectives and DescriDtion
1.2       The objectives of the project were to develop the oil production
potential of the South Wenliu Oilfield, to explore and evaluate the oil
production potential of the East Wenliu area, to extract LPG from the
associated gas which was being flared, to ensure a transfer of technology and
thereby enhance efficiency in exploration, production and gas processing and
strengthen the institutional capabilities of Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration
Bureau (ZPEB) through staff training and the modernization of their oilfield
operating practices.



2
1.3       The project comprised the following components:  3-D seismic field
surveys and the processing and interpretation of the seismic data over an area
of 100 km2 in the South and East Wenliu areas funded from the Daqing project;
the development of the South Wenliu oilfield, including the drilling of 204
production and injection wells, construction of surface facilities, water and
gas injection facilities, associated gas treatment and compression facilities,
utilities and infrastructure; the exploration of the East Wenliu area by
drilling 13 exploration and appraisal wells; natural gas liquids (NGL)
recovery, including the construction of a plant and ancillary facilities to
process 1 MMCMIday of associated gas which had previously been flared, to
extract LPG and other products from the NGL; setting up of laboratories for
core, oil, water and gas analyses, cement and mud testing; the establishment
of a computer center for storing and processing technical, administrative and
financial data; establishment of a center equipped with simulators, visual and
other teaching aids for training skilled workers; import of oilfield equipment
for drilling, logging, cementing, stimulation, well completions and workovers;
the provision of technical assistance and six major technical studies.  The
technical studies comprised:  (a) design of the LPG plant; (b) drilling and
well completion practices; (c) reservoir study of the South Wenliu field;
(d) oilfield safety practices; (e) MIS for ZPEB; and (f) the design of
curricula and teaching methods for use in the Training Center. Provision was
also made for possible pre-investment studies for other projects which might
be identified in the petroleum sector for Bank financing.
1.4       However, the project scope had to be increased during implementation
in an attempt to reach the production targets set for the area (para. 1.10).
It was found that ZPEB was having problems in handling produced and reinjected
water. At the Bank's suggestion, ZPEB agreed to include a water treatment
study in the project to deal with water pollution and other problems relating
to water flooding in the South Wenliu field. The MIS study was considered to
be too expensive and unnecessary at that time, and was canceled at the request
of ZPEB. The reservoir study of the South Wenliu field was stopped when the
consultant went bankrupt.   However, the study was later completed by ZPEB
staff using the equipment and software provided by the consultant.
D.   Prolect Design and Organization
1.5 -    The project was designed to respond to GOC's request for assistance
in modernizing  their petroleum sector.   It was designed  specifically to
improve the capability of ZPEB to explore and develop the structurally complex
Zhongyuan area, where the technical problems of appraisal and development
drilling are much more difficult than in the Daqing area, the site of the
first Bank-assisted oil project.  ZPEB had prepared the development program
for the area and, after discussions with Bank staff, it was agreed that
advanced 3-D seismic techniques would be used to define the geological
structure of the fields. Deep drilling techniques suitable for drilling into
high pressure formations were to be introduced. An LPG plant was to be built
to treat the associated gas and produce LPG and other liquid products from the
NGLs which had previously been flared. The project was innovative in that it
introduced advanced technologies not then available in China, and it provided
computer capacity and training in a local center set up under the project, to
enable local staff to continue this work themselves.



- 3 -
1.6       The project was well prepared and it fitted well with the timing of
ZPEB's plan to develop the area. The role of the operating companies was well
defined, but the role of the central government organizations, particularly in
procurement and awarding contracts, was greater and slower, than originally
anticipated.
1.7       The difficulties in project implementation arose mainly from the
slowness of the central authorities to make and implement decisions.  Unlike
the China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) and its offshore operating
unit, which were directly responsible for procuring Bank-financed goods/
services, ZPEB initiated procurement actions which had to be cleared through
China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) and finalized by International
Tendering Company/China National Technical Import Corporation (ITC/CNTIC).
These bureaucratic procedures and the relative inexperience of ZPEB in project
management adversely affected overall project implementation.
E.   Proiect Implementation
1.8       After four extensions of the closing date, the loan was closed on
December 31, 1990. Although there were extended delays in the project imple-
mentation, the project was successfully completed, achieving practically all
targets anticipated at appraisal, with substantial cost underrun.
1.9       The main factors contributing to the delays in project completion
were the slow preparation of bidding documents and technical specifications
followed by delays in soliciting and evaluating bids. These were followed by
protracted contract negotiations for both goods and services, and there were
frequent changes in the scope of work of the consultant studies.   During
implementation, there was a lack of clear understanding between ZPEB and the
consultants on the scope of the contracts.  The construction of buildings by
ZPEB for the laboratories,  computer center,  training center,  and surface
facilities was slower than planned.  The expansion of project scope in the
South and East Wenliu oilfield development to achieve the oil production and
proven reserves targets required extra time. In retrospect, given the lack of
experience of ZPEB in Bank-assisted projects,  the implementation schedule
anticipated at the time of appraisal was overly optimistic.   The export
restrictions imposed by the Coordination Committee for Multilateral Export
Control (COCOM) caused long delays in the issuance of an export license for
the computers.
1.10      The South Wenliu oilfield development,  using the new structural
interpretation based on the 3-D seismic results, required more wells to
produce the many small fault blocks found in the field. A total of 354 wells
were drilled compared to the 204 wells planned, and surface facilities had to
be completed to handle production from the extra wells.   The planned East
Wenliu program of 6 exploration and 7 appraisal wells was completed
successfully.   It was  followed by an appraisal and development  drilling
program of 293 wells to develop the field. The LPG Plant design, construction
and commissioning was delayed by the slow start of the bidding process, and
when the bids were received the specifications were modified, which
necessitated rebidding. Based on the evaluation of the second round of bids,
the turnkey contract for a 1 MMCM day capacity LPG plant was awarded.  The
construction commenced in February 1988 with target commissioning by October
1989.



- 4 -
Although the construction and erection of the plant was completed, its commis-
sioning encountered further delays and the plant was fully comissioned in
March 1991 after a delay of about 18 months. The delay in commissioning the
plant was due to fire damage sustained by 90 packages of equipment in the port
of Xingang and the subsequent repair or reordering of damaged equipment; poor
coordination and site management by the foreign prime contractor and local
subcontractor contributed to the delays.
F.   Proiect Results
1.11      ZPEB was able to achieve the main project objectives of developing
the South Wenliu oilfield, proving additional oil reserves in East Wenliu, and
installing an LPG plant to recover products from the associated gas.   The
transfer of technology was achieved through the import of modern equipment and
techniques and the related training given by the suppliers.   Although the
procurement delays affected the training process, the results of the technical
assistance and training have been substantial.  ZPEB's own capabilities and
its ability to assist other petroleum organizations in China have been
significantly enhanced.
South Wenliu Oilfield
1.12      In 1987, ZPEB estimated the proven oil reserves at about 46 million
tons compared to the 48 million tons estimated at appraisal.  The annual oil
production is given in the table below:
OIL PRODUCTION PROFILE
('000 tons oil/year)
Year               1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Oil Production      286     557      720     760      870     770      644     580
1.13      The oil production is lower than the appraisal estimates.   The
cumulative oil production by end 1990 was 5.2 million tons compared to the
appraisal estimate of 6.4 million tons.
East Wenliu Area
1.14      ZPEB's exploration strategy in East Wenliu was revised in the light
of the 3-D seismic results which identified a large number of small complex
fault blocks.  The results of the 13 exploration and appraisal wells showed
that the East Wenliu field contained significant oil reserves.  ZPEB drilled
293 appraisal and development wells on the field and proved about 122 million
tons of oil reserves, compared to the appraisal estimate of 100 million tons.
The oil production from East Wenliu started in 1986.   By end 1990, about
3.9 million tons of oil had been produced.



-5-
Computer Center
1.15      A new computer center was constructed and equipped under the project
providing  capacity  for:    (a)  2-D  and  3-D  seismic  data  processing  and
interpretation; (b) reservoir engineering studies; (c) database management for
oil field operations; and (d) a computer aided design system.   ZPEB staff
received both overseas and on-the-job training in computer operations, and
have been successfully operating the computer center since 1988, providing
services to ZPEB and to other oil fields in China.
Seismic Surveys
1.16      As a result of acquiring, processing and interpreting 3-D seismic
data  over  an  area  of  about  200  km2  in  South  and  East  Wenliu,  ZPEB's
capabilities in seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation have
been greatly enhanced.   The 3-D seismic interpretation resulted in a better
sub-surface structural picture of the fault blocks in the two fields.   The
results were used to locate the development and water injection wells so as to
maximize production.
Laboratories
1.17      Modern laboratories for rocks and fluid analyses were set up and
ZPEB staff were trained overseas at the supplier's facilities to operate and
maintain the new equipment procured under the project.   On-the-job training
was provided by the suppliers specialists during the commissioning of the
equipment.    ZPEB  has  been  using  these  facilities  to  gain  a  better
understanding  of  the  reservoir  characteristics,  and  to  ensure  efficient
reservoir management and enhanced oil recovery.
Drilling and Well Completion Study
1.18      The consultants reviewed the existing practices and the problems
related to drilling through deep salt layers and made recommendations on the
drilling techniques to be used. These recommendations were used successfully
to drill a deep well under specialist supervision. ZPEB later used the
techniques learned to improve their own drilling performance from having no
successful wells from five attempts between 1975 and 1981, to completing all
the 120 wells drilled from 1986 to 1988 after the completion of the study.
The drilling study was also translated into Chinese and distributed to other
petroleum bureaus in China.
LPG Design Study
1.19      This study assisted ZPEB in the design of the LPG plant in Zhongyuan
and formed the basis for awarding a turnkey contract for the plant.  During
the study, ZPEB staff were provided with a general training in the design of
gas processing plants by the consultants.
Safetv Study
1.20      The study addressed the main safety issues in oilfield operations in
the area.   The recommendations made by the consultants were implemented by
ZPEB.   Between 1985 and 1990, the incidence of accidents was reduced from
0.3 percent  to 0.1 percent.   This  study report was  also translated  into
Chinese and has been provided to other petroleum entities in China.



-6-
Trainina Study
1.21      The consultants designed the curricula for use in the training
center.   They trained Chinese teachers  in Zhongyuan and overseas in the
methodology of preparing such curricula and in the use of modern audio-visual
teaching methods.   The  first building  in the training  center  opened  in
September 1990 with 300 skilled workers being trained.   Two more buildings
opened in March 1991.   The center will eventually be capable of training
around 3,000 technical workers annually when fully operational.
Water Treatment Studv
1.22      This study was not included in the project at appraisal.  However,
during supervision, Bank staff noted pollution and reinjection problems
related to the use of produced water in water flooding in the field and
suggested this study.   The consultants reviewed the existing situation and
made recommendations on injection water treatment and waste water disposal.
Based on this study, ZPEB set up a modern water treatment facility which is
operating satisfactorily. The training given to ZPEB staff, both overseas and
in the field, has also proved useful in applying modern water treatment
techniques in other oil fields.
Reservoir Study
1.23      This study was delayed due to the bankruptcy of the consultant in
1988.  At that time about 80 percent of the tasks had been completed.  ZPEB
staff had worked closely with the consultants in their home office and had
been trained in the use of modern techniques of reservoir analysis. The
software used during the study was transferred to ZPEB, and with the training
they had been given, ZPEB staff using the new computer center facilities were
able  to complete  the  study.   The  techniques  learned by ZPEB  staff  are
currently being used to monitor reservoir performance in the South and East
Wenliu oil fields, and to optimize production.
Transfer of Technol oa
1.24      The  transfer  of  technology was  achieved  by  the  supply  of new
equipment, the training of ZPEB staff in the use of the equipment which was
provided by the suppliers, and the training of ZPEB staff during the
consultant studies.   ZPEB staff responded well to the training,  and new
equipment has been used very effectively in oilfield operations. The benefits
of the modern technology have been spread by ZPEB to other oil fields where
the services are being used.
Training
1.25      During implementation of the contracts for consultancy services and
for the supply of imported equipment, a total of 256 persons from ZPEB were
trained overseas for a total of 790 man-months. The benefits of the transfer
of technology in reservoir performance monitoring, well logging and testing,
reservoir simulation, 3-D seismic data acquisition and processing, laboratory
work and computer applications were demonstrated by the efficient use made of
the equipment by ZPEB staff in the later part of project implementation.  By
the end of the project they were using the equipment and new techniques
independently.



-7-
Proiect Costs
1.26      The  total  financing  requirement  for  this  project   mounted  to
$427.04 million equivalent, including a front end fes of $0.75 million as
compared with the appraisal estimate of $499.80 million (Part III, Table 3.5).
In RMB terms, the total coats amounted to Y 1,301.23 million and exceeded the
appraisal estimate of Y 949.45 million by 37 percent. The cost overrun in RMB
terms could be attributed to the increase in the project scope and the
increased cost of buildings construction. However, these figures are affected
by lower than expected inflation rates, exemption from import duties/taxes and
15 percent physical contingencies which were included in the appraisal
estimates. The cost underrun of about 14 percent in US Dollar terms reflecto
the impact of the significant devaluation of the RMB against the US Dollar.'
Proiect Financing
1.27      A  comparison  of  actual  project  financing  with  the  appraisal
estimates is given in Part III, Table 3.5. Under the loan, $96.8 million was
onlent to ZPEB for the project, the remainder of the foreign exchange
requirements amounting to $62.2 million were financed by ZPEB/CNPC through
their own resources. The tubulars were centrally procured by CNPC (then MOPI)
and provided to ZPEB against local curroncy payments.   All local currency
expenditures were financed from ZPEB's own resources.
Disbursements
1.28      A comparison of actual disbursements with tho appraisal estimates is
given  in  Part  III,  Table  3.3.    The  procurement  and  consequently  the
disbursements were delayed considerably.   The closing data was *xtended by
four years to complete the project.   The costs of the imported goods and
services $158.2 million were close to the appraisal estimate of $156.7
million.  The Bank loan of $100.8 million was 96 percent disbursed and the
remaining amount of $4.2 million was canceled.
Loan Allocation
1.29      The original estimated and the actual loan allocation is given in
Part III, Table 3.5.  Unallocated funds were largely devoted to meeting the
increased cost of the LPG plant and other equipment and materials to enhance
the operational capacity of ZPEB.
Economic Reevaluation
1.30      The quantifiable benefits of the project arise from the development
of the South Wenliu and East Wenliu oil fields in the form of increased oil
and gas production, and from the processing of the associated gas in the LPG
plant. Around 1 MMCM of this associated gas is being processed to give about
150 tons/day of LPG and around  0.8 MMCM of dry gas.   As  a result  of
considerably lower world oil prices and lower production/recovery rates than
originally anticipated, and a four year delay in the onset of benefits, the
economic rate of return for the project is currently estimated at 49 percent
compared with the appraisal estimate of 74 percent (Annex 1).  Similarly and
The exchange rate  at project  appraisal was  $1 - Y 1.9 and at
completion was $1 - Y 5.23.



-8-
based on ZPEB's latest reserves estimates and projected production profile,
the net present value of the project (at 12 percent discount rate) is now
estimated at $156 million, as compared against the appraisal estimate of
$942 million.
Financial Performance
1.31      ZPEB's  Finances.   Salient  features of ZPEB's  finances  over the
period  1983-90 are summarized  in Annex 2.   Domestic  oil prices  remained
considerably  lower  than  international  oil  prices.   The  actual  financial
results for 1983-86 fell short of expectations mainly because the domestic oil
and gas price increases as well as the oil production envisaged at the time of
project appraisal did not materialize.   The delay in completion of the LPG
plant also contributed to ZPEB's financial results.
1.32      Despite a declining and fluctuating profitability, ZPEB's cash
generation has  remained  satisfactory.   Over the past  five years,  it has
maintained an adequate or even high self-financing ratio of no less than 30
percent and a debt service coverage ratio of no less than 4 times.  However,
these traditional cash generation indicators for enterprises fail to reflect
the broader issue of financing shortfalls for sector development.   In the
absence of remedial measures, including narrowing the gap between domestic and
international oil prices and phasing out subsidized gas prices, the issue of
financing constraints will become increasingly serious since operating and
maintenance costs are increasing at a fast pace while production is already on
the decline.
1.33      Since ZPEB  is not  operated on a typical  commercial basis,  its
financial performance especially with regard to operating efficiency cannot be
measured in the same manner as a commercially oriented enterprise, and the
application of the Bank's normal financial covenants for revenue and/or cash
generation   is  of   limited   significance.        For   these   reasons,   the
conditionalities did not include any traditional financial performance
covenant.    Instead,  the  Bank's  objective  to  promote  prudent  financial
management was achieved through ZPEB's compliance with the financial covenant
which required ZPEB preparing long-term financial planning, focusing on its
trend of production costs, budget variance analysis, as well as its future
investment program and related financing arrangements, and annually reviewing
such plans with the Bank.
1.34      Proiect  Finances.       Domestic  oil,  LPG  and  gas  prices  are
significantly lower than international prices.  Based on the assumption that
ZPEB's oil, gas, and LPG production levels and prices will be at the present
level during the rest of the project life, the financial rate of return of the
project is now estimated at 9.3 percent if the products from the project are
priced at the above-quota prices and 0.5 percent if priced at average prices,
as compared with the appraisal estimate of 14 percent (Annex 2).  The low
financial rate of return reflects mainly the fact that domestic prices are
significantly lower than border prices.
Environmental Impact and Safety
1.35      ZPEB  paid  due  attention  to  environmental  and  water  pollution
considerations  in  the  performance  of  the  drilling,  production  and  gas
processing operations. The water treatment study was completed and new water
treatment stations were built to treat the produced water. The oil separated



-9-
from the water was blended with the produced oil, and the produced water was
reinjected into the reservoir.   Since the associated gas produced is sulfur
free, it posed no environmental problems.   Prior to the project, the safety
arrangements   in  Zhongyuan  were   inadequate.         ZPEB   implemented   the
recommendations made by the consultants in the safety study, and as a result
there was asignificant reduction in the number of accidents on the fields.
The recommendations of the safety study are also being implemented by other
petroleum organizations in China.
G. Prolect Sustainability
1.36      Although the estimated reserves and oil production levels in South
Wenliu are somewhat lower than the appraisal estimates, the increased reserves
(22 percent over SAR estimates) in East Wenliu, and the prospects of finding
additional reserves in the fault blocks in South East Wenliu are likely to
increase future oil production in Zhongyuan.   The Zhongyuan area includes
several other oil fields and is currently ranked fourth in the oil production
areas in China.   ZPEB aims to optimize ultimate recovery from the area by
applying modern reservoir monitoring techniques and using 3-D seismic methods,
deep production in-fill wells, water flooding and other secondary recovery
methods to maintain oil production. The additional high value products (e.g.,
ethane, propane, butane, and gasoline) recovered from the associated gas
should enhance ZPEB's future revenues.
1.37      In view of the importance of maintaining and developing this oil and
gas producing area and the success of the methods introduced, it is reasonable
to expect that the project results will continue to be used, and where
possible further developed.
H. Bank Performance
1.38      As  in  the  case  of  the  Daqing  Project,  the  Bank  contributed
significantly in technology transfer and institution building under this
project.   Bank staff worked closely with ZPEB in designing the technical
assistance and training components and modifying the project design where
necessary to achieve the project objectives.   They assisted ZPEB with the
procurement and mobilization of the consultants.  During project supervision
Bank staff exchanged views on technical and implementation aspects and
assisted ZPEB in resolving the problems as they arose.  In general, the Bank
performed well; however, in retrospect, the Bank could have assisted in
reducing implementation delays for procurement of goods and consultancy
services by assisting in preparing the bidding documents and more focussed
terms of reference for the studies during the project preparation and
appraisal phase, rather than leaving this until project implementation.
I. Borrower's Performance
1.39      Extended  delays  in  procurement  and  the  implementation  of  the
physical components of the project occurred due to the relative inexperience
of ZPEB in the management of a comprehensive multi-faceted project.   ZPEB
formed a special unit for this project which facilitated the coordination and
monitoring of the implementation and reporting aspects.  Further, in spite of
the expansion of project scope, close monitoring and control of the budget
contributed to the completion of the project within the budget.  ZPEB worked
well towards achieving the project objectives of technology transfer, training
and induction of modern equipment in its operation.



- 10 -
J. Proiect RelationshiR
1.40      The  Bank  and  ZPEB  developed  and  maintained  a  good  working
relationship during project implementation.
K. Consultant Services
1.41      The consultants played a major role in the success of the project.
With one exception (para. 1.23), they performed well. Their work and
recommendations were greatly appreciated by ZPEB. The training of local staff
by the consultants, contractors and equipment suppliers was generally very
good. ZPEB staff gained valuable experience while working with the
consultants, both in China and in the consultants home offices.
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
1.42      The Staff Appraisal Report and Loan Documents proved adequate in
project implementation.  Supervision reports proved useful in the review of
the progress of the projects. ZPEB's detailed and comprehensive report which
was contributed for inclusion as Part II of this PCR and the other data
provided by ZPEB were very useful in preparing the PCR. Because of the length
and detail of the ZPEB report, the text has been summarized for inclusion as
Part II of this PCR, and the data given in the tables has been used in
compiling the tables in Part III. A copy of the full ZPEB report is included
in the project file.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CRA)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2.1       The final outcome of the project was highly successful.  The early
stages of the exploration and development of the Zhongyuan fields had been
difficult due to the complex geological structure, and the lack of modern
techniques and equipment needed to solve the problems. The Chinese Gov-rnment
decided to request World Bank assistance and a loan to fund the project.
Following discussions between ZPEB and the Bank a project was designed based
on the ZPEB plan for the development of the South Wenliu oilfield, the
exploration and appraisal of the East Wenliu area, and the design and
construction of a gas processing plant to use the associated gas being
produced with the oil.   New oilfield equipment was to be purchased and
training provided in the use of the equipment. Technical assistance was to be
provided and six technical studies carried out using overseas contractors
working with ZPEB staff.   The targets set in the appraisal report were
generally achieved, and helped by the project.  Zhongyuan has become one of
China's modern oil fields contributing significantly to the national output of
oil.
2.2       The total cost of the project was Y 1,251.3 million, made up of
Y 692.0 million local expenditure and $158.9 million foreign exchange of which
$96.6 million was provided by the World Bank loan and $62.3 million by the
Chinese Government.  In addition $6.3 million for the 3-D seismic survey was
provided from the Daqing Gaotaizi Development Project.
Proiect Achievements
2.3       The project objectives have been largely achieved in the development
of the South Wenliu field and the exploration and appraisal of the East Wenliu
field, the utilization of the associated gas which vas being flared, and the
building of ZPEB's institutions and training facilities. In the South Wenliu
area, 354 wells were drilled and 47.8 million tons of oil have been proven.
In 1987, 800,000 tons of oil and 134 million CM of gas were produced. In East
Wenliu, following the exploration drilling and the development of the field,
proven roserves of 122 million tons of oil have been found.  The LPG plant
capable of processing 1.2 million CM of associated gas was put into operation
on October 14, 1990.  Laboratories and the computer center have been set up
and a training center has been established.  A transfer of technology has
taken place through the supply of modern equipment and materials, and
providing on the job training in their use, and through the training of a
total of 256 ZPEB staff, who spent around 790 man-months abroad, in the
manufacture  and use  of the  equipment  supplied  under  the project.   The
continuing training of ZPEB's staff has been assured by the building of a
This is a sumary of a very comprehensive completion report by the
executive unit of the Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau.  A
copy-of the complete ZPEB report, dated March 31, 1991, is included
in-the project file.



- 12 -
comprehensive technical training facility capable of training 3,000 skilled
workers annually in Zhongyuan. Of the six technical studies planned under the
project, viz., (a) design of the LPG plant, (b) drilling and completion
practices, (c) reservoir engineering of the South Wenliu field, (d) teaching
methods and curricular, (e) management Information System, and (f) oilfield
safety practices--four were completed and a seventh study was added.
2.4       The MIS study was canceled at the request of ZPEB, and with the
agreement of the Bank.  An injection water treatment study was added during
implementation when it was found that untreated water was causing reduced
injectivity and corrosion problems in the wells.  The results of the studies
are summarized below. The design of the plant was completed successfully, and
in October 1990, the plant was commissioned albeit with a five year delay.
The drilling study was completed in three phases:  (a) the study phase which
began with the collection of data in December 1984, and ended in September
1985 with the final review meeting; (b) operations, which began when the well
PS 9 was spudded in May 1986 and ended in November 1987 when the well was
completed; and (c) the training phase when eleven engineers went to France for
training  at the consultants  headquarters.   The  drilling  study was  very
successful and resulted in improved drilling performance, reduced drilling
timers, and success in drilling in the difficult conditions in East Wenliu.
In that area between 1975 to 1981, five wells were attempted but all failed.
After the study, between 1986 to 1988, one hundred twenty wells were drilled
and successfully completed in East Wenliu, in * 100 percent successful
program.
2.5       The reservoir engineering study ended when the consultant became
bankrupt in 1988 and the contract was terminated. Although the study was not
completed by the consultants there were some benefits from it.  Twenty-two
ZPEB staff went to the USA for a total 94 man-months of training in reservoir
engineering.   The software was acquired by ZPEB and the study was  later
completed using the computer facilities installed under the project.   The
teaching methods and curricula study for the training center was carried out
in two stages. After the first stage of data collection and review which was
completed in January 1986.  ZPEB reduced the scope of the second stage and the
study was completed in April 1989. Training in the center began in September
1990. When the center is fully operational three thousand skilled worker will
be trained each year.  The safety practices study began in August 1985 and
ended in February 1986. The findings of the study are being implemented. The
water treatment study was added to the project during implementation when it
was found that the untreated water being injected was causing plugging of the
formations and corrosion problems in the wells and pipelines. The study began
in February 1987 and was completed successfully in March 1991.
Results
2.6       During the implementation of the project oil and gas production and
utilization and the known oil and gas reserves were increased. The proven oil
reserve in South Wenliu is now 48 million tons, and in East Wenliu 122 million
tons. Production from Zhongyuan has risen from 286,000 tons of oil and 15.22
MMCM gas in 1983 to 580,000 tons of oil and 107.58 MMCM gas by 1990.
2.7       Prior to the project ZPEB had been having difficulties in drilling
deep wells, particularly in East Wenliu, where from 1975 to 1981 five wells
had been attempted without success.   Following the drilling study and the
associated training, and using new equipment and materials supplied under the
project, between 1986 and 1988 one hundred twenty wells were drilled by ZPEB
without a failure. The drilling time per well has been reduced from 242 days



- 13 -
in 1984 to 105 days in 1988.
2.8       The LPG plant was designed and ZPEB staff were trained by the
consultant by taking part in the design work. The plant was constructed with
a delay of five years, due mainly to delays in the procurement.  This delay
together the fall in the price of oil and gas reduced the benefit from an
estimated $482 million at appraisal to $172 million.
Role of the Bank
2.9       World Bank staff were well qualified to give advice and make
recommendations, and were helpful in giving expert advice.   They were most
helpful in providing guidance on the procurement of equipment.  Their advice
to procure high quality modern equipment was sound, as was their suggestion
that the associated gas should be processed instead of wasted by flaring. The
addition of the water treatment study to the project during implementation
also proved to be very useful.
Role of GOC and ZPEB
2.10      The government initiative to have the Bank provide a loan for the
project and government assistance in organizing and providing additional
personnel when needed, throughout the implementation of the project proved
important to the project's success.   ZPEB set up a complete organization
comprising a Foreign Affairs Department, including a Special Planning Division
and a Foreign Finance Department, in ZEPB's finance department to deal with
foreign currency accounting. A natural gas company and No. 2 drilling company
were established especially for the project.  Much of the project's success
was due to the hard work and competence of ZPEB staff who worked on the
project.
Proiect Relationships
2.11      During the promotion and implementation of the project,  a good
relationship between the ZPEB, government agencies and the Bank staff was
established and maintained. This relationship and the discussions during the
project supervision were very fruitful, and led to several useful changes in
project scope which helped achieve the project objectives. Some delays might
have been avoided if a continuity in the staff involved had been maintained.
Findings and Lessons Learned
2.12      The use of a World Bank loan for such a large technical project
proved to be successful.   The Bank's procurement procedures benefitted the
Borrower, promoted competition and ensured the efficient transfer of technol-
ogy.   The long delay in implementation which extended the duration of the
project from 2.5 to 7.5 years were due mainly to lack of experience of both
ZPEB and the Bank in implementing this type of project in China.   The long
delay in the implementation of the project meant that there were many changes
in the key staff involved in the project. The President of ZPEB, for example,
changed four times during the project. These changes of personnel inevitably
caused delays in implementation.






14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CHA)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
3.1 Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                      Purpose        Approval   Status              Comments
Daqing Oilfield-Gaotaizi  Oilfield Development,   1983  Satisfactory      Completion Date
Reservoir Development    Enhance oil recovery,                             June 30, 1990
Project (Ln. 2231-CHA)     TA and Training
Liaodong Bay Petroleum   Gas Development and TA  1986  Satisfactory       Completion Date
Appraisal and Technical                                              Original: Dec., 31, 1989
Assistance Project                                                    Latest:  Jan.  16, 1990
(Ln. 2708-CHA)
Karamay Petroleum        Petroleum Exploration,  1984  Satisfactory         Completion Date
Project (Ln 2426-CIA)    Heavy Oil Recovery, TA                             March 31, 1991
and Training
Weiyuan Gas Field         Gas Field Rehabili-    1985  Satisfactory       Completion Date
Technical Assistance        tation, TA and                            Originals June 30, 1991
Project (Ln. 2580-CHA)         Training                                Latest: June 30, 1992
3.2 Project Timetable
Item                                                                    Actual date
Identification Mission                                                  September 1981
Preappraisal Mission                                                    February 1983
Appraisal Mission                                                       September 1982  Loan
Negotiation                                                             February 1983
Board Approval                                                          March 29, 1983
Loan Signature                                                          April 15, 1983
Loan Effectiveness                                                      August 9, 1983
Loan Closing                                                            December 31, 1990
Loan Completion                                                         May 3, 1991



15
3.3   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement.
FY                1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Appraisal         27.0    85.0   100.8   100.8   100.8   100.8   100.8   100.8
Actual             0.8    18.4    35.7    58.3    63.6    81.6    85.7    96.8
Actual as Z
of estimate      3      22       35      58      63       80      85       96
Date of Final Disbursement                        May 3, 1991
3.4 Proiect Implementation
Component comiletion dates
Appraisal           Actual
Project Components                             estimate
South Wenliu Develoyment
3-D seismic survey, data processing
and interpretation                          September 1983    December 1985
Drilling study                                December 1984      December 1987
Oil and gas gathering and
separation facilities                       March 1985         December 1987
Water flooding                                March 1985         Continuing
Utilities and infrastructure                  December 1984      December 1987
Production operations                         January 1985       December 1987
Import of equipment                           June 1985          December 1990
East Wenliu Exxloration
Drilling                                      December 1985      December 1985
LPG Plant
Study for LPG Plant                           June 1985          September 1985
LPG Plant Installation                        September 1985    Docember 1989
Coamaissioning and training                   December 1985      October 1990
Laboratori
Building and support facilities               September 1984    October 1990
Import of equipment                           September 1984    August 1989
Installation and commissioning                April 1985         September 1988
Trainina Center
Building                                      September 1984    December 1989
Curricula formulation                         September 1984    August 1990
Import of equipment                           September 1984    July 1989
Staff Training                                September 1986    April 1991



16
Computer Center
Building and support facilities                September 1984    Continuing
Import of equipment                            October 1984       December 1987
Installation and commissioning                 March 1985         July 1987
Studio
Drilling practices                             September 1983    November 1987
Reservoir study                                December 1983      (November 1988)
Safety Practices                               November 1983      February 1986
Training Curricula                                                February 1986
Water Treatment                                                   December 1990
MIS                                            December 1983      Canceled



3.5 Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Prolect Costs
Appraisal est mte                                            Actual
Local     F.E.    Total    Local       F.E.    Total    Local       F.E.     Total   Local       F.1.    Total
----- (Y million) -----        -----    million) -----    ----- (Y million) ------   ----- ($ million) -----
Drilling--South Wenliu          361.00    83.79   444.79        190      44.1    234.1   441.42    63.12    504.54  180.93    23.72   204.65
Drilling--East Wenliu            38.19      5.32    43.51      20.1       2.8     22.9    26.33    12.41       38.74    8.87       4.18    13.05
Surface facilities               45.98         -    45.98      24.2         -     24.2   146.44          -    146.44   56.11          -    56.11
LPG Plant                        42.56    38.40    80.96        2.4      16.0     18.4    43.58   113.81    157.39   13.01        21.7    34.71
Other imported equipment         20.14   100.70   120.84       10.6      53.0     63.6         -    374.5      374.5        -   102.09   102.09
Buildings                         6.65         -     6.65       3.5         -      3.5    34.24          -     34.24    9.18          -     9.18
Studies L technical
assistance                      0.95    14.06    15.01        0.5       7.4      7.9         -    23.28      23.28        -      6.5       6.5
Subtotal                   515.47   242.27   757.74    251.3    123.3    374.6   692.01   587.12  1.279.13   268.1   158.19   426.29             _
Contingency                     134.90    63.46   198.36       71.0    33.45   104.45          -         -         -        -         -        -
Total proiect cost         658.37   297.73   956.10    342.3   156.75   499.05   692.01   557.15  1.249.16   268.1   158.19   426.29
Front-end fee                        -      1.35      1.35        -      0.75     0.75         -       2.1       2.1        -     0.75      0.75
Total                      650.37   299.08   949.45    342.3    157.5    499.8   692.01   559.25  1.251.26   268.1   158.94   427.04
B.  Prolect Costs and Financing
Planned                                                   Actual
Local     F.E.    Total    Local       F.E.    Total    Local       F.E.      Total   Local      F.R.    Total
----- (Y million) -----         -----    million) -----    ----- (Y million) ------     -----    million) -----
IBiD Loan                            -   191.44   191.44          -    100.8    100.8          -    358.4      358.4        -     96.8      96.8
Suppliers/GOC ZPEB                   -   107.64   107.64          -      56.7     56.7         -    200.8      200.8        -     62.2      62.2
GOC ZPEB                        650.37         -   650.37    342.3          -    342.3    692.0          -     692.0   268.1          -   .268.1
Total                      650.37   299.08   949.45    342.3    157.5    499.8    692.0    559.2   1,251.2   268.1    159.0    427.1
Note:  Figures may not add up due to rounding.



_ 18 _
3.6 Proiect Results
A. Economic ImDact
Economic Rate of Return:                      Appraisal                   Actual
(see Annex I for calculation)                  742                        491
B. Financial Impact
Financial Rate of Return:                     Appraisal                   Actual
(see Annex 2 for calculation)                  14Z                      0.5-9Z
C. Studies
Studies                      Status              Impact of Study
1. Drilling and           Completed      Improved the drilling performance
Completion Study                     in Zhongyuan
2.  Study for LPG         Completed      Provided advanced training and
Plant Design                         designed the LPG plant
3. Water Treatment         Completed     Reviewed the status of the water
Study                                utilization and designed new system
4. Training Center        Compl-ted      Developed training methods and
Study                                curricula for center
5.  Field Safety           Completed     Reviewed field safety management and
Study                                wrote new instructions and regulations
6.  Reservoir              Completed     Stopped due to bankruptcy of
Engineering Study                    consultant, study completed by
ZPEB staff (pars 1.23).
7. Management              Canceled
Information System



- 19-
3.7 Status of Covenants
Project
agreement                                                          Status of
section                  Covenant                                 compliance
2.01    ZPEB shall carry out Parts A through                   In full compliance
J of the Project, described in Schedule                with the exception
2 to the Loan Agreement.  With due                     of (iii) of Part J
diligence and efficiency and in conformity,            terminated.
with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and petroleum industry practices.
2.02    In order to assist ZPEB in carrying out Part                Complied
D of the Project and the studies referred to
in Sections 2.08 through 2.11 of this Agreement,
ZPEB shall employ, or cause to be employed,
consultants and experts whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank in accordance with the principles
and procedures described in the 'Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executive
Agency' published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.03    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,                   Complied
procurement of the goods required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
2.04    (a) ZPEB undertakes to insure, or make                     Complied
adequate provision for the insurance of,
the imported goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relevant to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by ZPEB to replace or repair
such goods.
2.05    (a) ZPEB shall furnish to the Bank,                        Complied
promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules
for Parts A through J of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.



- 20 _
Proj ect
agreement                                                        Status of
section                 Covenant                                 compliance
(b) ZPEB shall (i) maintain records and                   Complied
procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress for Parts A through J of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relevant to it by the Borrower, and
to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives'
to visit the facilities and construction site
included in Parts A through J of the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan relevant to it by the
Borrower and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Parts A through J
of the Project, the cost of, and where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from such Parts, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan relevent
to it by the Borrower and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods              Complied
and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party
to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project,             Complied
but in any event not later than six months after
the closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
(e) ZPEB shall enable the Bank's                          Complied
representatives upon reasonable request
to examine its plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment and any relevant records and
documents.



- 21 -
Proj ect
agreement                                                          Status of
section                  Covenant                                 compliance
2.06    ZPEB ahall duly perform *11 its                             Complied
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ZPEB shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or vaiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
2.07    (a) ZPEB shall, at the request of the Bank,                 Complied
exchange views with the Bank with regard to
the progress of Parts A through J of the
Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ZPEB shall promptly inform the Bank of any             Complied
condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of parts A through
J of the project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
ZPEB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
2.08    ZPEB shall carry out by December 31, 1983, or             Cancelled
such later date agreed by the Bank, a study
under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank of ZPEB's management information system
and shall review the findings of such study
with the Bank.
2.09    ZPEB shall carry out by December 1983, or such              Complied
later date agreed by the Bank, a study under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank of
ZPEB's drilling and completion practices, shall
review the results of such study with the Bank
and shall develop and implement an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank to apply improved
drilling and completion practices in its
operations.



2 22 -
Projact
agreement                                                         Status of
section                  Covenant                                 compliance
2.10    (a)  ZPEB shall carry out by December 31, 1983 or         Compliod
such later date agreed by the Bank, a study under         (delayed, see
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank of            para. 1.23)
reservoir engineering in the Wenliu oilfield,
shall review the results of such study vith the
Bank and develop and implemcnt an action plan
satisfactory to tho Bank to apply improved
recovery techniques in its operations.
(b) Until ZPKB shall have reviewed the results
of the study referred to in paragraph (a) above,
ZPEB shall not complete any wells drilled in 1983
or thereafter as injectors or producers.
2.11    ZPEB shall carry out by August 31, 1983, or                Complied
such later date agreed by the Bank, a study under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank of
operational safety, review the results of such
study with the Bank and develop and implement
in agreement with the Bank on action plan to
improve safety in its operations.
2.12    ZPEB shall establish the training center under             Complied
Part G of the Project by September 30, 1984,              (delayod)
and shall not later than such date develop a
training curricula in consultation with the Bank
for such canter.
2.13    ZPEB shall review with the Bank the results of             Complied
the 3-D seismic study under Part A of the Project
and agreed with the Bank on an action plan to
implemont such results prior to drilling any
exploration wells in the Bast Wenliu area beyond
three initial wells.
2.14    In order to assist in coordinating and monitoring          Complied
implementation of the Project, ZPEB shall establish
by September 30, 1983 and maintain, in consultation
with the Bank (a) a Project Unit within PCN1, and
(b) a Project Unit within GMC, in each case headed
by a Deputy Diroctor.



- 23 -
Project
agreement                                                          Status of
section                  Covenant                                 compliance
3.01    ZPEB shall carry on its operations and conduct its            Complied
affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and petroleum industry
practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
3.02    ZPEB shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,   Complied
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and petroleum industry practices.
3.03    ZPEB shall take out and maintain with responsible             Complied
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
4.01    ZPEB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in            Complied
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial
conditions.
4.02    ZPEB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial               Complied
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements), and the Project
records, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year (A) certified copies of such
financial statements and of financial summaries of
the Project records for such year as so audited, and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of ZPEB and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
4.03    ZPEB shall, by October 1 of each year, commencing             Complied
October 1, 1983, consult with the Bank on ZPEB's            (delayed)
current and future finances, including its trend
of production costs, budget variance analysis,
future investment program and related financing
arrangements.



- 2b -
3.8 Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of project                                                Actual staff-weeks
Through Appraisal                                                      116.5
Appraisal through Board approval/effectivness                           16.9
Supervision                                                            183.1
Total                                                            317.5
Average supervision/year - 23 SW
B. Missions
Stage of          Month/   No. of  SW in  Specialities  Performance  Problems
project cycle        Year   Persons  Field  Represented        Status
Through appraisal   9/81        5      20    PE PS FA G E
Identification
Appraisal            2/82       6      24    PE G FA E 2C
Appraisal through
Board Approval       5/82       3       9    E FA PE
Postappraisal        9/83       3       9    E FA PE
Supervision
Mission 1            9/83       2       5    FA PE                1            -
Mission 2            3/84       4      24    G GP FA PE           2            0
Mission 3            9/84       3       6    G FA PE              2            0
Mission 4            5/85       4       8    G FA PE PS           2            0
Mission 5           12/85       3       6    G FA PE              2            0
Mission 6            9/86       3      10    G GP PE              2            0
Mission 7            2/87       3       3    G PS PE              2            0
Mission 8           10/87       3       6    PS FA PE             2            0
Mission 9            3/89       3       3    PS PE G              2            0
Mission 10           5/91       4       3    PS PE FA C
Note:  In addition to the missions listed there were short field visits, dis-
cussions with consultants, etc., which are also included in the total
staff-weeks used on the project.
/a   Key to Specialities:  PE - Petroleum Engineer, G - Geologist, GP -
Geophysicist, C - Consultant, PS - Procurement Specialist, FA - Financial
Analyst, E - Economist.
Lb   Key to Prolect Status:  (1) No significant problems, (2) Moderate prob-
lems, (3) Major problems being addressed, (4) Major problems not ade-
quatetly addressed.
Ic   Key to Problem Types:  P - political, F - Financial, M - Managerial, T -
Technical, 0 - Other (usually procurement).






PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
CHINA
zHONGYUAN-WELIU PETOLElE PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CIA)
Economic Analysis
Oil Sales     Oil Vatue      Gas Sates          Gas Vatue          LPG Saies     LPG Vatue   Totat Benefits      Totat Costs/a      Net Benefits
App.   Act.   App.   Act.    App.      Act.      App.     Act.    App.   Act.   App.   Act.    App.       Act.     App.      Act.     App.     Act.
Year (in 000 tons)   (in S/ton)       (in 000 M3)      (in S/000 M3)   (in 000 tons)      (in S/ton)   (in 000 S)          (in 000 S)        (in 000 S)
1983           286  204.0    205               15220    145.4    140.7                                           60772   153300   166260  -153300  -105488
1984    651    556  208.0    201   120080    59220    149.8    138.0                                   153400   119926   181760    58810   -28360    61116
1985   1063    720  211.8    195   196060    86170    154.3    133.8                                   255380   151934    42390    36690   212990   115244
1986   1063    761  217.5      99   196060    84460    158.9      68.0  64.32          253.2           329120    81078    93650    45360   235470    35718
1987   1015    798  223.8    126   188610   131000    163.7       86.5  64.32          260.8           326810      250    96830    50330   229980   -50080
1988    900    770  230.1      99   181440   158210    168.6      68.0  64.32          268.7           308530    87181    99670    37600   208860    49581
1989    860    641  236.4    120   174930   131430    173.7       82.4  64.32          276.7           306670      350   102310    66360   204360   -66010
1990    815    580  243.3    169   166520   107580    178.9    116.0  64.32  10.44  285.0  185.6   303270   113277   105620    38000   197650    75277
1991    778    539  248.4    166   159350   100049    180.7    113.9  64.32  50.79  287.9  182.3   297940   114933   107530    42040   190410    72893
1992    737    502  253.4    123   151390    93046    182.5       84.4  64.32  62.07  290.8  135.1   291070    82786   109490    41450   181580    41336
1993    701    467  258.4    117   143970    86533    184.3       80.3  64.32  62.07  293.7  128.5   285150    74364   111490    40890   173660    33474
1994    663    434  263.5    121   136630    80475    186.1       83.1  64.32  62.07  296.6  132.9   278350    72246   113530    40370   164820    31876
1995    627    403  268.5    126   129260    74842    188.0       86.5  64.32  62.07  299.6  138.4   271670    70640   115640    39880   156030    30760
1996    596    375  273.9    133   123030    69603    189.9       91.3  64.32  68.97  302.6  146.1   266380    72313   117790    39420   148590    32893
1997    566    349  279.3    139   110710    64731    191.8       95.4  64.32  68.97  305.6  152.7   259910    71226   119990    39000   139920    32226
1998    537    325  284.9    146   103740    60200    193.7    100.2  64.32  68.97  308.7  160.3   254460    70552   122250    38620   132210    31932
1999    501    302  290.5    154    97000    55986    195.6    105.7            72.42          169.1   164540    70684    57030    38270   107510    32414
2000    468    281  296.3    161    90400    52067    197.6    110.5            72.42          176.8   156550    69810    58740    37960    97810    31850
2001    435    261  302.3    161    86150    48422    199.6    110.5            72.42          176.8   148680    66187    60500    37680    88180    28507
2002    415    243  308.3    161    81160    45033    201.6    110.5            72.42          176.8   144280    62915    62320    37440    81960    25475
2003    390    226  314.4    161    76910    41880    203.6    110.5            72.42          176.8   138260    59829    64190    37240    74070    22589
ERR (act.) =   48.57X                 MPV (act.) =         155690
ERR (app.) =   74.06X                 NPV (app.) =         942390
/a  Include actual and projected capital expenditures and O&M expenses.
I.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CHA)
Key FinanciaL Indicators
(in MiLlion Yuan)
83 app   83 act   84 app   84 act   85 app   85 act   86 app   86 act   87 act   88 act   89 act   90 act
Revenue                           349.6    392.0    585.4    501.8    692.0    709.4    820.4    845.9    e93.5   1337.5   1692.9   2030.5
Operating Income                   83.3      49.6    248.0       65.8    309.2       85.5    383.1       75.3     51.4    185.7    194.5    181.6
Net Income                         92.0       3.3    247.2       53.4    305.0       70.7    381.1       59.8     32.4    145.9    160.7    123.2
Price                                                                                                                                                             -o
Crude (Y/ton)                    130       130       175       130       175       130       175      130       130       177       220       286
Gas (Y/000 CuM)                   50        34       100        55       100        63       100       63        52        74        88       133
Total Assets                       1566      2929      1855      4182      2147      5623      2340      7064     9316    11715    14190    18358
Long-term Debt                      189       317       320       319       360       699       351      1280     2056      2825      3624      5042
Equity                             1272      2297      1415      3433      1642      4307      1856      4956     6099      7531      8965    11116
Debt Service                          2         2        15         2        21         6        22        21       104      318       444       422
Capital Expenditure                 485       834       489       868       493      1071       490      1167      1205     1812      1905      2010
Operating Ratio                    0.72      0.94      0.51      0.87      0.49      0.88      0.46      0.91     0.95      0.86      0.88      0.91
Debt Service Coverage
(times)                           45         1        18         9        15         7        18        7         3         6         6         4
Current Ratio (times)               2.6       1.4       2.4       1.3       2.2       1.3       2.4       1.0       1.1       1.2       1.1      1.1                        X
Unit Cost of Production                                                                                                                                                  O to
Crude (Y/ton)                     78        94        76       102        72        98        70      102       105       129       171       244
Gas (Y/000 Cu M)                                                                                                138       169       181       246



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CHA)
Financial Analysis
(in constant thousand Yuan)
Year         Oil Sales             Gas Sales          LPG Sales    Total SaLes   Total        0 & M         Total    Sales a         Net
000 tons    Price   OOOCuM    Price 000 tons    Price   Revenue   Cap. Exp.   Costs                Costs   Inc. Tax    Cash Flow
1983          286    134.0    15220       33.7                          38836.2 364089.3  13560.3    377649.6           4591.6   -343405.0
1984          556    134.1    59220       53.4                          77715.0 167021.3  28076.9    195098.2           6643.9   -124027.1
1985          720    126.7    86170       57.8                          96195.5  89706.5  29366.7    119073.1          12721.6    -35599.2
1986          761    118.0    84460       53.9                          94363.4  38031.4  32404.9        70436.3       14429.2       9498.0
1987          798    278.2   131000       67.3                         230830.7  52995.4  36861.9        89857.3       14349.6    126623.7
1988          770    252.4   158210       59.5                         203744.7  60724.4  46434.4    107158.7          14002.2      82583.7
1989          641    213.7   131430       52.8                         143893.2  35138.8  40348.7        75487.5       12035.4      56370.2
1990          580    211.4   107580        73.0    10.44    713.8    137908.7  38312.2  51569.4          89881.6       11129.1      36898.0
1991          539    211.4   100049    123.5    50.79    713.8    162545.9   7137.6  54029.1             61166.7       12279.3      89099.8
1992          502    211.4    93046    123.5    62.07    713.8    161910.8   7137.6  50308.8             57446.4       11433.8      93030.6
1993          467    211.4    86533    123.5    62.07    713.8    153707.9   7137.6  46799.9             53937.4       10636.6      89133.8
1994          434    211.4    80475    123.5    62.07    713.8    145983.9   7137.6  43502.3             50639.9        9887.2      85456.8
1995          403    211.4    78482    123.5    62.07    713.8    139184.9   7137.6  40399.1             47536.7        9181.6      82466.5
1996          375    211.4    69603    123.5    68.97    713.8    137094.2  24706.9  40277.2             64984.2       10252.3      61857.8
1997          349    211.4    64731    123.5    68.97    713.8    130996.4  24706.9  37478.2             62185.2        9539.6      59271.7
1998          325    211.4    60200    123.5    68.97    713.8    125363.5  24706.9  34896.1             59603.0        8882.4      56878.1
1999          302    211.4    55986    123.5    72.42    713.8    122443.7  24706.9  32432.0             57138.9        8255.4      57049.3
2000          281    211.4    52067    123.5    72.42    713.8    117520.5  24706.9  30176.5             54883.4        7681.1      54956.0                    CD
2001          261    211.4    48422    123.5    72.42    713.8    112842.6  24706.9  30176.5             54883.4        7681.1      50278.0                    X 
2002          243    211.4    45033    123.5    72.42    713.8    108619.1  24706.9  30176.5             54883.4        7681.1      46054.5
2003          226    211.4    41880    123.5    72.42    713.8    104636.1  24706.9  30176.5             54883.4        7681.1      42071.5                    o
FRR =         9.32%



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 2252-CIA)
Financial Analysis
(in constant thousand Yuan)
Year         Oil Sales             Gas Sates          LPG Sales    Total Sates   TotaL        0 & M         Total    Sales &         Net
000 tons    Price   000CuM    Price 000 tons    Price   Revenue   Cap. Exp.   Costs                Costs   Inc. Tax    Cash Flow
1983          286    129.0    15220        33.7                         37416.9 364089.3  13560.3    377649.6           4591.6   -344824.3
1984          556    126.3    59220        48.6                         73105.6 167021.3  28076.9    195098.2          6643.9   -128636.5
1985          720    119.3    86170        45.9                         89879.5  89706.5  29366.7    119073.1          12721.6    -41915.2
1986          761    111.2    84460        42.8                         88217.9  38031.4  32404.9        70436.3       14429.2       3352.4
1987          798    104.2   131000        41.7                         88634.6  52995.4  36861.9        89857.3       14349.6    -15572.3                           1
1988          770    125.5   158210        52.5                        104915.4  60724.4  46434.4    107158.7          14002.2    -16245.5                          co
1989          641    132.0   131430        52.8                         91574.5  35138.8  40348.7        75487.5       12035.4       4051.5                          1
1990          580    157.0   107580        73.0    10.44    713.8    106382.7  38312.2  51569.4          89881.6       11129.1       5371.9
1991          539    157.0   100049        73.0    50.79    713.8    128194.7   7137.6  54029.1          61166.7       12279.3      54748.7
1992          502    157.0    93046        73.0    62.07    713.8    129924.5   7137.6  50308.8          57446.4       11433.8      61044.3
1993          467    157.0    86533        73.0    62.07    713.8    123953.0   7137.6  46799.9          53937.4       10636.6      59378.9
1994          434    157.0    80475        73.0    62.07    713.8    118328.8   7137.6  43502.3          50639.9       9887.2       57801.7
1995          403    157.0    78482        73.0    62.07    713.8    113315.4   7137.6  40399.1          47536.7       9181.6       56597.1
1996          375    157.0    69603        73.0    68.97    713.8    113195.2  24706.9  40277.2          64984.2       10252.3      37958.7
1997          349    157.0    64731        73.0    68.97    713.8    108756.8  24706.9  37478.2          62185.2        9539.6      37032.0
1998          325    157.0    60200        73.0    68.97    713.8    104657.3  24706.9  34896.1          59603.0       8882.4       36171.8
1999          302    157.0    55986        73.0    72.42    713.8    103200.4  24706.9  32432.0          57138.9       8255.4       37806.1
2000          281    157.0    52067        73.0    72.42    713.8       99616.7  24706.9  30176.5         54883.4       7681.1      37052.1                   lb
OQ z
2001          261    157.0    48422        73.0    72.42    713.8       96210.0  24706.9  30176.5        54883.4        7681.1      33645.4                    m  X
2002          243    157.0    45033        73.0    72.42    713.8       93136.0  24706.9  30176.5        54883.4        7681.1      30571.5                      
2003          226    157.0    41880        73.0    72.42    713.8        90236.3  24706.9  30176.5       54883.4        7681.1      27671.8                   o
FRR =         0.48%



