Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3480-CRi
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $100.8 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
March 9, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 1982)
1 Yuan (Y)   =  $0.53
Y 1.9        =  $1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                         =  0.159 cubic meters (cu m)
1 British thermal unit (Btu)           =  0.252 kilocalories (kcal)
1 cubic foot (CF)                      =  0.0283 cubic meter (cu m)
1 kilogram of coal equivalent (kgce)  =  0.64 kilogram of oil equivalent
1 kilometer (km)                       =  0.621 miles (mi)
1 kilowatt (kw)                        =  1,000 watts (w)
1 megawatt (MW)                        =  1,000 kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNOOC  -  China National Offshore Oil Corporation
LPG    -  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
MOPI   -  Ministry of Petroleum Industry
PCN1   -  Production Company No. 1
PVT.   -  Pressure, Volume, Temperature
ZPEB   -  Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:       Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau (ZPEB)
Amount:            $100.8 million, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Relending          Same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.  ZPEB bears
Terms:           the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would assist the Government in
developing oil production in the southern part of the
Wenliu oilfield; exploring and evaluating the potential
of the eastern part of the oilfield; and recovering
liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) from associated gas. It would
include a 3-D seismic survey of the South Wenliu and part
of the East Wenliu structures, drilling of production,
injection, exploration and appraisal wells, and construction
of an LPG plant and ancillary facilities. A very important
objective of the project is to introduce modern technology
and methods to the petroleum industry in China - a process
initiated under the Bank's first petroleum project in
Daqing. The project would help optimize oil recovery and
production rates through appropriate secondary recovery
techniques and improved completion practices. It would also
provide modern oilfield equipment, computer and training
centers, laboratories and technical assistance (including
416 man-months of expatriate consultant services). The main
benefits from the project are production of crude oil, gas
and natural gas liquids, highly probable discovery of
additional reserves, and transfer of technology that would
improve operational practices.  The project involves
operational risks and safety hazards common in petroleum
exploration and development. To reduce these risks and
hazards, however, the project has been designed to improve
existing safety standards, upgrade workers skills and
provide modern equipment. Another risk is that geological
conditions may turn out less favorable than anticipated.
The 3-D seismic survey and technical assistance included in
the project should minimize this risk; moreover, even with
smaller recoverable reserves than estimated, the project
remains economically attractive.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                              Local      Foreign    Total
Costs:                                               ------- ($ million) ------
Drilling - South Wenliu             190.0       44.1     234.1
Drilling - East Wenliu               20.1        2.8      22.9
Surface facilities                   24.2       -         24.2
LPG plant                            22.4       16.0      38.4
Other imported equipment             10.6       53.0      63.6
Buildings                             3.5        -          3.5
Studies and technical
assistance                          0.5        7.4       7.9
Physical Contingencies               29.0       10.7      39.7
Price Contingencies                  42.0       22.75     64.75
Total Project Cost /1               342.3      156.75    499.05
Front-end Fee                          -         0.75      0.75
Total                               342.3     157.50    499.80
Financing                                              Local      Foreign    Total
Plan:                                                -------    million) 
Government/ZPEB                     342.3          -     342.3
Suppliers Credit or
Government/ZPEB                              56.7       56.7
IBRD                                  -       100.8      100.8
Total                            342.3      157.5      499.8
Estimated                                    IBRD FY   1984        1985       1986
Disbursements:                                        ------($ million) ------
Annual                               27.0       58.0      15.8
Cumulative                           27.0      85.0      100.8
Economic Rate
of Return:       74X
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 4183-CHA, dated March 9, 1983.
/1 Local costs include taxes and import duties (estimated at 15% of imported
goods) amounting to $23 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TIE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the People's Republic of China to help finance the Zhongyuan-Wenliu
Petroleum Project. The loan, for $100.8 million, would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable interest rate. A
portion of the loan ($96.8 million) would be onlent to the Zhongyuan Petroleum
Exploration Bureau (ZPEB) on the same terms and conditions. ZPEB will bear
the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981.' A country economic memorandum, which updates the
report, particularly on developments over the past two years, will be
distributed shortly. In the next President-s Report, the economy section
(Part I) and the country data in Annex I will be updated to reflect new
information on changes during 1982.
Development Objectives and Performance
3.        China's economic system combines an urban state economy modelled
after that of Eastern European countries, with a rural commune economy based
on the country's own traditions as well as its socialist ideology. The state
economy is characterized by public ownership, centralization of economic
decisions, strictly hierarchical control, and relatively little reliance on
markets or prices. In the commune economy, land and most capital are owned
collectively by production teams of 30-40 households, which generally corres-
pond to traditional villages (or neighborhoods of larger villages). Each
team is part of a brigade, each brigade part of a commune: these higher level
units organize land improvement projects, run industrial and other enter-
prises, and deliver education and health services.
4.        Development efforts over the past three decades have consistently
been directed toward two main objectives: first, industrialization, and in
particular development of a heavy industrial base; second, elimination of the
worst aspects of poverty. Chinese development strategy has also been shaped
by two major constraints: first, an extreme shortage of cultivable land
in relation to population; second, a high degree of international isolation.
5.'       These two constraints have sharpened the conflict between the
two objectives. The prospective returns to investment in agriculture (the



- 2-
principal source of income for the poor) have been limited by land scarcity
and by the fact that the easiest advances in intensive cultivation have
already been made. Similarly the inevitable competition for capital and
skilled manpower between industrialization and other means of poverty
reduction was for a long period aggravated by reliance entirely on domestic
resources and technology.
6.        The Chinese response to this dilemma has been to approach the two
objectives in two different ways. Following an initial phase of institutional
change and property redistribution, poverty reduction - mainly through rural
development and the provision of basic health and education services - has
been based largely on local resources and initiative. Industrialization,
by contrast, has been based mainly on a massive infusion of centrally
mobilized resources, with little concern for cost effectiveness, and using
largely Soviet technology of the 1950s.
7.        Tension between these two approaches has contributed to sharp policy
oscillations, as has a continuing debate on the role of political criteria in
economic decisions and on the most appropriate degree of centralization. The
country is only now recovering from the latest political upheavals - the
Cultural Revolution (1966-76) - during which extreme leftist views often
predominated, and egalitarianism and ideology were emphasized at the expense
of economic efficiency.
8.        Notwithstanding these policy swings, which have engendered some
dramatic economic fluctuations, there has been substantial progress toward
the two main objectives. Industrialization has been very rapid, largely as
the result of an unusually high rate of investment, virtually all of which
has been financed by domestic savings. The share of industry in GDP (around
44%) is currently similar to the average for middle-income developing
countries. However, agriculture still accounts for 35% of GDP and over 70%
of employment - similar to the average for low-income developing countries.
Around 85% of the population still lives in rural areas.
9.        Over the whole period 1949-81 the population expanded at a little
under 2% a year. Despite the tightly constrained agricultural sector, rapid
expansion of industrial output has caused national income per person to grow
fairly fast. With adjustments for international comparability, per capita GNP
appears to have grown at an annual rate of 2.0-2.5% in 1957-77 and (because of
a spurt in recent years) 2.5-3.0% in 1957-81. Even the former rate is signi-
ficantly above the average for other low-income developing countries (1.6% in
1960-78) - though the latter is still well below the average for middle-income
developing countries (3.7%) and has not been high enough to pull China out of
the low-income group.
Strengths and Weaknesses
10.       China has clearly displayed an outstanding capacity to mobilize
domestic resources - material, human and financial - in pursuit of compara-
tively well-defined national objectives. Given the shortage of land and



-3-
initially high yields, agricultural growth since 1949 has been quite impres-
sive. Yields of the major crops are now among the highest in the world though
labor productivity remains low. Agricultural growth, at about 3% a year, has,
however, been eclipsed by industrial growth at an average rate of more than
10% per year. Although a large minority of the population (around 200 million
people) remains very poor, low income groups in China have been made better
off in terms of employment, nutrition, health and basic education than their
counterparts in most other poor countries. Partly as a result, but also
through an intensive political campaign in the 1970s, the population growth
rate has been reduced in recent years to a remarkably low level (1.4% in
1981). Life expectancy - whose dependence on many other economic and social
variables makes it probably the best single indicator of human welfare in a
country - is (at 64 years) outstandingly high for a country at China's per
capita income level.
1l.       The outstanding weakness of China's economy is inefficiency - in
converting inputs into outputs, in matching supply with demand, and in invest-
ment decision making. This is partly the result of technological backward-
ness, caused by two decades of international isolation. But it also reflects
the virtual absence of medium-term planning from 1958 until recently, the lack
of economic criteria in investment analysis, and serious weaknesses in the
economic system - in particular, inadequate contact between producers and
users, insufficient use of markets and price incentives, inadequate linkage
between effort and rewards, and an overstaffed and cumbersome bureaucracy.
Recent Developments
12.       Since 1977 there has been intense discussion within China concern-
ing both the ends and the means of economic development. Though partly the
result of political change, the debate has been fuelled by some important
underlying economic considerations. Future growth will inevitably have to
depend mainly on improving the efficiency of resource use. The benefits of
technological isolation as a stimulus to improvisation have been overtaken
by its costs in terms of backwardness and bottlenecks. And the remarkable
progress made in industrialization and in meeting basic needs has not been
matched by - and has created a demand for - a commensurately rapid rise in
general living standards.
Reform and Adjustment
13.       In 1979, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-
ment.  Economic reform is aimed at improving the overall efficiency of the
economic system. It involves: restoring and improving the quality of central
planning and policy coordination; devolving more decision-making authority to
lower level units in the economic system; establishing more direct links
between incomes and performance of economic units and individuals; and placing
more reliance on market mechanisms and economic instruments, less on
administrative directives, to influence economic activity. Structural
adjustment is aimed at speeding improvements in living standards and involves



readjusting the relative shares of consumption and investment in national
income, some sectoral and subsectoral readjustments, and more emphasis on
foreign trade.
14.       Economic reforms have affected planning and management at both the
central and local government levels. A major reorganization of the central
government has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the total number of commissions, ministries and agencies under
the State Council from 98 to 52. Central-local government relations have
been affected by a decentralization of fiscal and foreign trade management,
and the legal rights and obligations of economic agents have been better
defined.
15.       Other reforms have affected the management and organization of the
state enterprise and collective sectors. Management of state enterprises
has been affected by changes and experiments aimed at improving incentives,
including the introduction of profit retention schemes and more flexible
payment and employment practices. There has also been experimentation with
different types of state enterprise organization, a greater variety of
marketing channels, some price flexibility, and greater autonomy for state
enterprises in production decisions. In rural areas, more responsibility
has been given to lower level collective units and to households, and
incomes have been more directly linked to the output of groups and house-
holds. There has been an increase in the number and types of rural markets
at which households can freely trade commodities. In urban areas the scope
for collective and individual economic activities has been expanded. Some
of these reforms - especially those in rural areas - have already improved
economic efficiency, while others will take longer to have an impact.
16.       Progress in structural adjustment has been impressive.  The share
of investment in net material product (NMP) has declined from 37% in 1978 to
30% in 1981, and the share of agriculture in NMP has increased from 36% in
1978 to 40% in 1981. Emphasis on light industry, which accounted for 43% of
industrial output value in 1978, was needed to provide more consumer goods
to match higher incomes. The shift in emphasis from heavy to light
industry, which began in 1979 and has become even more dramatic in the past
two years, has led to a sharp increase in this proportion - reaching over
51% in 1981. In fact, in 1981, heavy industry output actually fell by 4.7%
while light industry output grew by 14.1%.
Stabilization Program
17.       The implementation of adjustment and reform policies in recent
years was accompanied by some macroeconomic instability in 1979 and 1980:
there were large budget deficits, moderate inflation, rapid growth in the
money supply, and a widening of the current account deficit from $0.7 billion
in 1978 to $2.4 billion in 1980. Except for the budget deficit (5.1% of NMP
in 1979 and 3.5% in 1980), the symptoms of instability were quite mild by
international standards. They were, however, taken very seriously in a



- 5 -
country accustomed to insignificant inflation rates during the last two
decades. Accordingly, in 1981, the Government introduced a stabilization
program, which included a moderation of currency and credit expansion,
restoration of budgetary balance and sharp cuts in investment.
18,       Monetary and Fiscal Policy.  Restoration of price stability, the
Government's major concern, has been largely achieved: retail prices
increased by only 2.4% in 1981 compared with 6.0% in 1980. In rural areas
shortages of consumer goods and repressed inflation remain, but in urban
areas measures to restrict increases in nominal incomes in 1981 improved the
demand-supply situation. Meanwhile the major changes in relative prices
between urban and rural areas and within sectors continued through 1981.
Some price flexibility has also been introduced: above-plan output can be
sold at prices negotiated directly between buyers and sellers, and there is
considerable downward price flexibility for goods in excess supply.
19.       Strict price controls were one element of the stabilization pro-
gram but fiscal policy has also played an important role. The Government
reduced the budget deficit significantly in both 1980 and 1981, primarily
through major cuts in capital construction: after rising by over 50% in
1978 and nearly 14% in 1979, budget expenditures on capital construction
were reduced by 19% in 1980 and 22% in 1981. Moreover, the mode of deficit
financing in 1981 was less inflationary than in previous years. Because of
the Government's concern about open inflation, many of the increases in
agricultural procurement prices have not been passed on to urban consumers
but instead were financed by rapidly increasing subsidies (Y 8 billion in
1978 and Y 36 billion in 1981). Total domestic revenues have continued to
increase but not as rapidly as NMP, due in part to the introduction of
profit retention schemes and the shift in the composition of industrial
output from heavy to light industry. On the other hand, extrabudgetary
funds of enterprises and administrative organizations have grown rapidly and
were about half as large as budgetary revenues in 1981.
20.       Innovations like credit financing of investment and profit reten-
tion schemes mean that monetary policy potentially has a more important role
to play in China. After rapid increases in 1979 and 1980, the growth rate
of the money supply was reduced in 1981 as a result of strict control over
currency expansion. The velocity of circulation of money fell in 1979-81,
but this was to be expected during a time of major institutional and struc-
tural changes, including the increased monetization of rural economic acti-
vities and the proliferation of collective and individual commercial and
service undertakings. Bank branches have been given more autonomy to
mobilize and allocate resources, and efforts have been made to influence
economic decision making at the micro level by increasing and rationalizing
interest rates. The increase in interest rates is expected to attract
savings and induce enterprises to economize on fixed investment and working
capital. However, the allocation of investment resources in China continues
to be made primarily administratively, rather than by interest rates.



- 6 -
21.       Balance of Payments.  The Government's current policy includes
continued emphasis on foreign trade and on making more use of imported
technology.  The performance of merchandise exports has continued to be very
impressive, with the real growth rate averaging about 20% p.a. during 1978-81,
due mainly to rapid growth in manufactured exports. However, merchandise
imports, which also grew rapidly in 1979 and 1980, fell by 4.5% in value and
8.6% in volume in 1981 due to the stabilization program, especially the sharp
cutback in the investment program. As a result, the $2.4 billion deficit of
1980 was converted into a $2.0 billion current account surplus in 1981.
22.       The strong export performance is due in part to institutional
and policy changes.  In January 1981, an internal settlement rate of
Y 2.8 per US dollar (the official exchange rate was Y 1.6 per US dollar) was
introduced for all trade. The central government has actively encouraged
decentralization of foreign trade decision making and has introduced
material incentives, primarily in the form of foreign exchange retention
schemes. It appears, however, that some provinces and organizations may
have striven to increase exports even if this meant undercutting exports of
other provinces or units or exacerbating domestic supply shortages; greater
access to foreign exchange has also stimulated a faster growth of imports
than would have been permitted under a more centralized system. In the
absence of price and other reforms, the Government has felt obliged to deal
with these problems by introducing export quotas for 78 commodities, levying
export duties on other commodities, restricting some consumer goods imports,
and raising import tariffs on others.
23.       The Government's approach to foreign borrowing has remained very
calutious. In 1980 and 1981 it cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and
in 1981 took advantage of the unexpectedly strong current account position
to repay commercial bank and other loans. In 1981, China's debt service
ratio was 7.8%. Gross international reserves at the end of 1981 were
sufficient to cover about five months of 1981 imports of goods and services.
24.       Investment.  In 1978, China's rate of investment was much higher
than the average for other low-income or middle-income countries; moreover,
the overall efficiency of investment was low and getting worse due to
shortages of necessary materials and supplies, major transport constraints,
and inappropriate and inefficient procedures for selecting and implementing
investment projects. In these circumstances, the Government decided to cut
back on the investment rate while introducing measures to improve investment
efficiency and thereby protect future growth potential. The reduction in
the investment rate has been achieved in spite of difficulties in cutting
many investment components: the share of inventory accumulation in total
investment has remained high; investment financed from retained earnings or
local resources has grown sharply as a proportion of the total; and there
has been rapid growth of nonproductive, particularly housing, investment.
As a result, most of the cutbacks have had to be in large centrally financed
projects, which will probably have an adverse effect on future growth.



-7-
Growth and Income Developments
25.       The overall rate of economic growth in recent years has been
impressive, averaging 5.6% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 - a much higher rate
than in the first half of the 1970s. In 1981, however, the rate dropped to
3.0% as a result of the stabilization program.
26.       The combination of structural adjustment, economic growth and a low
population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1981) has led to rapid
increases in the general standard of living in recent years. In urban
areas, general wage increases and higher bonuses have more than offset the
increase in the cost of living index, and real per capita incomes increased
by 4.9% p.a. between 1978 and 1981. The number of urban unemployed has been
reduced dramatically and, with government encouragement, urban self-employment
has grown rapidly.
27.       Even more impressive, however, has been the increase in rural
incomes.  Information from several sources suggests that at current prices,
per capita rural incomes increased by 16-18% p.a. between 1978 and 1981; and
when account is taken of price changes, the increase in real per capita
incomes has been 10-12% p.a. About 60% of this dramatic increase is due to
increased rural production and the remainder to shifts in the terms of trade
in favor of rural producers. While areas and households that were already
relatively well off may have benefited the most, many poor areas and
households have also enjoyed substantial income improvements.
Sectoral Strategies
28.'      The rapid development of agriculture has been essential because
800 million people depend on agriculture for their livelihood; moreover,
rising incomes elsewhere in the economy and the requirements of light indus-
try have placed new demands on agriculture. Between 1978 and 1981, gross
agricultural output at constant prices increased by 5.7% p.a.; despite poor
weather in 1980 the growth rate was 2.7%, and in 1981 when China was again
affected by severe droughts and floods, the growth rate rose to 5.7%. There
has been a substantial diversification of the sector, with production of
cash crops expanding rapidly and large increases in livestock and sideline
production. Grain production has also increased since 1978 despite a
decline in the grain area, but domestic grain requirements have increased
more rapidly due to higher incomes and fast-growing requirements for live-
stock feed. As a result, foodgrain imports have been expanding steadily.
29.       The strong performance of agriculture in recent years is largely
due to the combination of improved terms of trade for agriculture and other
policy interventions and institutional changes that encourage local and
institutional specialization according to comparative advantage. Of parti-
cular importance have been the changes in the organization and management of
rural collectives (para. 15).



- 8 -
30.       Adjustment policy in industry has included increased emphasis on
light and consumer goods industry rather than heavy industry (para. 16);
stress on modernization of existing enterprises, particularly through
importation of new technology; and energy conservation.  Promotion of
manufactured exports has also been necessary to pay for imported technology.
These exports have been growing rapidly but still account for only 4% of
gross industrial output, and imported equipment as a share of capital
construction in industry has risen from 3% in 1978 to 26% in 1981.
31.       Reforms in industry have focussed the attention of organizations
and individuals on profits and efficiency (para. 15). Innovations have
included profit retention schemes, piece rate wages, and bonuses, which
for workers in state enterprises now average more than one month's pay. New
types of industrial organization include foreign partnerships, joint
ventures between urban state industrial enterprises and rural communes, and
industrial corporations with authority over a group of enterprises producing
similar output. Charges on the fixed assets and working capital of state
enterprises are intended to encourage them to use capital more productively.
However, these reform measures have not yet been backed by price reform and
enterprises still do not bear full responsibility for losses.
32.       Since 1979 when energy conservation became a major policy issue,
energy consumption has stagnated or fallen while NMP has grown by 10%. As a
result, China has remained a net exporter of energy despite declines in
energy production in 1980 and 1981. The fall in energy use per unit of
output has been due in part to the changing structure of industry: heavy
industry consumes about four times as much energy per unit of output as
light industry, and heavy industry output grew very slowly in 1980 and
declined in 1981. The Government has been stressing the importance of
improved efficiency and energy savings within sectors and has been pursuing
energy conservation through rationing and other administrative measures.
33.       Market-oriented reforms and greater regional specialization call
for expanded and more efficient domestic transportation and commercial
systems. In the commercial sector, the real value of sales has risen
rapidly and the role of markets in the allocation of resources has expanded.
Collective and individual commercial activities have proliferated, filling
gaps left by, and forcing improvements in, the state commercial system.
Growth in the volume of freight transport slowed greatly in 1980, and there
was virtual stagnation in 1981, indicating that bottlenecks in this sector
remain severe.
Development Issues and Prospects
34.       Although changes in the system of economic management as well as
in the structure of the economy will undoubtedly continue, a difficult
period of transition lies ahead. After spending three decades pursuing a
particular set of goals with particular instruments, the country will
inevitably find it hard to switch tc a path that is not only new for China,
but also one that has been successfully followed by few other countries.



- 9 -
Reform of the economic system will be especially difficult. The measures
described above, though diverse in form, have a unity of purpose, namely to
make the economy more efficient in the sense of both cutting costs and
matching supply more closely with demand. But the attempt to reform parts
of the economic system without a coherent overall program has also had some
adverse consequences. Bureaucratic reform is under way but will likely be a
lengthy and difficult process.
35.       Constraints.  China's efforts to improve its people's living
standards will, in the coming decade, be subject to a tight set of
interlocking constraints. Some of these are of long standing; they reflect
the country's fundamental resource constraints, especially the shortage of
agricultural land and the difficulty of increasing yields further. Others
are of more recent origin, however, and largely reflect the price that the
country must sti'll pay for more than a decade of waste and economic
mismanagement starting in the mid-1960s. They include shortages of trained
manpower, energy, and financial resources for new investment.
36.       The food problem facing China in the 1980s is likely to be similar
to that in the past, but it may be exacerbated by growing demand for feed-
grain to support increased meat production. Grain output will continue to
be constrained because of the extreme shortage of new cultivable land and
the limited opportunities that remain for increasing yields. Although sub-
stantial gains will probably be possible in the short and medium term
through improved policies and management, the foodgrain balance will remain
precarious and substantial food imports will have to be maintained. Main-
taining a low population growth rate is also crucial.
37.       In both rural and urban areas, the country's effort to modernize
the economy will be seriously constrained by the lack of trained manpower.
Despite considerable progress in basic education, technical and higher
education has been neglected and was severely disrupted during the Cultural
Revolution. Current enrollment in both universities and technical and voca-
tional schools is one quarter of the average for other developing countries.
Many teachers in advanced education are underqualified, curricula are
outdated, and scientific equipment is scarce.
38.       The outlook for energy production has recently deteriorated.  Oil
output peaked in 1979 at 106 million tons, dropped to 101 million tons in
1981 and is likely at best to remain at about 95-100 million tons a year
during the 1980s. Coal output (which contributes about 70% of total commer-
cial energy) declined to 620 million tons in 1980 and remained at the same
level in 1981. It is unlikely to exceed 700 million tons in 1985 and about
850 million tons in 1990, even if high priority is given to this subsector.
Growth of total primary energy production in the 1980s will thus not exceed
3% per year - less than one quarter of the 1952-80 growth rate.
39.       The prospects for economic growth in the 1980s will thus depend
critically on reducing energy use per unit of output. In particular, the



- 10 -
availability of oil for use as an industrial raw material will fundamentally
influence growth prospects. The potential for energy savings is very large,
as China is now among the world's most inefficient users of energy. In
addition to substantial new investment, however, conservation will require
fundamental reform of energy allocation procedures, incentives for reduced
consumption and changes in relative prices, and indeed, a total change of
thinking at the enterprise level on the way energy is used - all of which
will be difficult and slow to implement.
40.       The energy sector is already absorbing over 40% of industrial
investment and very large capital outlays would be required in the next
several years to accelerate the growth of energy output in the second half
of the 1980s. Competing claims for investments in other sectors are consid-
erable, especially those for badly needed urban housing and for relieving
transport bottlenecks. The attempt to modernize the huge industrial sector
built upon outdated technology will also require enormous investment out-
lays. Thus, notwithstanding the Government's effort to improve the alloca-
tion and use of its financial resources, a high level of investment will
need to be maintained in the 1980s to build a sound foundation for sustained
growth over the longer term. However, investments in key sectors like
energy and transport are presently caught between the Government's desire to
reduce the saving rate (in order to accelerate the growth of consumption)
and its loss of control over parts of the investment program as a result of
decentralization and reform.
41.       The Government's attempt to foster a much more open economy than
in the past may be impeded by a shortage of foreign exchange. Domestic
bottlenecks in the supply of certain agricultural and industrial materials,
together with the need to purchase foreign technology (in the form of
software as well as hardware), will make continued expansion of imports
essential for growth and modernization. The rate of growth of export
earnings depends critically on two uncertain parameters, namely the rate at
which nontraditional manufactured exports can be increased and the degree of
success in energy conservation. Even if energy conservation is fairly
successful (growth in energy use at, say, three fourths of the GDP growth
rate), oil exports will almost certainly disappear by the second half of the
1980s, and imports of energy may well be required, at least until new
domestic production capacity is established. If the external economic
environment improves, manufactured exports could grow, from a relatively
small base, by 9-10% a year in constant prices during the decade.
Nonetheless, declining energy exports will cause total foreign exchange
earnings to grow by no more than about 2% a year in the first half of the
1980s and 8% a year in the second half.  Thus the strong balance of payments
situation in 1981, brought about mainly by restrictive measures (cutbacks in
investment), masks serious medium-term constraints.
42.       China's access to concessionary capital is limited:  apart from
what it might obtain from the Bank Group, concessionary capital is only
likely to come from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and will likely



- 11 -
average only $500-600 million a year during the 1980s. Quantitative projec-
tions show that if China is to maintain reasonable growth and modernization
and keep its debt service payments at a manageable level, then it needs to
obtain the necessary foreign capital at an average interest rate substan-
tially below the market rate. China also has a strong claim to concession-
ary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries in the world.
43.T      For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will
be a difficult decade, and one whose problems will be compounded by errors
made in the 1960s and early 1970s. But looking further ahead, China's econ-
omic prospects appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants to the labor
force will have received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower
deficit will have been reduced. Further progress will have been made in
tapping China-s large energy potential, and in using it more efficiently.
Continuation of recent manufactured export trends should generate sufficient
foreign exchange for the Government to have more confidence in using foreign
capital and be less concerned about its terms. If the country's immense
wealth of human talent, effort and discipline can be combined with policies
that increase the efficiency of resource use, China will be able, within a
generation or so, to achieve a substantial increase in the living standards
of its people. Whether this potential can be realized, however, will depend
crucially on the success of the Government's program of reform and
adjustment in the 1980s.
PART 1I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CH-INA
44.'      In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now underway, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its consid-
erable development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover, working
with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its position in
the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the Bank should
assist China in removing the major constraints on development - the shortages
of energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern technology.
Even more important, the Bank should help the authorities to use these and
other inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment
control, as well as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the
Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's remaining
poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the basic
needs of most of its people, these efforts should concentrate on increasing
incomes in the poorest rural areas.
45.'      Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, six projects involving lending of about $690 million have been
approved. Two have been in education (University Development and
Agricultural Education and Research), one in agriculture (North China Plain
Agriculture), one in transport (Three Ports), one in industrial development
financing (Industrial Credit), and one in energy (Daqing Oilfield Gaotaizi



- 12 -
Reservoir Development). Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans
and credits, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of
September 30, 1982.
Economic and Sector Work
46.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to
provide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy.  This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum
analyzing developments over the past two years will be distributed to the
Executive Directors shortly. In addition, the Bank is undertaking studies in
several areas important for our understanding of the Chinese system,
including rural finance and urban planning and management in Shanghai.
47.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally
to introduce new methods of economic management and planning. As prepara-
tion for the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual has been
developed with Bank assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China
Investment Bank (CIB). The Bank is now helping to develop a similar manual
for the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC). A program of economic research
on China's development problems, aimed at the application of advanced
analytical techniques, has begun in collaboration with Chinese economic
research institutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysis of
structural change.
48.       Sector studies will help inter alia to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong province under the North China Plain
Agriculture Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and
agricultural manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and
Research Project. A health sector review is reporting on rural health care
delivery systems and health manpower development.
Near-Term Lending
49.       Work has begun on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on training. Several are in the key
sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the Bank's efforts will help
to increase the supply of fuel and power. Petroleum projects would be
onshore and emphasize training, field management and studies. The first
project at the country's largest and most productive oilfield, Daqing, will
help develop new reserves and introduce enhanced recovery techniques. The
proposed project, at the Zhongyuan oilfield, would include both development
and exploration. Other operations are proposed to support hydropower
generation in southwest China and the development and management of large
underground coal mines in Shanxi province and an open-pit mine in Nei Monggol.
Support of transportation began through the modernization of container and
coal handling facilities at China's three major ports. The Bank plans to



- 13 -
finance further projects in ports and railways where additional capacity is
needed to transport coal from mines in Shanxi to the east coast.
50.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education, notably the TV
university, a pilot program of basic colleges, another university development
project, and a second agricultural education project. Support of agriculture
will also continue through projects to develop presently uncultivated land
in Heilongjiang province for grain production, develop rubber cultivation in
Guangdong province, provide rural credit in two provinces with emphasis
on improved project appraisal and institution-building, provide further
assistance in agricultural research, and assist the government in a forestry
project. Besides the Industrial Credit Project, further loans would be made
to the China Investment Bank for modernization of light industries and
export projects. The Bank may also become involved in technical assistance
and investment in support of energy conservation in industry. In health, a
project would help improve rural health care services and medical education.
Bank assistance is also planned for a water supply project.
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SUBSECTOR
Introduction
51.'      China is the world's fourth largest producer of commercial energy,
and its achievements in developing energy resources over the last three
decades have been impressive. Production of coal has increased from some
60 million tons in 1952 to 620 million tons in 1981. During the same period,
power generating capacity increased from about 2,000 MW to 67,000 MW. In
1981, about 310 billion kWh of power was generated, of which about 80% was
thermal and 20% hydro. Oil production increased from about 0.1 million tons
in 1950 to 106 million tons in 1979; about 20% of oil output is currently
exported, generating roughly $4.75 billion, or about 27% of China's total
foreign exchange earnings. This rapid development has made China the
world's third largest consumer of commercial energy, behind the USA and the
Soviet Union, but ahead of Japan. However, consumption per capita is only
about 650 kg of coal equivalent (kgce) p.a., which is slightly above the
average for developing countries (620 kgce).
52.       These positive developments notwithstanding, the future prospects
remain uncertain. While China is likely to remain self-sufficient in energy
throughout the 1980s, it probably cannot sustain the growth rate achieved over
the last two decades. The major oilfields, which together account for about
90% of China's oil production, have peaked and entered a declining phase; no
new discoveries have been made of a magnitude to offset this decline. In
1981, oil production fell marginally to 101 million tons. Rapid expansion of
the coal industry faces intractable problems in terms of investment, location
and transportation. The remoteness of potentially major hydro sites from
centers of consumption and the long gestation period of hydro projects
preclude any sizable increase in hydropower's share of energy production in
the 1980s.



- 14 -
Resource Endowment
53.       China is well endowed with primary energy and has abundant resour-
ces in terms of coal, hydrocarbons, oil shale and hydropower potential.
Coal, China's traditional source of energy, meets some 70% of its demand for
commercial energy. Coal and lignite reserves are concentrated largely in
the north and northeast, which represent about 70% of the total recoverable
reserves in China (600 billion tons). While future plans call for increasing
coal production significantly by such measures as opening new mines and
increased mechanization, transport (essentially railroad capacity) appears to
be the single most important constraint to achieving this objective. Reserves
of oil shale in China are estimated unofficially at 400 billion tons. Current
production of shale oil from the Liaoning and Guangdong mines is about
300,000 tons. China's hydropower potential, among the largest in the world,
is estimated at 1,900 billion kWh per year (present hydrogeneration is about
60 billion kWh). While geothermal phenomena are abundant in the mountainous
southwestern part of the country, geothermal energy has not been developed to
a significant extent in China and its role is likely to remain limited. As in
other developing economies, non-commercial fuels such as crop residue and
animal waste are used extensively, especially in rural areas. China pioneered
and is now the leading producer of biogas.
54.       Oil and Gas.  Unofficial estimates of proven oil reserves range from
1.8 to 2.5 billion tons, while possible and probable reserves are currently
estimated at 5-10 billion tons onshore and 4-8 billion tons offshore.
Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas are currently estimated at 80 bil-
lion cu m, about 90% of which is located in Sichuan Province. In addition,
recoverable reserves of associated gas are estimated at about 50 billion cu m.
Total recoverable gas reserves (130 billion cu m) are equivalent to over
110 million tons of oil. However, gas reserves may not have been adequately
explored yet, and the ultimate recoverable reserves could be very much higher.
55.       Over the last two decades, China has made considerable progress in
exploiting these reserves. Although oil was discovered in China in 1897,
annual oil production before 1950 was no more than 120,000 tons, of which
about 50,000 tons was from oil shale. During the 1950s, exploration in
northwestern China resulted in some small discoveries. After 1957, explora-
tion began in northeastern and northern China and led to the discovery, in
1959, of China's largest oilfield in Daqing. This was followed by discoveries
in Shengli and Dagang in 1964. In 1965, petroleum production reached
11.3 million tons, making China self-sufficient in oil. During the 1960s, the
increase in oil production was relatively moderate; the major spurt came in
the 1970s, with production increasing from 30 million tons in 1970 to 106 mil-
lion tons in 1979. This increase came largely through development of the
Daqing oilfield and, to a lesser extent, of the Shengli and Renqiu oilfields.
The average annual investment in the oil and gas subsector over the last five
years has been about Y 2.8 billion (representing about 7% of China's total
annual capital construction investment).



- 15 -
ExplorationPoicy~
56.       Onshore Areas.  Until the late 1970s, China was remarkably
successful in implementing a policy of total self-reliance. However, the
rate of discovery has recently been declining and, faced with the prospect
of falling oil production, China has modified its exploration policy. It
now proposes to undertake detailed seismic surveys around existing oilfields
and to shift the focus of exploration from the north and northeast to the
northwest, where an estimated 50% of China's onshore recoverable reserves
are located. However, the basins in northwestern China are remote and have
extremely hostile weather and difficult drilling conditions; developing
this area would therefore require a quantum jump both in investment and
technology. China has secured limited assistance from foreign companies in
undertaking seismic surveys and exploratory drilling in particularly
difficult areas and is considering inviting foreign companies to participate
in exploration and production, especially in these difficult areas.
57.       Offshore Areas.  China's seismic work and development of offshore
structures in the Bohai area prior to 1979 made the limitations of its
offshore technology apparent. Thereafter, in a major policy departure,
China sought the active cooperation of foreign oil companies in these areas.
Forty-eight foreign oil companies, from 12 countries, were invited to
undertake geophysical and seismic work in over 420,000 sq km of China's
offshore sedimentary basins. On the basis of these surveys, six prospective
oil-bearing basins have been identified.
58.       In early 1982, the Government promulgated regulations that would
enable foreign oil companies to participate in exploring China's offshore
basins. Further, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) was
created to invite and evaluate bids and enter into offshore petroleum
agreements with foreign oil companies. The new regulations allow petroleum
contracts that make foreign oil companies bear the cost of all exploration
investment and the accompanying risks. Once a commercial oil and/or gas
field is discovered, both the foreign contractor and CNOOC will invest
jointly in its development. Initially the foreign contractor will be
responsible for developing and operating the field, but CNOOC may take over
as the field's operator whenever it deems fit. The rights of the foreign
contracting party to recover its investment and expenses and to receive
remuneration for the petroleum produced would be specified in the contract.
The first round of bidding, for an area of about 150,000 sq km, has already
taken place, and considerable interest was evinced by foreign oil companies.
Current and Anticipated Level of Oil Production
59.       Over the past year, oil output has fallen by about 3% and, more
important, production from the major oilfields has peaked. With no major
discovery to offset this fall, China will need to rely increasingly on infill
drilling, enhanced oil recovery methods, exploring and developing peripheral
reservoirs, and rapidly developing small discoveries. The Ministry of
Petroleum Industry (MOPI) has initiated such actions, and efforts are under



- 16 -
way to expand several oil fields. These actions may allow China to tempora-
rily stem the decline and maintain annual oil output in the 95-100 million ton
range up to 1985. However, beyond that, oil output from the major fields
would be declining rapidly. Furthermore, while prospects for offshore
discoveries are very good, oil from the offshore areas is unlikely to augment
China's oil production significantly before 1990.- Similarly, even if major
discoveries are made in the northwest, intractable logistics make field
development and oil transportation an extremely complex and time-consuming
proposition. Thus, between 1985 and 1990, oil production may fall to 90
million tons p.a. Prospects beyond 1990 depend on the success of current
initiatives in developing the northwestern region and offshore structures.
Consumption Pattern
60.'      Rising oil production has increased the role of hydrocarbons in the
Chinese economy (replacing coal, the traditional source of commercial energy),
with the relative share of oil and natural gas increasing from about 2% in
1965 to over 20% in 1981. The major consumers of oil are the industry and
commercial sectors (43%), followed by transport (25%) and power (20%). An
unusual and wasteful feature of the consumption pattern is the direct use of
8 million tons of crude as fuel oil. This is partly attributable to the
nonavailability of refining facilities close to the producing field,
transportation constraints and the poor quality of crude.
61.       Over the last 16 years, consumption of oil has been growing at an
annual rate of about 13%. However, faced with falling oil and gas production,
efforts are being made to decelerate this growth (consumption in 1981 was
reported to have been about 82 million tons against the peak of 90 million
tons in 1978). However, a further reduction of consumption may not be
possible without adversely affecting the country's rate of economic growth.
Substitution of coal for oil would require substantial investment in terms
of transportation and extensive retrofitting. Similarly, once a production
mode has been determined, the energy efficiency factor is locked in and
major improvement in energy use cannot be secured without discarding the
investment.
Prices
62.'      A comparison between petroleum product prices in China and
international prices (Annex IV) reveals that the average price of the
reconstituted barrel works out to be Y 55 ($29), which is in line with the
international price. The State Pricing Bureau is considering increasing the
price of crude oil sold to refineries from Y 100 (and in some cases Y 130)
per ton to Y 175 per ton, but this increase may not be reflected in end
prices. The refineries sell petroleum products to the Ministry of Commerce,
which is responsible for marketing the products. There is a price
differential at every point, with the oilfields, the refineries and the
Ministry of Commerce acting as profit centers for the State. In order to
encourage energy conservation and fuel substitution (oil to coal), the
Government began in September 1982 to charge an excise tax of Y 70 per ton



- 17 -
of crude and heavy oil burned. In effect, the retail prices of petroleum
fuel to end consumers would amount to Y 170 and Y 155 per ton of crude and
fuel oil respectively. The Government has also had some success in reducing
energy consumption and encouraging substitution of fuels through energy
targets for individual enterprises and other administrative means. In the
present Chinese system, administrative measures would still have more
influence than prices on energy use and production, but as decision making is
decentralized, it will become increasingly important to ensure that price
incentives reinforce rather than contradict administrative regulations.
However, the Government believes that a solution to the underpricing of some
important energy products can only be achieved over an extended period.
Demand and Supply of Natural Gas
63.       Gas production declined by about 13% between 1980 and 1981, when it
amounted to 12.5 billion cu m, composed of about equal amounts of associated
and non-associated gas. Non-associated gas fields in Sichuan Province, which
is the major producing area and has been active for over 100 years, have now
entered a declining phase. Similarly, with the decline of oil production in
the major oilfields, production of associated gas would also decline. A fall
in gas production would inevitably stimulate demand for liquid hydrocarbons,
which makes it necessary to explore and develop non-associated gas prospects.
About 30% of natural gas is used for fertilizers, about 10% for petrochemicals
and synthetic fibers, and 60% as fuel, of which about 12% is used for thermal
power plants.
Institutions
64.'      The Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI) generally oversees all
activities in the oil and natural gas subsector, including policy making
and overall planning, exploration, production, distribution, transportation,
research/design and training. Created as a bureau in the Ministry of Fuel
Industry in 1949, it became a full ministry in 1955 and oversaw the opening
of the Daqing oilfield in 1959 as well as subsequent discoveries. The
petroleum industry has been in a state of continuous change since the 1970s;
this has blurred the lines of responsibility and created considerable
overlap of function in exploration and refining between MOPI, the Ministry
of Geology and the Ministry of Chemical Industry. Some of these problems
may be resolved as the Government s program for reorganization is implemented.
65.       The Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau (ZPEB) is responsible
for the development of the Zhongyuan oilfield.  Zhongyuan oilfield operations
came under the Shengli oilfield management until September 1981, when a
separate oilfield administration for the basin was established, reporting
directly to MOPI in Beijing. In April 1982, the area of operation for this
entity was increased from 5,300 sq km to 20,000 sq km and its name was
changed from Dongpu Oilfield Administration to Zhongyuan Petroleum Explora-
tion Bureau. ZPEB's president is assisted by eight vice-presidents in
charge of production, drilling, capital construction, administration, geology,
research and design, personnel and logistics.



- 18 -
66.-      ZPEB's functions are largely managerial.  All tasks relating to
exploration are currently undertaken directly by ZPEB.' Specialized companies,
are responsible for various oilfield activities such as drilling, surface
construction, production, maintenance, design and research. These companies,
which are sub-units of ZPEB rather than separate legal entities, are divided
into brigades and teams according to the standard Chinese organizational
pattern. The brigade leader and his staff (usually 10-15 specialists) are
professionals with managerial responsibilities. A team typically consists
of 50-100 skilled workers, one of whom is designated the team leader.
67.'      Production and net income targets are set annually by MOPI.  These
targets in turn form the basis for ZPEB's budget for operation, working
capital and investment on a one-year basis. ZPEB enjoys considerable opera-
tional autonomy, but less financial autonomy.
68.       ZPEB's personnel are hardworking, disciplined and competent.  Its
managers are aware of existing technical and organizational problems, both
in research and production. Technical deficiencies arise from outdated
equipment, obsolescent technology and a general lack of familiarity with
deep drilling and concomitant problems. The main organizational problem is
that, under the present system, a discernable premium is placed on the
achievement of physical targets but not on quality control. Taking these
limitations into account, the project emphasizes technology transfer and
institution building. Overall, there is little doubt that ZPEB will be able
to carry out this project with competence and speed.
Sector Issues and the Role of the Bank
69.'      From available evidence it is clear that China at least in the
mediumrterm faces the prospect of declining oil production. Sector strategy
over the longer-term would require China taking steps to increase its
exploratory efforts, especially in the offshore and the northwest onshore
areas, undertaking fuller development of coal and hydro potential and making
structural adjustment in industry to improve the efficiency of energy use and
permit the replacement of oil by coal. Critical as these measures are, they
do not represent a medium-term option. Coal mines would have to be modernized
and the transportation constraint resolved; while prospects of offshore oil
discoveries are rated as high, oil in significant amounts would be secured
only after an extensive period of exploration and development; similarly
projects for developing hydro potential have a long lead time. In fact
investment in these areas is unlikely to yield significant results during the
1980s.
70.'      China is now facing problems typical to all oil producers, that is,
being required to undertake exploration and production under increasingly
difficult and complex conditions. Its capabilities in this regard are
limited. Because of an extended period of technological isolation during the
development of its oil industry, China has not been successful in discovering



- 19 -
petroleum in complex geological environments nor has it developed the techno-
logical capability to increase the recovery of oil from existing fields. Much
of the equipment used in the fields such as Daqing is already obsolescent;
field practices such as drilling, cementing, casing and formation logging are
outdated and require an in-depth evaluation. China needs to upgrade the
quality of its seismic work, data processing, reservoir engineering, and
techniques relating to enhanced oil recovery. In addition it needs to import
modern oilfield equipment and technology related thereto and train oilfield
staff in these new methods. The Government is seeking the assistance of
foreign oil companies in exploring and developing its offshore areas. This,
in addition to developing its offshore structures, would, over a period of
time, result in the transfer of offshore technology relating to seismic work,
exploration, field development, etc. In the onshore area, especially in
regard to the discovered and developed oilfieds, the Government expects the
Bank to act as a conduit for similar transfer of technology.
71.       Bank assistance would supplement these efforts to consolidate
China's oil production capabilities and help stem the anticipated decline in
oil production. Initially Bank lending in the petroleum sector will have
three basic objectives: first, to develop known hydrocarbon bearing
structures in order to partially offset the anticipated decline, second, to
provide a vehicle for introducing modern technology to the Chinese oil
industry, and third, to train and upgrade the skills of its personnel in
current oilfield practices. In the medium term the Bank's involvement in
the sector would be aimed at developing rapidly the small oilfields which
have already been discovered, undertaking seismic surveys in the vicinity of
existing producing fields, and identifying and initiating enhanced oil
recovery programs. The Bank's role in the longer term would be determined
taking account of the role of other sources of finance and expertise in
Chinese conditions.
72.       The proposed project would address itself directly to these issues
by helping to finance the import of modern equipment and technology. During
project preparation, substantial staff input was required to identify areas
where technology should be upgraded. Further work will be needed in preparing
terms of reference for technical studies, selection of consultants, supervi-
sion of studies, evaluation of findings, and finalizing and implementing a
plan of action based on these results. Another important objective under the
proposed project is the training of Chinese technical staff and strengthening
of their capabilities. Engineers and technicians would be trained in the use
of new equipment and in modern petroleum engineering practices; a training
center would be established and operational laboratories appropriately
equipped to supplement the operational work in the field. The project would
also assist in shaping the future investment program by helping finance
important pre-investment studies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
73.       The project was identified in Sepember 1981 and appraised in
September 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 28 to
March 4, 1983. The Government of China was represented by Mr. Ge Fucun,



- 20 -
Director, External Finance Department of the Ministry of Finance, and ZPEB by
its President, Mr. Hu Xiaoyun. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4183-CHA, dated
March 9, 1983) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary data are provided in Annex III.
Project Area
74.       The Zhongyuan basin lies about 500 km south of Beijing in a densely
populated agricultural area. It covers an area of 5,300 sq km, most of which
lies in Henan Province and a small part in Shandong Province. Seismic surveys
of the basin started in 1974, and in 1977 the first commercial oil discovery
was made. Since then 17 structures have been shown to be hydrocarbon-bearing.
Four of these, Wenmingzhai, Weicheng, Pucheng and Central Wenliu, have been
brought into production with a current annual yield of 2.10 million tons of
oil and 291 million cu m of associated gas. In addition, four other fields,
including South and East Wenliu, have been determined to contain sufficient
quantities of hydrocarbons to be of commercial value. Estimates of the reser-
ves in these fields are 200 million tons of oil-in-place, 19.7 billion cu m of
associated gas and 15.6 billion cu m of free gas.
Project Objectives
75.       The immediate objectives of the proposed project are to: develop
the oil production potential of the South Wenliu field; explore and evaluate
the oil production potential of the East Wenliu discovery, which is
estimated to have about 80-100 million tons of oil-in-place; and recover LPG
from associated gas, which in 1982 was flared at the rate of 0.45 million cu
m per day. Important elements in developing the South Wenliu field will be
the optimization of oil recovery and production rates through appropriate
secondary recovery techniques and improved completion practices. For the
longer-term, a more important objective is to continue the process of
introducing modern technology and methods into the Chinese petroleum
industry a process initiated under the Bank's first petroleum project in
China. To this end, the proposed project provides through Bank financing
imported modern oilfield equipment, computer and training centers,
laboratories and technical assistance.
Project Description
76.       The proposed project would comprise the following components:
(1) 3-D Seismic Survey - acquisition, processing and interpretation of
a three-dimensional seismic survey over an area of 100 sq km
covering the South Wenliu and part of the East Wenliu structures.
(2) Development of South Wenliu Oilfield - drilling of 204
production/injection wells and the construction of: (i) surface
oil producing facilities; (ii) water/gas injection facilities;
(iii) associated gas treating and compression facilities; and
(iv) other utilities and infrastructure.



- 21 -
(3) Exploration Drilling in East Wenliu - drilling of 13 wells, of
which 6 are planned to be exploration and the balance appraisal
wells.
(4) Natural Gas Liquids Recovery - construction of an LPG plant and
ancillary facilities to process 1.D million cu m per day of
associated gas.
(5) Laboratories - equipping of laboratories for special core analyses,
PVT, oil, water and gas analyses, water flooding and cement and
mud testing.
(6) Computer Center - establishment of a computer center for storing
and processing technical, administrative and financial data on the
oilfield.
(7) Training Center - establishment of a training center for skilled
workers, to be equipped with a drilling rig, surface production
facilities, simulators, visual and other teaching aids.
(8) Imported Oilfield Equipment - import of drilling, logging and
production equipment including blow-out preventers, downhole
tools, cementing trucks, oilfield trucks, cranes, mobile work-
over rigs, fracturing and blending trucks, well logging and
production logging units.
(9) Technical Assistance - carrying out studies and technical
assistance in connection with: (i) design, erection and
commissioning of an LPG plant; (ii) drilling and completion
practices; (iii) reservoir engineering with special focus on
secondary recovery techniques; (iv) design of curricula for
training and teaching methods; (v) management information system;
and (vi) oilfield safety practices.
(10) Pre-investment Studies - undertaking conceptual and feasibility
studies in connection with other projects identified in the
petroleum sector for possible Bank financing.
Project Implementation
77.       All project components are scheduled to be completed by end-1985.
South Wenliu development drilling and the installation of surface production
and operating facilities should be completed by end-1984 and exploration
drilling in East Wenliu by end-1985.- The LPG plant should be completed by
mid-1985 and be commissioned and fully operational by the beginning of 1986.
ZPEB will have the overall responsibility for implementing the project.
Under its supervision, Production Company No. 1 (PCNI), one of ZPEB's three
production companies, will implement, and subsequently operate, the South
Wenliu oil development component of the project. A Gas Management Company
(GMC), which was established at the end of 1982, will have similar
implementation and operating responsibilities for the LPG plant. ZPEB will



- 22 -
supervise the East Wenliu exploration drilling to be carried out by the
Drilling Company No. 2, which was established at the end of 1982. In
developing production in South Wenliu, PCN1 will essentially act as the
concessionnaire of the area. It will subcontract the various implementation
tasks to other ZPEB subunit companies. The three subunits playing major
subcontracting roles will be: (a) the Drilling Company No. 1 (which in turn
will subcontract such services as well logging, testing and completion to
specialized well service companies of ZPEB) for the production and injection
wells; (b) the Research and Design Institute for design and engineering of
all surface installations and facilities; and (c) the Surface Construction
Company for the construction of these surface installations and facilities.
The LPG plant will be procured from a foreign supplier on a turnkey basis.
Expatriate consultants financed by the Bank would assist in the various
implementation activities, including construction supervision, commissioning
and initial operation of the LPG plant. The Geophysical Services Inc. (GSI)
of the United States has been contracted to carry out the 3-D seismic survey
described in para. 76. Assurances have been obtained that ZPEB would
establish by September 30, 1983: (a) a special Project Unit in PCN1, headed
by a Deputy Director, to supervise and coordinate the development and
exploration activities in South and East Wenliu; and (b) a similar Project
Unit in GMC to be responsible for the LPG plant project component (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.14).
78.       ZPEB is encountering considerable difficulties on account of hostile
drilling conditions and inadequate equipment and technique. Pay zones are
deep (3,500 to 4,000 m), and deeper wells are being planned to explore
horizons up to 6,500 meters; high pressure and temperature are continuously
encountered. These and other factors have resulted in problems such as
sluggish drilling, corrosion, collapsed casing, hole enlargement and
difficulties with cement bond. ZPEB would need to import not only equipment
capable of drilling to these depths, but also techniques suited for the
specific drilling conditions in Zhongyuan. This issue was reviewed with ZPEB
and MOPI. ZPEB has agreed to appoint qualified consultants to study the
various drilling, mud and completion problems, with a view to evolving a
package of field practices which would be consistent with the needs of the
Zhongyuan basin and which would help to reduce costs through savings in
material and reduction of drilling time (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.09). Notwithstanding the drilling difficulties noted above, ZPEB's
drilling record is impressive and about 180 deep wells have been drilled and
completed every year.
79.,      ZPEB and its subunit companies are staffed by dedicated and
competent personnel who have the requisite experience and capabilities to
carry out effectively the respective project tasks. However, because of
ZPEB's short history as an independent entity and its transition from being
predominantly an exploration organization to a major petroleum production
organization, management capabilities, especially in the subunit companies,
need to be augmented and redirected. To develop them into a smooth
functioning group, attention must be given to lines of responsibilities and
coordination among the various organization units. The existing structure is



- 23 -
inadequate for providing pertinent technical information on a timely basis,
and management is not organized to ingest and respond adequately to such
information. The computer facilities proposed for the project would make it
possible to design and implement a management information system that would
enable ZPEB to effectively manage and monitor the oilfield activities. In
this context, the costing techniques of ZPEB would need to be evaluated in
order to provide its management with appropriate operational information (both
technical and financial) for monitoring and control purposes. ZPEB has
agreed to appoint consultants, to be financed under the proposed loan, to
devise a management information system, and to review, by December 31, 1983,
the consultants recommendations with the Bank for purposes of formulating a
future course of action (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
80.       The major thrust of the project is to introduce new technology,
refurbish research facilities, evaluate and improve field practices, and
upgrade the level of training. Assurances have been obtained that ZPEB
would pursue these aims by undertaking the following studies and actions (in
addition to the studies already mentioned above), using qualified
consultants and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank:
(1) after completion of the 3-D seismic survey undertaken by
consultants and drilling of the first three exploration wells,
consult with the Bank and agree on objectives and
location of further drilling in East Wenliu (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.13);
(2) appoint qualified consultants by June 30, 1983 to assist in the
development of the LPG plant (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.02);
(3) undertake a study on reservoir engineering by December 31, 1983,
review its findings with the Bank and agree on a plan of action
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.10); and
(4) establish a training center for skilled workers and develop for
the center a training curricula in consultation with the Bank by
September 30, 1984 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.12).
Ecology and Safety
81.'      The ZPEB drilling and production operations pose a minimal threat
to the ecology. Oil and liquid wastes, which would be the major concern, are
kept in closed systems and treated before disposal. Although crews are well
trained, there is concern over safety measures and practices in ZPEB's well
drilling operations because of the outmoded equipment and technology,
especially with regard to blow-out prevention. There is also evidence that
safety precautions are not enforced as strictly as they should be. This issue
was discussed with ZPEB, and it was agreed that a safety expert, well versed
in the safety aspects of the petroleum industry, should visit ZPEB's



- 24 -
operations with a view to developing adequate safety standards and practices.
Assurances have been obtained that ZPEB will appoint a consultant to carry
out such a study by August 31, 1983, review with the Bank the consultant's
findings and recommendations and develop and implement, in agreement with the
Bank, an action plan to improve safety in its operations (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.11).
Project Costs and Financing
82.       Total project cost, including import duties,/l is estimated at
$499.8 million equivalent, of which $157.5 million or 32% represents the
foreign exchange component. A cost breakdown is given in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report. The local costs for drilling and
construction are estimated on the basis of ZPEB's past experience. They are
subject to tight control through budget allocations. In estimating the cost
of expatriate consultant services (416 man-months), a man-month rate of
$17,000 has been assumed for personnel at the home office and $20,000 (inclu-
sive of travel and subsistence) for staff assigned to China. These rates are
deemed to be both reasonable and in line with current charges prevailing in
the petroleum industry. The cost of service contracts for highly specialized
equipment is included in equipment costs. A physical contingency of 7% was
applied to the cost of all imported equipment and materials and of 10% to
local costs, except for the LPG plant which carries a contingency of 20%. A
relatively low physical contingency rate was applied to foreign costs in view
of the fact that most of the imported equipment provided under the project has
already been identified.  The cost estimate is based on end-1982 prices; price
escalation for both local and foreign costs has been assumed at 8% for FY83,
7.5% for FY84, 7% for FY85 and 6% for FY86. No contingencies were added to
the 3-D seismic survey costs since a fixed price contract for this work is
already in effect.
83.       The Bank loan of $100.8 million, including a front-end fee of
$0.75 million, represents 64% of the foreign exchange component and 20% of the
total project cost. The remainder of the foreign exchange component ($56.7
million) represents the cost of tubular goods, which would be financed by
available supplier-s credits or by the Government/ZPEB. The Government/ZPEB
would meet all local costs, equivalent to $342.3 million. The Government
would onlend $96.8 million to ZPEB on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan. ZPEB will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Procurement and Disbursement
84.'      Drilling and construction work would be carried out by force account
(ZPEB's own forces); this practice has been shown to be cost effective because
/1 Import duties at 15% of the cost of foreign goods, amounting to an
estimated $23 million.



- 25 -
ZPEB's personnel are experienced and competent to carry out the work and
because salaries in China are extremely low compared with international
levels. Goods and services to be financed under the proposed Bank loan and
the LPG plant (which is expected to be procured on a turnkey basis and
financed by the Bank loan) would be procured by international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank-s guidelines, except in cases where
limited international tendering (LIT) and direct purchase are more
appropriate. LIT would be used in procuring highly specialized goods or
services available only from a limited number of suppliers, in which case bids
would be requested from those qualified international suppliers known to be
capable of supplying such goods and services. In view of the high proportion
of proprietary and specialized equipment provided under the project, it is
anticipated that disbursement under ICB and LIT would represent about 40% and
57%, respectively, of the total loan. Spares and goods or services costing
less than $150,000 equivalent and not likely to attract international bidding
may be procured through direct purchase up to an aggregate of $3.0 million (3%
of the Bank loan). All bid packages having an estimated value of $500,000 or
more would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
85.       Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of consultants' services and training programs; 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of the LPG plant and imported equipment and
materials; and 100% of the ex-factory cost of the LPG plant, equipment and
materials supplied from local sources under ICB. For the LPG plant,
disbursement would be made against the design, supply and commissioning, but
excluding civil works and installation. The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by June 30, 1986 and the closing date would be December 31, 1986.
In the absence of a standard disbursement profile applicable to this type of
project, the disbursement schedule is based on a three-month time lag between
the time the expenditure is expected to be incurred and the time the
equivalent funds are disbursed from the loan.
Financial Aspects, Accounts and Audit
86.       ZPEB is operating in a centrally planned economy in which all the
factors of production are tightly controlled. Fundamental differences exist
between some of ZPEB's practices and those of commercially oriented petroleum
enterprises. ZPEB's production is marketed as directed, and at prices fixed
by the Government. ZPEB's performance is measured on the basis of product
output under given budget parameters rather than profitability. It is
required to transfer all net income and 50% of its annual depreciation to the
Government.  Its internally retained funds are derived from three sources:
(a) 50% of annual depreciation; (b) provisions for overhaul; and (c) oilfield
upholding provisions for field investment and maintenance. These provisions
are classified as "expenses" for purposes of calculation of net income to be
remitted to the Government. The Government covers the approved cost of
exploration and also makes specific contributions to development. Under
procedures initiated in mid-1982, ZPEB is required to borrow from the People's
Construction Bank of China for a portion (about 20% over the next five years)
of the government funds for development.



- 26 -
87.       ZPEB-s finances were consolidated with Shengli Oilfield Adminis-
tration (SOA) until the end of 1981. Since January 1, 1982, ZBEB's financial
operations have been separated from SOA. Within the context of the financial
arrangements in China, ZPEB-s present financial position is satisfactory and
is expected to remain so in the future. Over the next five years, production
growth is expected to outpace cost increase. Based on the current crude oil
price of Y 130/ton, ZPEB-s operating ratio is estimated to decrease from 0.77
in 1982 to 0.61 in 1986. Taking account of the rising costs of oil extraction
in the country, MOPI has recently proposed an increase in the price of crude
to Y 175/ton throughout China.  The major impact of the price increase on ZPEB
would be to increase significantly its contributions to the Government, which
by 1986 would amount to Y 422 million as compared with Y 266 million based on
the existing price. ZPEB-s self-financing ratio for field investment and
maintenance is projected to average 32% over the next five years. Its debt
position is projected to remain low, and notwithstanding the recently
instituted system of debt financing for development, its debt/equity ratio is
estimated at 1/99 in 1982 and 16/84 in 1986. The results of sensitivity
analysis indicate that even under less favorable conditions than those assumed
in the base case, ZPEB's finances will remain satisfactory.
88.'      The proposed project (estimated to cost about $500 million)
represents about 40% of ZPEB's planned investment and field maintenance
program over the next five years. The DCF financial rate of return of the
project is estimated at 14% (in real terms) over the life of the project.
89.'      Management control at ZPEB relies heavily on the budget and
budgeted cost is a major yardstick against which performance is being
measured. However, it appears doubtful whether the budget basis -
especially in regard to quantity inputs - provides for adequate monitoring
of the efficiency of operations. It is recommended that an evaluation of
ZPEB-s costing techniques be undertaken by consultants as part of the study
for devising a management information system (para. 79). In addition,
assurances have been obtained that ZPEB will review annually with the Bank its
current and projected finances, focusing in particular on the trend of
production costs, budget variance analysis, and its investment and related
financing arrangements (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03).
90.'      Present accounting practices in China do not provide for an
external audit of such scope and depth as to meet internationally accepted
standards. The Ministry of Finance is currently setting up an independent
audit group within the Ministry to review and certify the statements of all
state-owned enterprises. Regulations on auditing will be formulated, and
the independent audit groups could in the near future be transferred to the
jurisdiction of the State Council. Technical assistance is being provided
for the group by several organizations, including the UN, and through
bilateral aid. Assurances have been obtained that ZPEB will maintain separate
project accounts (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.05) and that audited
accounts of ZPEB and of the project would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02).



- 27 -
Benefits and Risks
91.       The major quantifiable benefits from the project are production of
crude oil, gas and natural gas liquids. Production from the South Wenliu
oilfield is expected to reach by 1985 a peak of 11 million tons of crude and
196 million cu m of gas p.a. Annual production from the LPG plant has
been estimated at 64,000-tons of LPG and 14,000 tons of condensate. For the
purpose of economic return calculation, project costs include the capital
expenditures (75% of total project cost) and operating expenses directly
related to the development of South Wenliu and the LPG plant. The economic
rate of return for the project is estimated at 74%, and the net present value
(at a 12% discount rate) amounts to $942 million over the life of the project.
A sensitivity analysis indicates that in the worst-case scenario, where the
value of crude oil remains at the 1984 price level throughout the life of the
project, 20% cost overruns are incurred, and production is only 70% of
expectations under the base case (which assumes a recovery factor of 34%),
the economic rate of return would still be a satisfactory 37%.
92.       In addition to the quantifiable benefits, the project would facili-
tate the transfer of technology. This would be achieved through training of
staff (management staff as well as engineers and technicians), import of
modern and high technology equipment for oilfield and laboratories,
establishment of a computer center and provision of technical assistance.
This should lead to improved operational practices, and ensure that workers
can handle the sophisticated equipment purchased as part of the project.
Furthermore, while it is as yet difficult to quantify the benefits to be
derived from the exploration of East Wenliu, the fact that hydrocarbons have
already been found in certain parts of that area indicates that
possibilities for the discovery of additional reserves are high and the
potential returns from this investment would be significant.
93.       The project carries the operational risks which are inherent in
petroleum exploration and development. The inadequate safety practices in
drilling operations and the absence of blow-out preventers increase the risks
to human life and equipment. To attentuate these risks, the project would
include a review of ZPEB-s safety practices (para. 81). In addition, the
utilization of modern equipment and the provisions for expatriate technical
assistance in deep drilling, the various studies and training included in
the project would help reduce operational risks.
94.       The project also involves geological uncertainties.  The behavior of
a reservoir can never be predicted with certainty and the zones of thin
productive sands at South Wenliu may present production problems and reduce
the effectiveness of secondary recovery methods. However, in the case of
South Wenliu, data from 35 wells drilled into the structure and the results of
seismic data of generally good quality make for a fairly good estimate of the
size of the oil deposit. Even with lower, more conservative estimates, the
project remains economically attractive. Regarding East Wenliu, oil has
already been discovered by two wells in the northern portion and from a
geological standpoint, there is promise that the rest of the field will be



- 28 -
oil-bearing. The 3-D seismic survey and technical assistance included in
the proposed project should attenuate the geological risks associated with
the development of South Wenliu and exploration of East Wenliu.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
95.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Zhongyuan
Petroleum Exploration Bureau, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
96.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are that China's State Council
shall have approved the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement; and that a
satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement shall have been signed between the
Government and ZPEB.
97.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
98.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 9, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 29 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE))-
TOTAL            9561.0                                            MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    3184.0                    1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                           ..            ..          290.0             261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           559.9          434.9          733.6/c           448.7                  701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    672865.0         815253.0       976735.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)         ..           12.0           13.2              17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                  1245.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                    1570.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                               2070
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                             70.4           85.3          100.9             158.1                  255.9
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND          211.8          253.7          302.9             355.9                 1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                 ..             ..           32.3              36.8                   39.9
15-64 YRS.                                 ..             ..           63.7              59.7                   56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                          ..             ..            4.0               3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.0            1.9            1.8/d             2.0                     2.3
URBAN                                     ..             ..            2.8               3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           40.1/e, g      39.6ZI         21.1/g            29.3                    31.8
CRVDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           13.6/e! 8       9.6Z           7.8k             11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                      ..            ..            1.4I:             2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..             ..             ..              19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                  ..          100.0          117.0             108.1                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         86.0/e           ..          103.0              97.3                  106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                58.07            ..           62.6              56.9                   54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               ..             ..           26.0              20.0                   13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE             ..             ..            4.5/h            10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)            ..             ..           64.0/h            57.8                   59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                   ..             ..           56.0/h            89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..             ..             ..              32.9                   32.0
URBAN                                     ..             ..             ..              70.7                   51.9
RURAL                                     ..             ..             ..              22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..             ..             ..              18.1                    37.7
URBAN                                     ..             ..             ..              72.7                   65.7
RURAL                                     ..             ..             ..               4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                3009.8/e,i    1709.1/i        1096.2/5          3297.8                 8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           2847.1/eif      538.8/f        483.2if         14929.3                 4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 2142.5/e        737.8          492.8            1100.4                 1047.5
URBAN                                     ,.             ..          172.1             301.3                  651.6
RURAL                                     ..             ..          702.3            5815.7                 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..            ..             ..                ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     ..             ..
URBAN                                     ..             ..
RURAL                                     ..             ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..             ..
URBAN                                     ..             ..
RURAL                                     ..             ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..             ..
URBAN                                     ..             ..
RURAL                                     ..             ..



- 30 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     102.0          103.0          118.0              97.4                    96.2
MALE                         ..            ..          111.0/k           101.0                    99.8
FEMALE                       ..            ..          114.0/k            87.8                    92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                        ..             ,.           79.0              53.0                    37.6
MALE                         ..            ..           92.0              63.8                    41.1
FEMALE                       ..            ..           65.0              41.3                    34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)           ..            ..            2.4               1.7                    20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                   ..             ..           27.0              37.7                    35.5
SECONDARY                                 ..             .,           19.0              20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)               ..             ..           66.0              52.1                    73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                ..             ..             ..               1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                ..             ..             ..              35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                ..             ..             ..               3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         ..             ..             ..              16.4                    53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..             ..             ..               3.6                     2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         234602.4/e,j  339960.5fl    403163.1/j
FEMALE (PERCENT)                          ..             ..             ..              29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                     ..             ..           71.0              70.0                    52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                        ..             ..           17.0              15.0                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     37.01e         41.7           41.8              40.0                    38.5
HALE                                        ..             ..             ..              51.8                    50.5
FEMALE                                      ..             ..             ..              23.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                      ..            ..            0.9               1.0                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..             ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..             ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..             ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..             ..             ..             133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                     ..             ..             ..             111.5                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..             ..             ..                ..                   178.2
RURAL                                     ..             ..             ..                ..                   164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..             ..             ..              43.8                   24.4                            a
RLRAL                                     ..             ..             ..              51.7                   41.1
Not available.
Not applicable.
NOTES
*    All data exclude Taiwan, China.
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends an availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic   Country estimate is 644 kilogram of coal equivalent.
Td   Latest estimate of annual growth of population is 1.2%.
/e   1957; /f Including barefoot doctors; /g Bank crude birth and death rate estimates for 1979 were higher
than the official data. The official rates have been adjusted accordingly; /b Bank demographic analyses
utilize a higher estimate of the crude mortality rate than the 6.2 that is officially given. The values
of infant and child mortality shown here, based on the Bank's analyses, are thus higher than use of the
official figures would indicate; and the estimate here of life expectancy is lower than the official
figure of 68.2 years; /i Excluding traditional medical doctors.
Ij   Including military personnel and those awaiting permanent jobs, most of whom are in temporary jobs; /k 1977.
Hay, 1982



- 31 -                                                                                      ANlNEX I
________OF          __IA_____TM                                                                 Page    3   of    6
W..-;  Aisbeegh th, dat. are dram   Irn5000    e.esl  jodd  deeh  -"  .hibotttl- sod reliable, i  should als  o   .e..ote  tbt thy wayouhels-
sotesulyruest oboo soa  of the tori of sradstdirod deifttitor   sod  --prnto  -sd by diff.et-r    --saoto  toJo.                 oto   tbu data.  Tho daa.r,  sure-n
fbel.-,  -fsril so des..rIbe orders of -goittdo, lodtrantrtd."  -td  -htostt    crrl   ajo- diff-r-re   hoooo  sobIs
I        -rtaec   groaett  (I) oe'ans.o-trytoop o  ehssohj-tco--ocyad  (2)      a ..sorrygt-peilbe -soof.o                      h -gtreotoga     - fuoabtheoosere   000
oflb  sb]       -or.c   Cocy  for   "High Irco-    dOt  oore             gophot- "tfddts  Z_os  so_t  grits sod etddls fat"isclse  b-rsat  of attS-e
so  ocloo   f-lioj   os . go  ho  ooroegroop data oh. a-ooo- at- pop.lartotsefgbtd arlfmatcwostE  eah tod-t-oo  sod obos  o-ty sbe
attolo)o  ib.  -.ooic  i  a. gcoac har haro for that irdirto-   Si-r  the     -etge of roore    so   ho todosor  dep_do  _o the  -rl-abilly of dats
tdIs  o Ibot.rorosoalh  sootl-eed                     _1.Uato   doetoso  of too tedlrot- to sother.  Th.-o avrges ace oly taut1 i  t:to omaro  tbo Ooita  of
AME  (th-o...od sq.ku.l                                       ~pprtao  yei                                               optlgd.. "  t toto1, orbn, sod e-l      Poaotr(total.
Outlal - Totol sofoe-  aooa ropaoLsg fo-d are  sod blood ostoc; 1979 deta.                            -obo   s od toro)    idodd by  h nob   -ep-l-e  -ober of hosplte1 beds
Aotfk.ot-tr  - furfoota of  atrotaa            -os  osed tooporarlly or porsotly                     seolable io paloil  aud prbare  g--rrl aof ep-rlaled hsIa  sd  r-
000  rope  pasoeca  sorot od kifrhat gerdos  ot to lib  folios; 1979 d.to.                 hbbli-rttououse.   fopitols  oe eutobllsbowtts por-otly ostffed
by 01 isat  -u  phystil-   Oatabliohsosto yroeldbg prln-lpa1ly ossto-
190P Pl  1117k 100) - Iffy yet ceylla .urtmat- at -eret sarloe  price, -t-                             di. 1 toes  -r  .et lorlodod.   oRal1 ho-yti.L.  h-t,er  ilorods health
foIste  by sawoooealr             do as Oorld look Attda- (1970-30 bosto); 1990,                     ood sotaltroee  rot Pes=octly  .tofted to a physlolo  (hot bya
iog. std 100 dan_                                                                                  sedi_olasltst. _toal  alft, er.) seoth offet.                 -a,    eooro
dartr. ard pooldo a lsiteod I-s. of solto f-I            ltlo.to  statI-
55100  f09lOotfiIg  ?Ro  CAPITA - -.-Ia tsapro    f -oascisso--gy I(oa                                 trodl p-cpus  arbor hospirtef         rld O.     hrolal5or l tpttas,
ued ligolto, parcol-ta,;ort-l gas s-d hydro-, oa-le-o aod                       Iot .les-            aod  ..r.  boyroa =     lorIsi. orctsl houpitels sad sodt-   ardseuy
irtrtc) Ie killg.... of col-        oooestt  slo   1960. t970, ard 190                               rtes.lers.od hspitatu  -u  ierladed oy sod- at total.
data.                                                                                              -anoso           R ret .Sootla  sod - Totlol  _toA-  of adstusloot oeo   tahta
fee  tospitola dleided by the  -oeo- of beds.
POPULAT.yN 05 De VITAL OTATtOTOft
Total fpoelssbso. fOld-Yea  fthooa-dsl - A. of daly 1; 1990. 1970. ord 1991                     ff009101
dues.                                                                   dosrsoo~~~~~~~A.t     Ott  of Hosobodh-oeoe   ssbosrod) - totet. otboo. asd eoa
Mrba   Peea -t           - ferolo  oal ) t - gat  of roZeto total popoltotlo;                        Ahoofodtostsof a groop of lodtvldo-ls who share liiolt  os oe
Sitsoldflal.tioo    lor so ara  say of_te         -p.. oa hiIity of data                     -rd their solo asas.  A b-sdeo oe lodfIt say or sy so  ho iorloded  t
_mo  rctzele; 1960. 1073.sd190dt.                                                              thu ho..ebhld for stotiutlrt.  posposen
Pee,1ttlab    Projectg.e                                                                            ouAonoorkuo et  reeso....s tP        o- ntat , orbar. so  roo -       oreg  o
Popattlon  0 ysr  1L0  - Correot yoplaloopri-       tlolar  haoo.d so 190                   hot of Pors.t. Per soon lo all r-bo,-.r toss. o.rayd rososottal
total yooat by afe  -ud s   and ttsit wornollty and f-elility rates                             fejsitge,_tenpolioly.  Doe1lioteoo-ladoout-peeooet eteatare-  and
Prjotopar- -et  tot soota1ty ftale   .nprls- of theo  totem   saco-                       o-totpled pato..
log !ite sy-tlty at hItth Ilutt..olog sith  -otttytA Per ca 9 It  Uoroso                      bre- to ttn-rrltty fysrosot o  deeitegs) - tttal, orat. cod   -1ro  -
_-el, ac  bot  lt   -opo-  .so     -tbtlistg at 77.5 pears.  Thy yRo--                         Creoo ..loooi damilga alth  1elsoittIcy I5 lotftgcfaer  Pa p                -teatge
otet  0o  fe_Ititny  _sro also   oo  rhrs-  Isoets as-to g dellr  o                             f  otl  aeb,  ol cora  d-ltogoo_yorts-ly.
f-toilicy so-odlot to Lrow-   eri sod past tartly  pi l0p-cfo--cc
lohcoooyI  thor  _stoo   ott of theotlnroht- lonof oo-tilty                         0001A91
sd 'feerilty t-eds forpoo-         o   opas                                                   djna    ooittllr
trtottor-  2poolatlo-Iooot_ttoo-    oootsteet  t   ocitostlayshoolP.        -h '                                      total, solo atd foso1e  - Grot-    -Ito, solr o   feoa
thehi th  areIt  qoo  t  tie  door rota, , ro   alotiso..t. ro           r                  stroiteor of o   a0u  t0 tha pebir  ta-el sptotasof  -tap-tl-
sots  I.totu.  int   trchl-rd  -tic  nyt-  fItoilfoy roto   d-rlt- topluy                                     -otog    oorros             otsot   tolda8ues   gd b-il
the "  - -isoo   isor  of sot- - 0    -1psycdootioo tare  ubh- eal-h       eto                    yoru hot odlostd f-o  difffrrot isogna of prborysd-rtioo; Itt
of-_se  rupi-o  ilosoif e-orly.   h  ontltsoty popoloriot slo                                       -teo  oos ilslth ur,toersL sd  -atouur -ot so   - red100 psernt
sti-sod so ftho hoat of the ytoj,ctsd rastrtto                  f rho toOloliot                   oioe- o .-pupils ar  bo1   or shoo  the  ffIio1 school ag..
to the yea  7201. sod Ithe  -a  of d-oli-  of tettlitny eats to replo-                          Oosd tyhsbsl - t101s, solo ord femle -Cfopotod os oboro  .e..ed"r
sot _ivl                                                                                          drtlorqIe  at Isast foo  ysr to a                   Hros  pristy Instrortlun
Yeooatoay  oulto  Is rnarhrd - The y-o  nhao ototi..ary popoloti-                                    Prooldot goo_ri, ooctlooa.. I e tece  tooo   locroloafrpopls
ule  ti  berosthed.                                                                            _soly of it to it pose  of oge; ....r.spoodeo.t. oeo or  goosrally
yet sq. is. - Mid-year ypyiplo. yp-   q--c kflootne  (100 h- -tte) of                           Oootsletls sftr                      f secsodoty) - Vorot...oIlo-titttioh-
tot-  0100; 1960. 1970 sod 1979 fot.                                                            loI_f   otoca,ldotta,o   thor progro-t  obich opeote l~dtepod-
P_ so. ho.  so-crlooollso           - totttd   oo -o  foE sclolo t -d                             sooty ot .s dnpor-st  rI  eoodsty  -ti-tlro-os
al;19,1901 oud 0970 dotoa.                                                             Ptttohccto-etoy   o   n lc       oa   tdooooldI
to aoAgbo  inotoro, fnct)- tblldto-  (0-14 yssraf.  -ooiof-ofo li5-                           prIto  ood `crodsr  tee     dtotdsd by oosbr  o  .f te"h-,t to the
94 yssr) " -t rtod (65 ya..a atd  -oer  as y-orsta0a of eld-yo-  y.oy-                            rorrospoodlof Isola.
latiot; 1607. 197'0. aod tod0 data.                                                               dotc tIIry  oefyrst  -Lrroodt   fsbio to road a=,-ito)
yea  yorloio  for  9501-90  199-7.,ad 1970-i
l!.olAtorbo  booth Rate (e__to) - other - lo-a  groth  -ro  of -tbat pops-                      COhtltf07OdO
tarius   origO-bi.lOf-yg  as  1907-~80.                                                ysostln  er _nhooodcoonto -    ssur tars  -totioe sotor
Crod  Oiei lts (er  -utond) - do-1o lbs. b-trha   -  thoosod of oii-ye-                       ro  seoio   L_s  t.oeghtyns; sotlodss asholoor, heotas  aud
yplloo.toth; 1990, 1970, oed 1990 dora.                                                           atittoeo-      lls
crras leanh lre (ptor  thorsd) - dAe.o.  Oothn p-r thoo--d  of ud-y-o                               Rd710 ItEloet (yt  tha...and poyritltoof  - 011 typoso  tersoo t foerdlo
p     Irslo 1960. t9 70  oo  ,9B0 dato.                                                     b-odra-u  to gerotol pobitc P., lbooud of ypotutio.; ...clodouso
Croo  oeyerdo-olott~ sot-berge  t-b-r of doorsrh-              ooa  nill Osor 10                                ..eo    coteo_r  In ono_tes aed t _ytt  uto  regintrtlor" of rodto
hoc ..-Io c-ycdoorlo  ynoiod if ohs r-p-tnrsrruo    rroi-n-nt s---                                           to  ff-te; dab  fo   srl ylot toy ro  be  -p-0otbl.  i10c
tiltryrstno; suoalfytfion-       I     -&oncr  00d10t is 1991, 1971,. od 19ff.                    soot coso-cir  abolohrt tlrro- g.
Psato Plu.stg-Arrertu,~. OOO  thooos              A otoole.b-n of acotore                      loorescofl    o  oheueoi yrolais) -  V   -ere-n- for b-od-our  to
of hlrb-rootol detros oosr soototo o  sotlcol fooly ybnogyrgrso.                   gooa   olrptlh-ood popolotioo; rotld- onlirneo-d TO r_el_o
tsdrleoo-or  (prst                    -orldno        Po -  Peeoso oforld                              toott       _odlt. yeto- thote-gluc-ttreo"   f TV -setuus                -t
tobi-otiot d-tetd prbiot ly tornelo   goea   hena                    It t    -oid-rd
P0OD AM0 flkIfTLOt                                                                                     tobn'aly   if it atysor.ta  leas.t foo  flown sorb.
toden ofPood Prdootiorper Capta  1196-7N100)- tede  of Pn  e-pitaoo-oo              fioso  Mo..at_AtAetd-oryyr lapitiaro Yf-  -osed  os the o-b of
Psost Ha    f  l   oo  to  oiots-   Prodaetono-lod-see   so d feet aod                            titbet  sold dortog the ysoo. ilocdlug aduloalo-  to deio-lo  looo
IsIn  Iosdt  erbosa.Condltil..o...r prlssey goodu  (r.g. sogn--o                                  aol   bible union
boo tead o  sgt)   htsaeodible sod  _toOossrtnt   t. . ooffet sea
to    r  sooel      Agegt  pr-d-rolt of esbch          . rog.r  Is  ..u.. ..               L.000 FORCEt
uaiaslaecg    roon  prc   og.s   916,17,od  1980 dato.                                        Total Lso  rott   (tosado -loostaly actio- psto, looloog
Pe  itylne. nyof _slorto_ycnt   f _etosnoa    - --totd 0t. cooatd forte  ood onsploynado b                                           o- -lodlflosrotet    toeCt. nr,
e.tory oqo-sitt of  -1-foo  oorplieaolo           b -lehtotr  Pre capIta                          toto        pooltloo of all aoss   O          tioro-  o ear t-  -o-ot- are
pot day.  A-o1lble soppit..... toaelo do-ooto. F-odo-o."  ispotto lr,-                            o cos-rbir; 1960. 1070 rod 1980 fb
esor.ora rbaasos  Ltokooh   Not  -rplits so-lrde soloa  fead, usea,tesl  (p-ooot) - F..l  lbefores   otrs... o..f totel labor forr-
q-sottoe-  -od to fred   -rrs  e,sd I --s to dtsrtboeoe -                  shoir-                 botri-sto. fsrost      Lahtr foros lu fotoing,E..forotry, 0.,1100 sod
sot tort   ofae   by PIA Oar                              -3hooigci  od  for otorsl oct-            fishio,o  reeorg    f  -ooi~ labor forre; ig, 1070 sod 1980 data.
oly sd haith toodnidelg            rero tal temeteat-r body roigh-o  ase                        Iedrary frrceer   -  oboeforc  fcc  1017,  reterto               -eofa-triuo
sod  -s  dlert'b'tio  of      -pltito  aud altslo   10porc for osote at                             aed olrrift.  -o-  -rd gaod   sesoo   of tot1 labor forts;
boo-hoIto.. loI; 1991-At, 1970 ood I197'7 dota..                                                    1900,1"l9t70  td  190 ds-o
*                               ~~~~~~~~Pee oaeteo -uoyet of eoeo}eo           a) - tonl  toetot of yPrtpita                       fartloptea - hats (p_-ru) -    tl sl., sod f-sIr - Potbrtoiptis-o
00  py of food pre day.  lot -cpply offood is deftsodooohos.  Is-                            a-ttityrstos ore  -op-td storal    -, soi..od froal   obor forra
orur_tos  for oI  _ootr.- rotbitabod by 0004 pt-iods  ort uoisi                                   p-etco "fo  of total, solo  -od forlo yoyoltoolo  of all agn spe-t-losy;
atosrsof 60 grm    ftoto   protet  Per doy dod 20 gr-   of  niola   srd                     1960, 1970, and l9g0 dUta.  TOss  or  hated 00 Ill's  poetiicpstboo rtsa
yots- prteti, ofwhich, 17 gra-   Isoil Os, aebo.l               prot hto . flrotad-               reft-tiog age.set .teotor-  of ths ?potlftioo, sod long  tw  treed.A
aoisolptotso  00 0  lorcto tfo     -rorld, pyooy-n  iy  M0  Io thu maLd                 ltorOesd               oto - otgo of  opola.tiot sod- it o-d 65 os-d s
Worl  Pod oroy   1 _6-99 i170 and 1077 dst.                                                    to thtItot1 labor fott.
Io ryraeott     I'rl  fros oobso  aod "I-u-P--crO   uoept  of f00t dt-
rts  -fs  uofo.l  sod polate     ~ to  rs  po  -,; 1961-95, 197t ard 1077 data.           ISttOO  DOOTROBTtfO
_tldtor   -) Deth hos(-e ciososed) -  o-oo  de-hb  yrr t-oosad to                          Perc-roo  of    -E rre -o ots  (it  to rash ord                    i-f    ootrd by etiutt
age gr-a  1-4 yooea. to obilderni tohib  age gooop. tot mas  devlpttgoto-                             peroot.frIh.s   0pero.oro A2  lercet. s-d pooes  400ot
tries data dorbod Iron life robl-t; 1960. 1970 std 1960 dato.                                     of heoo.ebo1de.
Hff097.                                                                                           P0010Th TORGO.tm01011
III  goeooacy  o tlth  year) -Aont-g  to-bor o  y-oa of life r-sing                    The      " foloeo   siceto  ar -osy  yprooluato  oso          of posorty i-ole,
51bel   90   970 so   91  ao                        rd  soadhetoeprtd  ehcoldalsato.
of Ig pet hboaetd Iluo  blrobs; tOd0, 1970 so  1990 lod                                               oaoPsoerty Ioss  moot Is that irow  isos  bels whtb a sistos
Acces tohef Osoo fpc__t of  orshst-ool              doto   1   rars  - gs-                    -oltitllssly adeosto  dInt pi.. esseotL1 os-tood esqit-oats tO 000
bne of p-prtr (toto, c1      o  sodroal  tih osoal   cos  oefe                                    aigud.ble.
so tr eob  . tor  romPrteore   booobe    rTeg", o                    -sltr'sI.o) a           soleantpocygcaoorlioe-thlr.  ofescospr  atl
yreaeuof thoir  spotcppltos    es - :orbos ossaspobloc                                     ya-sotl  oone ol the co-tY.  Orbes lese  Le dertund f o  the r-Ie
-roao  readpo-   a.ted ..1sos  th-a 100 se.ler  feos o boos  may bs                        leel te  adjonawo  for huiler r.st of  isetu   io orbsoea
rooldered asbeug withIn r--onble s-oes  of  hot hue..-.                 rsrsl sta1              fssstrfP-      olroosoo   Ab.olsru r s Tr-arm  Leosl fr-roon   -otban
seasobis a-ee sod lowl  that~ the husoe-ife or  e rot  of the bososheld                         asdesel       - Prrrt of  p            (.,soc  oeh   oedrea)wsoe"bsle
do_t ha.e Is epsd a dbsproporotoo             par ft h  day  In f...biag lthuya
fastlpa surer need..                                b-   ..
Ns-be  of pesple  trotel. sobso, sod rort  seve  by eerreee disps..laI
prengsof thbotne-peoti-pusotus.E_stn diposo   ap  wtsltde
esd  easmbobeyae-os    hy.a    r  b  see of plt peises sod sle-
Husase   arPyfra     Pogo1s'L-t  dibodod by o,*sr of ePsoLehot phys-                                                                 Srnsrsd soss   saooi-loso
-fe    ulfldfe  5 sdtceb eohool an asesestry lere.                                                                      trosos   A-lys.s sod Posisrafow   esesoe-
Peeslstiffe se   Vseh-  Ree-uo  - Our.soenbooOtlded bWu~ E o  erto.isOe                                                                                Ry 1960
age sod fault itsdan   oso  estate   -ares  er-otital se



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (%) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                      2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    2.7    5.7
Light industry                   8.3       7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1
Heavy industry                   11.6      9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7
Net Material Product (NMP)          5.2      4.8      12.4    7.0    6.9    3.0
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4
N1MP deflator       (1970=100)  90.7   100.0    99.6   100.4    105.1   106.5   109.6
Exchange rate       (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.83    1.66         1.54    1.50    1.71
Amount
1981                  Shares of GDP (Z)              Average Annual Growth (Z) at Constant Prices
National Accounts             ($ billion)   1957    1979    1981    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
/a       /a        /a
GDP                           263.2       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8           5.8       4.9      4.1       4.2
Agriculture                  91.4           ..    31.4    34.7    33.3    31.4    1.6          3.2       4.2       3.0      3.0
Industry                    115.5          ..    43.7    43.9    44.9    46.6   12.1           8.9       7.7      4.6       5.0
Other                        56.3           ..    25.0    21.4    21.8    22.0    3.5          4.3     -3.1        4.5      4.5
Consumption                   185.0        76.4    69.8    70.3    73.8    76.2    2.7           5.4       5.0       5.3       4.9
Investment                     76.5        23.2    31.1    29.1    27.5    25.0    9.8           6.8       2.1       2.6       2.3
Exports GNFS                   24.4         3.7/b   6.0/b   9.2        8.5    10.0    1.6/b    8.0/b   23.1          1.7       7.8
Imports GNFS                   22.7         3.5Tb   7.0 T    8.6       9.8    11.2    2.37h    9.4Th    9.3          7.3       7.1
National savings               78.5        23.6/c  31.5    29.8    26.3    24.3         ..       ...       3.9       0.9       2.6
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                   1957          1979          1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign            28.7          27.3          21.J
borrowing)
Current expenditures                           15.1          17.0          15.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   +13.6         +10.3           +6.1
Capital expenditures                           13.7          15.6           8.5
Foreign borrowing                               0.7           0.9           1.8
Other Indicators                               1957-79   1979-81   1981-85   1985-90
GDP growth rate (%)                            5.4/d     4.9/d      4.1        4.2
GDP per capita growth rate (x)                3.5/d      3.6/d      2.8        3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)             8.3
ICOR                                          5.4          ..       6.3        6.2
Marginal savings rate                         0.42                 0.17       0.17
Import elasticity                             0.95      1.90       1.78       1.69
la  NMP basis.
/b  Goods only.
/c  GDS.
Id  Based on the official real NMP index (as are all figures for past XMP and GDP growth in this data sheet).  At Indian
prices, GNP is estimated to have grown at 4.6% and GNP per capita at 2.7% during 1957-79.



- 33 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                              Annual Growth Rates (X)
(million US$ at                         (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                    current prices)               Actual                           Projected
1981           1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports             22,027          10.1   25.5   16.8   15.9   -3.9   -0.8    1.7    6.9    7.7
Energy                         5,054            ..      ..     ..    ..  -45.2  -20.6  -27.2  -40.2  -73.9
Other primary                  5,306            ..      ..     ..    ..    6.5    1.6    4.0    4.0    5.0
Manufactures                  10,533            ..      ..     ..    ..    9.7    2.3    5.6    6.8    7.8
Other                          1,134            ..      ..     ..    ..    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Merchandise imports             20,292          32.6   21.7   16.7   -8.6    3.2   15.1    4.3    4.2    7.9
Food                           5,340            ..      ..     ..     ..    3.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Petroleum                          0            ..      ..    ..    ..    0         0      0      0       -/a
Machinery and equipment        5,317            ..      ..     ..    ..    7.8    9.9    4.0    5.0    5.0
Other                          9,635            ..      ..     ..    ..    3.3   22.5    4.1    4.1    4.1
Prices
Export price index (1978=100)        ..        100.0  113.3  131.3  134.9  137.6  146.7  158.7  171.7  185.5
Import price index (1978=100)        ..        100.0  119.4  139.2  145.5  149.4  158.8  170.4  182.6  195.1
Terms of trade index (1978-100)    ..          100.0   95.2   94.3   92.7   92.1   92.4   93.1   94.0   95.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)              Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                          (at constant prices)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
Exports                     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       1.6       8.0     19.4       0.9      7.8
Energy                     13.8   19.5   25.1   22.9    4.2    0          ..        ..       ..    -34.0       -/a
Other primary              39.7   34.1   28.4   24.1   23.3   26.9        ..        ..       ..       4.0      5.0
Manufactures               46.5   46.4   46.5   47.8   66.5   68.0        ..        ..       ..       9.7      9.0
Other                       0       0      0      5.2    6.0    5.1       ..        ..       ..       5.0      5.0
Imports                     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       2.3       9.4      9.9       7.6      7.4
Food                         ..      ..     ..   26.3   24.4   25.5       ..        ..       ..       5.0      5.0
Petroleum                   0       0      0      0       0      8.0      ..       O        0        -/a       -/a
Machinery and equipment   17.5   25.2   27.5   26.2   25.0   22.0         ..        ..       ..       6.4      5.0
Other                        ..      ..     ..   47.5   50.6   44.5       ..        ..       ..       9.9      4.1
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With         Share of Trade With            Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (%)   Developing Countries (Z)          Planned Economies (%) /b
Direction of Trade           1978            1981         1978           1981              1978            1981
Exports                    37.3            45.9         51.6           50.2              11.1             3.9
Imports                    73.3            76.8        17.5            18.7               9.2             4.5
/a  China is expected to become a net importer of petroleum between 1985 and 1990.
/b Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Page of 6 of 6
Population:  977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita: US$290 (1980)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                      Projected
Indicator                          1978    1979    1980    1981        1982    1985    1990
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services        10,606  15,351  20,901  25,157   24,663  33,700  71,451
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.        9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027   21,585  29,037  70,166
Imports of goods and services        11,912  17,582  23,946  23,628   24,928  38,848  75,509
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.       10,745  15,619  21,243  20,292   21,513  34,126  65,799
Net transfers                            597     656      640     467       617      767   1,017
Current account balance                -705  -1,575 -2,405   1,996          352  -4,381  -4,327
Private direct investment                  -       -       57     265       315      465     715
MLT loans (net)                        -830      822   1,756       769    1,278   Z,773   5,536
Orticial                                        ..                      z,198   3,231   -,546
Private                                 ..      ..       ..              -920    -458      -10
other capital                            822   1,362   1,082    -787          0   1,143    -572
Change in net reserves t'-" =
increase)                              708    -609    -490  -2,243   -1,945          0   1,353
International reserves                6,283   6,892   7,382  10,096   12,041  12,041  18,164
of which:  gold                        ..       ..   5,120   5,120    5,120   5,120
Reserves as months imports               6.3     4.7      3.7      5.1      5.8      3.7     2.9
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                      ..
Concessional loans                     ..
DAC
OPEC
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional loans                   ..      ..
Official export credits              ..       ..
IBRD /c
Other multilateral                    ..      ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          ..      ..   5,441   5,696
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt                        ..      ..
Debt service
Total service payments                  ..
Interest
Payments as % exports GNFS              ..      ..      5.0     7.8
Average interest rate on new
loans (x)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)



35 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or
Credit                                                     Amounts ($ millions)
Number   Year       Borrower          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
2021      1981   People's Republic   University
1167               of China             Development   100.0  100.0    199.7
1261/a   1982   People's Republic   Agricultural
of China             Development             60.0     60.0
Total                                100.0  160.0    259.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA       100.0  160.0
Total undisbursed                    100.0  159.7    259.7
/a Became effective October 7, 1982.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1982)
None
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 2021    University Development Project; $100 Million Loan and
Credit No.1167   $100 Million Credit of November 4, 1981; Effective Date:
February 4, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Good progress has been made in project implementation; bid
evaluation and recommended awards for about $45 million in equipment have been
approved by the Bank. Initial disbursements for technical assistance (about
$300,000) have been made and a major contract for about $5 million in expert
services is awaiting final signature.
Credit No. 1261 North China Plain Agriculture Project; $60 Million Credit of
June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 7, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
Project civil works began immediately after credit signature and are
well underway; other project works are also progressing on schedule.



- 36 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the Project       : One year
(b)  The project was prepared by  : The Government and the Bank
(c) Date of first presentation
to the Bank                  :  September 1981
(d) Date of first mission to
Consider the project         :  September 1981
(e)  Appraisal mission                  September 1982
(f)  Completion of negotiations        March 1983
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness        August 1983
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The State Council shall have approved the Loan Agreement and the
Project Agreement; and
(b) A satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement shall have been signed
between the Government and ZPEB.
B. Other Conditions
The Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau would:
(a) establish by September 30, 1983 special Project Units in
Production Company No. 1 and the Gas Management Company
(para. 77);



- 37 -                                 ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) carry out studies on the following issues with the assistance of
qualified consultants, review the findings and recommendations
with the Bank, and agree on a plan of action: (i) drilling and
completion practices (para. 78); (ii) management information
system (para. 79); (iii) reservoir engineering (para. 80); and
(iv) oilfield safety practices (para. 81);
(c) after completion of the 3-D seismic survey and drilling of the
first three exploration wells, consult with the Bank and agree on
a plan regarding objectives and location of further drilling in
East Wenliu (para. 80);
(d) appoint qualified consultants by June 30, 1983 to assist in
carrying out the LPG plant project component (para. 80);
(e) develop training curricula and provide equipment for a training
center (para. 80); and
(f) annually review with the Bank its current and projected finances
(para. 89).



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
ZHONGYUAN-WENLIU PETROLEUM PROJECT
Petroleum Product Prices
lb Domestic price
/a  International      as % world
Ex-refinery prices   Retail prices        price           prices
Y/ton    $/ton      Y/ton   $/ton       $/ton
Gasoline       590       310       800      420         310               135
Kerosene        420      220        680     358          300              119
Diesel          240      126       420      220          260               85
Fuel oil         55       29        134/c    71          165               43
LPG            230       120       300      158         225                70
Natural gas      -         -       2.9      1.6         4.0                40
( Y/MCF) ($/MCF)    ($/MCF)/d
/a  Weighted average price; 30% of fuel oil is consumed as feedstock and is
not charged the special tax on petroleum fuel.
/b FOB Singapore price on March 1, 1983.
/c Assume transport cost, averaged at Y30/ton.
/d In terms of Btu fuel oil equivalent.



IBRD 16780
60'                  666                               a'                                ISO'                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMBER 1982
0l 1 ~ 60661/6,1, I'l 606'   I 06066  066'66   60 .  ,    ~  6,yI   6666606k 66
SOvIE6  UN     ON                                                                    \..  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HRUNI(N~v 
u-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
/                                                      S 06.AA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DSI1S66II                            /RPB-6j
/   "'                                                                  rfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O   OE
</o,ooo6  MO  6~~~~~~~~~~~   o    0  L   I    A          A                                                  I~~~~~~~IN  
v ~ ~ ~ ~ */ZM/A/                       .
0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~,\  --7                                                                                               /                        SDNEM/A,C               4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICU  A DREIERE
HUTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POt $ REPLICE
UIIAKA ~ ~  ~ ~ "I                                                                                                 IRPBLC 
A                                                      GA/DA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BURM    CA/NA ,                                                                       KRE0'                                  0
  C  /                                                                                                 /500 ID/ID      .                                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:1~I11-MTR
566/'  06? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                   6     ~      ~     ~       R
56   / ~~~~~~ 666~~~~~0        I                /                                                                  ,       OVA~DMO  RAI 
~~6                                                                'I                                               Cl-/I N  APUBIC 
T H A I L A N D~~~~~~~~~ IVAND REFIERIE



