                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 28797

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (FSLT-70600)

                                               ON A

                                               LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.06 MILLION

                               TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                 WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                              FOR A

              SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADUSTMENT LOAN




                                           June 28, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2003)

                                Currency Unit = Mexican Pesos MXP
                                        MXP1 = US$ 0.089
                                        US$ 1 = 11.23MXP

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 - December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BRFL     Bank Restructuring Facility Loan
BRFLII   Second Bank Restructuring Facility Loan
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CETES    Treasury Certificates (Certificados de Tesorería de la Federación)
CNBV     National Banking and Securities Comission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores)
FOBAPROA Trust Fund for the Protection of Bank Savings (Fondo Bancario de Protección al Ahorro)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IPAB     Bank Savings Protection Institute (Instituto para la Protección al Ahorro Bancario)
IMF      International Monetary Fund
NAFIN    Nacional Financiera S.A.
SHCP     Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
UDI      Investment Units (Indexed)




                              Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                            Country Director       Isabel Guerrero
                              Sector Director      Danny Leipziger
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Mariluz Cortés

                                           MEXICO
                    Second Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Matrix of Policy Actions                                                22
Annex 9. Comments from IPAB                                                      26

Project ID: P071323                                                  Project Name: MX Bank Restructuring Facility II
Team Leader: Mariluz Cortes                                          TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MX Bank Restructuring Facility II                        L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70600
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (80%); Central government administration (20%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Legal
                            institutions for a market economy (P); Macroeconomic management
                            (S); Standards and financial reporting (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/13/2001                                     Effective: 02/22/2002                02/22/2002
     Appraisal: 04/16/2001                                         MTR:                             04/25/2002
      Approval: 06/21/2001                                      Closing: 11/28/2003                 11/28/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          NACIONAL FINANCIERA S. N. C. (NAFIN)/BANK SAVINGS PROTECTION
                                           INSTITUTE (IPAB) AND THE CNBV
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 John Pollner (Acting)                          Fernando Montes-Negret
Team Leader at ICR:             Mariluz Cortes                                 Mariluz Cortes
ICR Primary Author:             Mariluz Cortes; Cara Zappala


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. The objective of the loan was to assist the Mexican Government to implement the Second
Stage of its Bank Restructuring Program (the Program), aimed at bringing about a better
functioning banking sector, able to withstand external shocks and to expand prudent lending to
the private sector, including groups and enterprises today largely excluded from bank financing.

3.1.2. The first stage of the Program was completed under the First Bank Restructuring Facility
Loan (Loan 7003-ME) approved in December 1999. The first stage of the Program involved: (i)
the reform of the legal framework to improve incentives in the financial sector through the
introduction of a limited deposit insurance coverage and a major revamping of the bankruptcy and
secured lending legislation to strengthen contract enforcement and creditor rights; (ii) the
adoption of a comprehensive program of regulatory reforms to improve banks' capitalization,
soundness and transparency; and (iii) the capitalization and resolution programs of three large
insolvent banks in Government hands since the 1994/1995 banking crisis (these included the sale
of Serfin, Mexico's third largest bank to a Spanish consortium (BSCH), concluded in May 2000;
mergers of Promex/Bancomer; and the sale of a majority ownership of Inverlat to Bank of Nova
Scotia; and (iv) the implementation of a program to sell assets from failed banks that had been
transferred to the Institute for the Protection of Bank Assets (IPAB). Under this loan, Bank
funds were transferred to IPAB to help finance part of its debt-servicing needs arising from the
implementation of its bank resolution program, complementing other sources of funds available to
IPAB.

3.1.3. The Second Bank Restructuring Facility Loan (BRFLII) was designed to support the
Second Phase of the Bank Restructuring Program which included: (i) further reform of the
banking sector legal and regulatory framework; (ii) the resolution of the remaining banks under
the purview of IPAB; and (iii) further implementation of IPAB's program to sell assets from failed
banks. Under this second loan, Bank funds were also transferred to IPAB to help finance part of
its debt-servicing needs arising from the implementation of its bank resolution program,
complementing other sources of funds available to IPAB.

3.1.4. Specifically, the BRFLII supported the following reforms:

l Legal reforms to strengthen the banking sector: On April 28, 2001, Congress approved a
    comprehensive package of financial legal reforms. The most relevant legal reforms, from the
    point of view of this operation, are the following: Amendment to the Credit Institutions Law,
    which introduced, inter alia: (i) an early warning and prompt corrective action systems; (ii)
    new principles and rules of "corporate governance"; (iii) new norms for related credit; and (iv)
    new bank financial operations. Amendment to the Law to Regulate Financial Groups which
    introduced, inter alia: (i) definition of the concept of financial groups; and (ii) the principle of
    consolidated supervision.

l Regulatory reforms to improve risk management and governance in the banking sector:
    The program of regulatory reforms to be implemented by the Banking and Securities
    Commission (CNBV) during 2001-2002, included: (i) new rules for regulatory capital and



                                                   - 2 -

    portfolio classification and provisioning for development banks; (ii) new guidelines for internal
    controls and governance in commercial banking institutions; (iii) amendment of the rules
    applicable to external audit reports; (iv) new rules to regulate the risks of banking operations
    via Internet; (v) amendment of the rules for asset diversification; and (vi) amendment of the
    Credit Bureau rules.

l Resolution of the remaining banks under the purview of IPAB: The second stage of
    IPAB's bank restructuring program involved the following bank transactions: (i) sale of
    Bancrecer; (ii) sale of Atlantico; (iii) resolution through sale or closure of seven intervened
    banks in which IPAB had equity participation: Union, Cremi, Oriente, Obrero, Interestatal,
    Capital and Pronorte; and agreement between IPAB and the CNBV on a plan of action to sell
    or liquidate three other intervened banks in which IPAB did not have equity participation.

l Implementation of IPAB's Asset Disposal Program: The second stage of IPAB's asset
    disposal program established a timetable for outsourcing the sale of loans and other assets
    purchased from banks to specialized asset management companies.

3.1.5. The BRFLII incorporated appropriate development objectives. Completing the resolution
of the pending troubled banks was necessary to create a well-functioning financial system. Banks
that remained under government control relied on substantial government assistance, without truly
operating as banks. In particular, the seven banks intervened by the CNBV continued to operate
in the interbank market accumulating more debt to the Government, even if they had ceased to
lend. Also, by focusing on additional legal and regulatory reforms to strengthen governance in the
banking sector, the loan contributed to improve bank performance and strengthen their capability
to withstand future crisis.

3.1.6. As its predecessor, the BRFLII was designed to support the Government's Bank
Restructuring Program, which included several acquisitions and mergers of large troubled banks
and the closure of several small failed ones. The Bank Restructuring Program was an effort to
make the best of a difficult situation aggravated by the failure of the earlier bank resolution
attempt through the Trust Fund for the Protection of Bank Savings (FOBAPROA - Fondo
Bancario de Protección al Ahorro) scheme, under which the Government had assumed too many
obligations at too high a price, postponing, but not resolving, the failed banks from a financial
point of view.

3.1.7. A well-crafted feature of the BRFLII and of its predecessor,            was that the Bank's
assistance was transaction based, meaning that the disbursement of funds occurred only after
appropriate restructuring transactions had been worked out. The Government and the Bank
agreed for both loans on a set of eligibility criteria for transactions and a pool of funds was set
aside to support transactions that met those criteria.    In both cases, IPAB used the proceeds of
the Bank loan to service its "performing" notes (notes that paid in cash at least the real component
of the interest rate) issued to help capitalize the banks involved in those transactions and/or
improve the quality of the bank's assets by replacing the old FOBAPROA notes that were "non-
performing".    By specifying only eligibility criteria, rather than identifying the transactions
themselves, the BRFLII had an inherent flexibility that contributed to its success.



                                                 - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The loan objective remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
The BRFLII was designed as a three tranche loan to support the second stage of the
Government's bank restructuring program.          The first tranche was to be awarded upon
effectiveness of the loan.       Two floating tranches were linked to agreed bank resolution
transactions. Based on the Bank's assessment that all the conditions under the Loan Agreement
had been met, release of a first tranche of US$150 million was approved on February 22, 2002.
Release of the second floating tranche of US$175 million was approved on March 24, 2003 and
the   third    tranche  of    US$175    million   was   approved   on   November      26,  2003.

3.4 Revised Components:
The loan components remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The operation was not rated for Quality at Entry. However, it can be said that both adjustment
loans, the BRFLI and the BRFLII, were timely operations that came in the aftermath of a major
crisis that had left a number of failed banks in Government hands and still operating at great
losses. The Bank involvement in the resolution of the failed banks came at a time in which there
was wide recognition of the failure of the previous FOBAPROA resolution scheme and a political
consensus had emerged for the need to resolve the situation of the troubled banks and face past
losses, no matter how large they might be.        Quality at entry was further enhanced by the
knowledge accumulated by the Bank about Mexico's banking sector and policy framework,
through economic and sector work carried out since the banking crisis, and the Bank's experience
on banking sector reforms in other countries.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 This loan has achieved its objective of supporting the second stage of Mexico's Bank
Restructuring Program aimed at bringing about a better functioning banking sector, able to
withstand external shocks and to resume prudent lending to the private sector. All policy reform
measures supported by this loan were implemented within the expected time frame.             The
achievement of objectives is rated as satisfactory because the reforms have strengthened the
banking sector by advancing the regulatory reform initiated under the previous operation and by
completing the resolution of the banks that failed or were weakened during the 1994/1995 crisis.
Under the Program, large foreign banks have bought over 80 percent of Mexico's private sector
banking assets. These banks are now well capitalized and operate under strong banking rules.

4.1.2 To understand the extent to which this loan has achieved its objectives, it is important to
look at the situation of the financial sector after the 1994/1995 crisis and the Government's
strategy for restructuring the financial sector and avoid the repetition of a banking crisis.
Between mid-December 1994 and the end of the first quarter of 1995, Mexico's banking system
suffered a major systemic, solvency and liquidity crisis, triggered by the massive (100%)
devaluation of the peso. The banking system prior to the crisis was characterized by: (i) poorly



                                                - 4 -

managed and weak banks which went into a lending spree; (ii) poor accounting practices and
disclosure; (iii) a weak regulatory and supervisory environment that made it very difficult to know
the true financial conditions of the banks; (iv) an implicit Government deposit guarantee that
contributed to moral hazard by bank shareholders, managers and depositors; and (v) weak legal
and judicial frameworks in which debtors could default on their loans with little consequences.

4.1.3. To avoid a financial meltdown, towards the end of 1994, the Government responded with
a number of measures that included: (a) partial reform of banking regulation and supervision; (b)
support programs for the banks and their borrowers through the FOBAPROA; and (c) the
reaffirmation of the universal guarantee on bank liabilities (including inter-bank deposits, but
excluding subordinated debts).        Under its Capitalization and Loan Purchase Program,
FOBAPROA issued notes to purchase the impaired assets of many banks to improve their balance
sheet.   These notes were non-negotiable, to be redeemed in ten years, with interest being
capitalized periodically, but payable at maturity. The lack of liquidity of these notes increased the
large share of non-performing assets in the banks' balance sheets. This led to negative cash flow
in some banks which had to be covered by borrowing short-term in the inter-bank market at
relatively high interest rates. The programs implemented through FOBAPROA were successful in
preventing widespread contagion and a systemic crisis. However, given the absence of a legal
framework within which to allocate losses, the objective was often to minimize the immediate
monetary impact of the measures taken and the immediate fiscal cost of the programs, with no
actual financial resolution of the failed banks, given that the "solutions" amounted largely to
accounting entries with limited or no cash-flow impact on the banks.

4.1.4. To restore and promote banking sector stability and soundness after the 1994-1995 crisis,
the Mexican Government initiated, in late 1999, a program of banking sector reforms to
strengthen prudential regulations and address legal obstacles for the resolution of troubled banks.
The Government program involved four dimensions: (i) the reform of the legal framework to
improve incentives and strengthen the financial sector; (ii) the adoption of a comprehensive
program of regulatory reforms to improve banks' capitalization and governance, including the
extension of banking regulation to public banks; and (iii) the implementation of a program of bank
capitalization/resolution, as well as a program for the disposal of the assets of the failed banks.
This strategy has been successfully implemented in two stages; the first stage was supported by
the BRFLI, and the second stage was supported by the BRFLII.

A. Legal and Regulatory Reforms to Strengthen the Banking Sector

4.1.5. Under the BRFLI, Mexican authorities adopted a number of legal reforms to improve
incentives in the banking sector. These include the following: (i) Introduction of a limited
deposit insurance coverage. The Law for the Protection of Bank Assets, approved in December
1998, provides for a gradual dismantling of the universal deposit insurance scheme, replacing it
with a Deposit Guarantee Fund, with limited coverage, to be handled by the Institute for the
Protection of Bank Assets (IPAB). The coverage (by categories or activities) of the deposit
insurance was to decrease in stages, according to a timetable announced on May 31, 1999. By
the end of January 2003, the guarantee no longer covered inter-bank deposits, and by January 1,
2005 it will only cover deposit liabilities up to a limit of 400,000 UDIs (about US$100,000) per



                                                - 5 -

depositor, still a significantly high level of coverage by regional standards and by GDP per capita;
(ii) Creation of IPAB as a Bank Resolution Agency. IPAB was created with the legal powers to
address the pending issues that had prevented the full resolution of the problems of Mexico's
banking system, make explicit the cost of the banking resolution, and reach a permanent solution
to the banking problems in a transparent way; (iii) Regulatory reforms to improve banks'
capitalization and soundness that included changes in the definition of regulatory capital, new
classification and provisioning rules, disclosure requirements, and improvement in accounting
principles and standards; and (iv) Improvements in contract enforcement and creditor rights
with the approval of a new Commercial Reorganization and Bankruptcy Act of April 27, 2000;
and of the Miscellany of Secured Lending of April 30, 2000. Once fully implemented, these major
legal reforms were expected to substantially help the banking sector resume the provision of real
credit to the private sector.

4.1.6. Under the BRFLII, the Mexican Government implemented the second stage of its financial
sector reform program. The main reforms in this stage included: (i) Amendment of the Credit
Institutions Law (April 2001), to incorporate features to improve corporate governance, delegate
greater supervisory responsibilities to external auditors, introduce an early warning and prompt
correction action system, introduce new norms for related credit, and allow for new types of
financial operations; (ii) Amendment of the Law to Regulate Financial Groups (April 2001)
giving the CNBV the capacity to regulate and supervise financial groups; (iii) approval of the
Credit Information Institutions Law (January 2002) that defines the conditions that rule the
activities of the Credit Bureaus; and (iv) issuance of new banking regulations: including on risk
management. Finally, on April 24, 2003, Congress approved a package of reforms aimed at
facilitating the recovery and repossession of guarantees used as collateral in loan contracts. It is
expected that this new legal framework will contribute to the resumption of credit growth by
providing banks with greater certainty about their legal ability to repossess guarantees.

4.1.7. With all these reforms, the financial sector legal and regulatory framework in Mexico now
meets international standards, although there are some areas for improvement. One area that
needs improvement is the bank resolution mechanism. The IPAB Law has helped the resolution
of the banks affected by the 1994/1995 crisis, but it is geared in favor of open-bank resolution,
which would become increasingly inconsistent with the planned reduction in the deposit
guarantee. The existing system lacks a well-defined process and mechanism for the closure,
resolution and liquidation of banks. There is the need to define legal and regulatory actions that
can refine the failure resolution process to permit very clear roles for all agencies involved: IPAB,
CNBV, the Secretariat of Public Credit (SHCP) and Bank of Mexico (BOM) and their respective
accountability, and to allow for the option of actual closure and liquidation of insolvent banks, as
an alternative to open bank assistance. There is also the need to strengthen the legal powers of
IPAB as a liquidator such as: the need to have "strong arm" powers (e.g. the ability to repudiate
contracts with appropriate compensation, power to avoid (and recover) fraudulent transfers, etc.;
and authority to administratively determine claims filed by non-guaranteed creditors.            Also,
IPAB's asset disposition tools need to be enhanced. In particular, the removal of some tax
obstacles that presently impact the purchasers of distressed assets on secondary market, should be
examined.     The effective implementation of the new legal and regulatory system also remains a
challenge. For example, the reforms to the Bankruptcy legislation should be accompanied with a



                                                  - 6 -

reform of Mexico's registries to convert to electronic form in order to improve efficiency and
safety of pledging commercial assets.

4.1.8. For the third tranche release, it is important to mention that the Borrower requested a
waiver for two out of the six actions (see section 3.1.4) of its Regulatory Reform Program,
namely: a) the issuance of new rules to regulate the risk of banking operations through the
Internet; and b) the amendment of the rules applicable to external audit reports. The waiver was
justified on the basis that the adjustment program objective on strengthening the legal and
regulatory reforms had been achieved with the issuance and amendment of the many other
important prudential regulations issued by the National Banking and Securities Commission
(CNBV) and the Ministry of Finance (SHCP) since Board approval.

B. IPAB's Bank Restructuring and Resolution Program

4.1.9. IPAB inherited the assets and liabilities from the failed FOBAPROA in late 1998. It was
later entrusted with the liquidation of the small banks intervened by the CNBV during the crisis,
which had ceased to operate as lending institutions, but continued operating in the interbank
market, increasing the Government liabilities. IPAB's bank restructuring and resolution program
got started under the previous BRFLI with the completion of three bank resolution transactions:
(i) the sale of Serfin, Mexico's third largest bank, to a Spanish consortium (BSCH) in May 2000;
(ii) the merger of Promex and Bancomer in August 2000; and (iii) the sale of Inverlat to Nova
Scotia in November 2000. To restructure and sell these banks, IPAB had to recapitalize them and
replace the FOBAPROA notes with cash or performing notes, that is notes that pay in cash at
least the real component of the interest rate. To finalize the resolution of these three banks, IPAB
issued performing notes for a total of about US$17 billion: MXP100 billion for Serfin, MXP24.3
billion for Promex and MXP46.5 billion for Inverlat. Outside IPAB's program, but very important
for the health of the financial sector, Bancomer, Mexico's largest bank, was sold to another
Spanish bank conglomerate (BBVA) resulting in a majority injection of grade capital.

4.1.10. Under the BRFLII, IPAB completed the restructuring and sale of two remaining large
banks under its control: Bancrecer and Atlantico; and revoked the banking licenses of seven banks
intervened by the CNBV during the 1994/1995 crisis and had received assistance from
FOBAPROA: Capital, Cremi, Interestatal, Obrero, Oriente, Pronorte and Union. In addition,
IPAB closed three other intervened banks: Anahuac, Industrial and Sureste. The sale of the two
large banks was done in compliance with the eligibility criteria detailed in the Loan's
Implementation Letter. These criteria refer, inter alia, to: (i) the adjustments to be made to the
banks' balance sheets prior to the sale; (ii) the recapitalization of the banks prior to sale; and (iii)
the qualification of the purchasing banks. Also, to complete each bank resolution transaction
(capitalization prior to sale or payment of liabilities prior to closure of each bank), IPAB issued
performing notes or cash for about US$18 billion, above the amount stipulated under the Loan
Agreement (US$13 billion). Thus, IPAB issued debt or cash in the following amounts for the
resolution transactions: MXP102.2 billion for Bancrecer; MXP49.8 billion for Atlantico; and
MXP35.0 billion for the intervened banks.

4.1.11. Sale of Bancrecer to Banorte: Bancrecer was the fifth largest bank in Mexico with total



                                                  - 7 -

assets of US$8.9 billion equivalent as of December 31, 2000. In November 1999, IPAB took
control of Bancrecer after writing off shareholders' equity. Immediately thereafter, IPAB took
over the management of the bank and an international investment bank was hired to evaluate and
analyze the resolution alternatives for Bancrecer: sale (as an ongoing concern or sale of branches)
or liquidation. The recommendation was to capitalize and sell the bank. IPAB capitalized
Bancrecer subscribing share equity in the amount of M$102.2 billion (US$10.5 billion). The
funds for IPAB's capitalization of Bancrecer came from a credit from BOM, for the same amount.
After the capitalization and restructuring of Bancrecer was completed, the bank had a clean
balance sheet and the most advanced technological platform of any bank in Mexico.                The
non-performing loans and repossessed assets, along with some cash, were transferred to an
independent asset recovery company fully owned by IPAB. IPAB issued a public offering for the
sale of Bancrecer on June 1, 2001. Although five banks showed interest in purchasing Bancrecer,
only two: Banorte and Grupo Financiero Scotiabank Inverlat requested registration and
information on the sale. The winner of the bidding was Banorte, with an offer of MXP1.65 billion
for the shares of Bancrecer. The sale/purchase contract between IPAB and Banorte was signed
on October 5, 2001. Bancrecer shares were transferred to Banorte in January 2002.

4.1.12. Sale of Atlantico to Bital. In December 1997, Banco del Atlántico and a larger bank,
Bital, signed a Letter of Intent for the restructuring and subsequent absorption of the former by
the latter. In March 1998, FOBAPROA injected MXP6.5 billion into Atlántico to capitalize it and
close the reserve gap, confirmed by the investment bank during the due diligence. The Letter of
Intent allowed Bital to request additional funds from the Government if it found that there were
missing assets or hidden liabilities. In response to a request by Bital for additional funds, IPAB
carried out an evaluation and auditing of Atlántico. The results of the special audit were used to
detail the terms and conditions of the restructuring of Atlántico and its absorption by Bital. On
October 1, 2002, IPAB paid MXP49,857 million to complete the restructuring of Atlántico. The
funds for the restructuring of Atlántico came from a credit from Bital in the amount of
MXP47,357 million and IPAB's own resources in the amount of MXP2,500 million. Also on
October 1, 2002, Atlántico transferred its assets and liabilities to Bital, concluding the absorption
process.

4.1.13. Closure of seven intervened banks.        A strategy for the closure of these banks was
approved by IPAB's Board on May 9, 2001 (before Board presentation of the Loan) and
approved by the CNBV on June 19, 2001 (prior to Loan effectiveness). The main steps of the
Intervened Banks Resolution Program involved the following: (i) assumption by IPAB of the
liabilities of the intervened banks for MXP35.0 billion; and (ii) revocation of the banking licenses
of the seven banks. The licenses of all the intervened banks were revoked in October 2001.

C. IPAB's Program for the Disposal of Bank Assets

4.1.14. As of December 1999, IPAB's assets for sale amounted to a book value of MXP251.6
billion (US$26.32 billion), composed of loan portfolio (MXP215.4 billion); equity participations
(MXP19.4 billion) and real estate and other assets (MXP16.8 billion). IPAB's Law gives IPAB a
timetable to dispose of these assets: 5 years for banks under operation and 3 years for banks under
liquidation. IPAB has implemented its Asset Disposal Program through three modalities: direct



                                                 - 8 -

sales, administration contracts and rights transfers. This program has been fairly successful.

D. Long-term objective: Increased Access to Credit

4.1.15. The expected resumption of prudent lending to the private sector by the private banks
has, however, taken longer to materialize than originally expected. Bank credit to the private
sector in Mexico collapsed after the 1994/1995 crisis; falling from a peak of 38.6 percent of GDP
(including commercial and development banks) in December 1995 to only 12 percent of GDP in
September 2003. This is less than half the level in Brazil and far below the 70 percent in the
USA. During this period, non-bank credit, including external credit, has remained more or less
constant, decreasing from about 24 percent of GDP in 1995 to about 20 percent since end-1999.
Efforts in the last four years to revamp computer systems, train loan officers and improve the
quality of loan portfolios, may help increase lending during the rest of 2004.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Reform of the Banking Sector Legal Framework

l Approval by Congress, in April 2001, of an amendment to the Credit Institutions Law
   introducing, inter alia, the following reforms: (i) Early warning and prompt corrective action
   systems, providing the CNBV with the faculties to implement an early warning system to take
   preventive actions with respect to financial institutions that are experiencing financial
   problems, before the need of intervention arises; (ii) New principles and rules of "Corporate
   Governance", improving the standards of good corporate governance for banks, holding
   companies and bank subsidiaries; (iii) New norms for related credit, introducing more
   stringent rules for granting and monitoring loans to connected parties, which should be agreed
   on "arms-length" basis; smaller limits to connected lending, along with a wider definition of
   connected party; and information to be provided by banks on related credit; and (iv) New
   financial operations, allowing for new types of banking operations and new means to offer
   banking services, including derivatives, financial factoring and operations back-to-back. It
   also allows bank subsidiaries to issue subordinated obligations, which could be acquired by
   foreign investors.
l Approval by Congress, in April 2001, of an amendment to the Law to Regulate Financial
   Groups. The amendment introduced, inter alia, the following reforms: (i) Definition of the
   concept of financial group. The amendment introduces a new definition of the concept of
   financial group and grants the holding companies of a financial group the possibility of issuing
   liabilities different from subordinated obligations of forced conversion; and (ii) Consolidated
   supervision. The amendment gives the CNBV the capacity to issue capital adequacy and
   prudential regulation rules (limits on loans to a single borrower and to related parties, etc.) to
   be applied to the consolidated financial groups, including reporting and disclosure standards
   for financial groups.
l Approval of the Credit Information Institutions Law.           On January 15, 2002, a new law
   regulating the functioning of Credit Bureaus (Sociedades de Información Crediticia) was
   published in the Mexican Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación). The new law
   defines the conditions that rule the activities of the Credit Bureaus to give certainty and
   judicial security to the users of these Bureaus, establishing homogeneous criteria with respect
   to the interpretation and modification of the information contained in the reports that they


                                                 - 9 -

    issue. Among other things, the law gives the banks more freedom of action with respect to
    the use of the information of the credit reports.

B. Strengthening of Banking Regulation

l New guidelines for internal controls and governance in commercial banking institutions. In
     September 2001, the CNBV issued new regulations defining minimum standards of internal
     controls for banks' different operations.
l New rules for regulatory capital and portfolio classification and provisioning for
     development banks. In October 2000, the SHCP issued new norms for regulatory capital and
     for classification and provisioning of consumer and mortgage loans for development banks,
     similar to the rules that apply to commercial banks. In January 2002, the SHCP issued new
     norms for classification and provisioning of commercial credit portfolio of development
     banks.
l Amendment to the Rules for Credit Diversification. On March 20, 2003, the CNBV signed
     and sent for publication in the Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación) new rules
     for risk diversification in active and passive operations of credit institutions. The main
     changes of the new rules are the establishment of a clear definition of groups of common risk
     and a redefinition of the limits of counterpart risk exposure of the basic capital of the
     institutions.

C. IPAB's Bank Restructuring/Resolution Program

l IPAB issued notes worth MXP102.2 billion to support the capitalization and purchase of
     Bancrecer by Banorte in October 2001.
l IPAB issued notes worth MXP49.8 billion to support the capitalization and completion of the
     purchase of Atlantico by Bital in October 2002.
l IPAB issued notes worth MXP35.0 billion to assume the liabilities of the seven intervened
     banks and revoked their licenses in October 2001.

D. Sale/recovery of bank assets held by IPAB

l During 2001, IPAB sold eight packages of credit portfolios with a capital value of MXP15.6
     billion, resulting in a recuperation of 22.4 percent of their value. During 2002, IPAB sold
     four packages of credit portfolio with a capital value of MXP4.4 billion resulting in a
     recuperation of 13.9 percent of their value. During the first quarter of 2003, IPAB sold a
     credit package of low recovery from Bancrecer with a capital value of MXP4.5 billion for
     about MXP11.4 million. IPAB also recovered MXP13.8 billion and MXP1.6 billion in 2002
     and the first quarter of 2003, respectively, from the sale of real estate and other assets and
     from administrators under supervision.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA



                                                - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of both the BRFLI and the BRFLII has been substantial.
The legal reforms to improve banking sector incentives implemented under the BRFLI have
reduced moral hazard problems associated with the old universal system of deposit insurance and
improvements in contract enforcement should make it easier and cheaper for banks to lend to the
private sector. Also, measures taken with respect to measurement of capital, asset classification,
disclosure of financial information and corporate governance have strengthened CNBV's ability to
supervise banks and enforce regulations. The legal reforms implemented under the BRFLII further
strengthened the ability of CNBV to regulate and supervise financial groups and public banks.
Furthermore, the early warning and prompt correction action system allows CNBV to intervene at
the first signs of distress in a bank, when corrective actions can best be implemented. IPAB's
support for a number of bank restructuring transactions among Mexico's most important banks
has strengthened the capabilities of IPAB as a bank resolution agency and has resulted in more
capable ownership of the banks. Finally, IPAB's plan of residual assets disposal has generated an
active market in which auctions of assets have become a recurrent activity.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The policy reforms and the bank restructuring transactions supported by this operation were
implemented as envisaged. The implemented reforms resulted in a strong and stable banking
system that was able to weather the deceleration of the Mexican economy brought about by the
deceleration of the US economy.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. The successful implementation of the policy reforms and the bank restructuring
transactions supported by the BRFLI and BRFLII is due, to large extent, to the fact that the
Executive Branch and Congress were able to reach agreement on an ambitious program of
financial sector reforms, under two different administrations.         An important factor in this
successful meeting of the minds was the results of an audit of the FOBAPROA scheme, carried
out by a Canadian consultant by Congressional mandate, which clearly showed the failings of the
then prevailing legal and regulatory framework and the lack of effectiveness of the FOBAPROA
scheme.

5.2.2. IPAB's bank restructuring program has succeeded due, to large extent, to the
Government's decision to eliminate all legal restrictions to foreign ownership in the banking
sector. Under the previous legal framework, foreign investors were not permitted to hold more
than 20 percent of the shares of any bank that comprised more than 6 percent of the aggregate
capital of the Mexican banking system. All limitations to foreign ownership of banks were
removed as part of the December 1998 banking reform approved by Congress. Allowing full
foreign participation in bank ownership resulted in much-needed injections of capital and sound
management and know-how into the banking sector and substantial restructuring of the banks
themselves through mergers and acquisitions. The share of banking assets held by foreign banks
increased from 14.7 percent in December 1999 to 51.3 percent in December 2002 and 62.6
percent in December 2003 (excluding development banks' assets from the system's total assets,
this figure rises to 82 percent). Similarly, the share of bank deposits in foreign banks increased


                                                     - 11 -

from 19.6 percent to 56.8 percent during the same period.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. The strong technical capabilities and leadership of the CNBV, and the collaboration of the
CNBV with other Government agencies involved in banking regulation (IPAB, BOM and SHCP),
was crucial for the successful implementation of the financial sector legal and regulatory reforms.
The continued success in implementing these reforms will depend on the willingness of the CNBV
to enforce the strengthened regulatory framework.

5.3.2. The success in resolving the situation of the banks affected by the 1994/1995 crisis was, to
large extent, the result of the capable management and the quality of the professional staff of both
IPAB and CNBV. In particular, IPAB, which was a new agency during the implementation of the
BRFLI, had from the beginning a very capable management that was able to incorporate a number
of young, highly skilled professionals to its staff. In addition, IPAB's Charter dictates that it must
report to Congress periodically and submit to Congressional audits. This oversight has brought
much transparency and independence in IPAB's operations. An example of this transparency is
that all of IPAB's activities are regularly posted on its website.

5.4 Costs and financing:
N.A.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. The reforms undertaken under both the BRFLI and the BRFLII are likely to be sustainable
and not be overturned. The legal and regulatory reforms implemented under both loans are very
important to support Mexico's growing participation in the global economy (Mexico is an OECD
member) and could not be replaced without causing great damage to the banking sector and the
rest of the economy. Also, increased participation of foreign banks in Mexico's banking system, a
source of stability and good governance, is likely to remain. This has been recently demonstrated
by the acquisition by BBVA (February 2004) of the remaining 40.6 percent stake it did not
already own in Bancomer, involving an investment of about US$4.1 billion, the second largest in
Mexico after the Citigroup's purchase of Banamex for US$12.5 billion.

6.1.2. The long-term goal of both loans of fostering a banking sector better able to lend to the
private sector, opening access to groups and enterprises today largely excluded from bank
financing (micro, rural and SME financing) has not yet materialized. The Government is very
concerned about this situation and is contemplating additional measures to encourage bank
lending to deserving SMEs. These measures include relaxing some requirements for lending to
smaller companies which may lack the extensive financial documents that are required of larger
borrowers, and creating a database of SMEs that might qualify for credit to help banks identify
new customers. The banks have indicated that credit to the private sector will rebound in 2004 as
the economy improves and efforts over the past four years to improve loan portfolios, adopt
management information systems and train loan officers, will bear fruit.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
NA



                                                    - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance was satisfactory. This was a follow up loan to the BRFLI and,
therefore, most of the issues had been identified during the preparation of the first loan.
Nevertheless, Bank staff devoted substantial attention to the specific bank resolution transactions
supported by this loan and to further the policy dialogue with the authorities.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision was also satisfactory.            Prior to each tranche
disbursement, the staff carried out an in-depth review of the evidence of compliance with tranche
conditions. As in the previous loan, staff gave particular attention to the review of all completed
bank resolution transactions to ensure compliance with agreed eligibility criteria and loan
covenants.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during identification and appraisal was satisfactory. The main bank
resolution transactions to be supported by this loan had been identified during preparation of the
BRFLI. The closure of the small banks intervened by the CNBV was challenging because it
required the collaboration of the Government agencies involved. First, a mechanism had to be
established to transfer the management of these banks from the CNBV to IPAB. Second, since
Mexico had little prior experience in closing banks, a mechanism had to be established for the
revocation of their banking licenses by the SHCP. All three agencies collaborated in the closure
of these banks.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower has fully complied with the provisions of the loan, within the expected time frame.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The two main Government agencies involved in implementing the policy measures supported by
this operation were CNBV and IPAB. The performance of both agencies was satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The lessons learned during the design and implementation of this loan are the following:

l Start with a thorough diagnosis of the situation. Financial sector adjustment operations need
    to be based on prior economic and sector work. This operation benefited from the diagnosis
    carried out during preparation of the BRFLI and the results of the FSAP carried out by the
    Bank and the IMF of the financial sector in Mexico.



                                               - 13 -

l Set limited objectives. Financial sector adjustment operations should set limited objectives.
    Over-ambitious objectives such as the restoration of the solvency and soundness of the
    banking system are long-term goals that go beyond a single operation. It is more realistic to
    support a program of reforms with a programmatic operation or with a number of sequential
    operations that can be approved based on the success of the previous ones.

l Disburse against specific transactions. Bank restructuring operations should disburse against
    the completed resolution of specific bank cases, not against the promise of future actions
    which may not materialize. However, the operations should not specify the transactions it will
    support ex-ante, but rather should develop criteria that determine which transactions are
    eligible for financial support, to allow for flexibility in the operation.

l Ensure that the main implementing agency is the main recipient of the Bank resources. Bank
    funds should benefit the main agency in charge of implementing the policy reforms, to
    strengthen the incentives of these agencies to work in close collaboration with the Bank.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments by IPAB, the main implementing agency, are presented in Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

BRFLI - Report and Recommendation of the President on a Proposed Bank Restructuring
Facility Adjustment Loan in the Amount of US$505.06 milllion for Nacional Financiera.
November 29, 1999. Report No. P7347-ME

BRFLI - Implementation Completion Report, 12/21/2001. Report No. 23337

BRFLII - Report and Recommendation of the President on a Proposed Second Bank
Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan in the Amount of US$505.06 million for Nacional
Financiera. May 25, 2001. Report No. P7452-ME




                                                  - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                         1
           Indicator/Matrix          Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION




Output Indicators:
                                                         1
           Indicator/Matrix          Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION




1End of project




                                           - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN ADJUSTMENT OPERATION




                                               - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN ADJUSTMENT LOAN.




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               August 2000               1     Team Leader/Lead Ops. Officer
               January 2001              1     Team Leader/Lead Ops. Officer
                                         1     Sector Manager
                                         1     Bank Supervisor
                                         1     Financial Sector Specialist
                                         1     Consultant, Banking Specialist




 Appraisal/Negotiation
               April 2001                1     Team Leader/Lead Ops.
                                               Officer
                                         1     Bank Supervisor
                                         1     Lawyer



 Supervision
               April 2002                 1    Team Leader/Lead Ops.
                                               Officer
                                          1    Regional Financial Sector
                                               Advisor
               September 2002             1    Regional Financial Sector
                                               Advisor
                                          1    Consultant, Bank Supervisor

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              18.73                           93.59
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    8.02                           40.11
  Supervision                             14.05                            62.0
  ICR                                        4.5                           12.9
  Total                                    45.3                           208.6




                                               - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

President's Report no. P7347-ME, First Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan, November
29, 1999.
President's Report no. P7452-ME, Second Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan, May
23, 2001.
Mexico Country Assistance Strategy, Report no. 28141-ME, March 18, 2004.
Mexico Country Assistance Strategy, Report no. 23849-ME, April 23, 2002.
Mexico Country Assistance Stategy Progress Report, Report no. 22147-ME, May 21, 2001.




                                            - 21 -

Additional Annex 8. Matrix of Policy Actions

                                             MEXICO
  PROPOSED SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
            MATRIX OF POLICY COMMITMENTS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE

        OBJECTIVES                ACTIONS TAKEN UNDER THE                   ACTIONS TAKEN UNDER THE
                                             FIRST BRFL                               SECOND BRFL

1. MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK

Maintenance of Supportive  §          Maintenance of sound                  § Maintenanceofsound
Macroeconomic Program        macroeconomic framework consistent with        macroeconomic policy framework
                             policy objectives and program described in     consistent with policy objectives and
                             Letter of Sector Policy                        program described in Letter of
                                                                            Sector Policy

2. REFORM OF LEGAL FRAMEWORK

Improve incentives in the    Introduction of limited deposit insurance      Measures taken prior to Board
financial sector             coverage. In 12/98, Congress passed new        Presentation:
                             legislation creating the Institute for the     ·    Approval by Congress in 04/01
                             Protection of Bank Savings (IPAB). The         of an amendment to the Credit
                             Law phases-in a limited deposit insurance      Institutions Law, introducing, inter
                             scheme to replace the existing universal       alia, the following:
                             insurance guarantee, between 06/99 and         ü Earlywarningandprompt
                             12/05 (with the elimination of coverage on     corrective action framework
                             inter-bank liabilities by 01/04)               ü Newprinciplesandrulesof
                             §        Elimination of restrictions to full   "Corporate Governance" to improve
                             participation of foreign investors in existing the practices of credit institutions,
                             Mexican banks                                  protect shareholders, and require the
                             §        Improvement in contract               banks to have independent board
                             enforcement and creditor rights: In 4/00       members and audit committees
                             Congress passed a Commercial                   ü Tighternormsforrelatedcredits
                             Reorganization and Bankruptcy law which        in terms of amounts and conditions
                             strengthens foreclosure procedures; and a      ü Newoperatingnormsallowing
                             Miscellany of Secured Lending which creates    for new types of banking operations
                             conditions for lending based on movable        and new means to offer banking
                             collateral.                                    services
                                                                            ü AbilityoftheCNBVtoshare
                                                                            information with foreign supervisors
                                                                            protected by bank secrecy provisions
                                                                            ·    Approval by Congress in 04/01
                                                                            of an amendment to the Law to
                                                                            Regulate Financial Groups,
                                                                            introducing, inter alia, the
                                                                            following:
                                                                            ü AbilityoftheCNBVtoissue
                                                                            prudential regulation that applies to
                                                                            the financial groups including
                                                                            capital requirements and inter group
                                                                            transactions.




                                                  - 22 -

3. STRENGTHENING OF BANKING REGULATION

To raise banking sector          In 09/99, the SHCP/CNBV announced a             Measures taken prior to Board
regulation towards international series of regulatory reforms to be introduced   Presentation:
standards to:                    gradually between 01/00 and 12/02. Within       ·    Issuance between 10/00 and
§        Improve the quality of  this program, regulations were issued in        01/01 of prudential norms for
banks' capital                   respect of:                                     regulatory capital and for
§        Enhance accounting      §        Changes in the definition of           classification and provisioning of
and disclosure standards         regulatory capital which includes: (i) limiting consumer and mortgage credits for
§        Eliminate unjustified   the weight of deferred taxes in Tier 1 capital; development banks equivalent to
forbearance                      (ii) defining the characteristics of the        those that apply to private banks
§        Improve loan            non-cumulative subordinated debentures that
classification and provisioning  could be counted as Tier 1 capital; (iii)       Measures to be taken prior to loan
rules                            deducting all equity investments in             effectiveness:
                                 non-traded, non-financial companies from        ·    Issuance by the CNBV of new
                                 capital; and (iv) substituting specific         prudential regulations in the
                                 provisions for general provisions in Tier 2     following areas:
                                 capital                                         ü Extensiontodevelopmentbanks
                                 §        Requirements to disclose the           of the classification and provisioning
                                 composition of regulatory capital               norms for commercial credits that
                                 §        Improvements in the definition of      apply to private banks
                                 risk weighted assets                            ü Establishmentofminimum
                                 §        New classification and provisioning    guidelines for internal controls in
                                 rules for credit card loans                     commercial banking institutions
                                 §        New criteria to grant regulatory
                                 forbearance and requirements to disclose        Second Tranche Actions
                                 instances of regulatory forbearance             ·    Evidence that the Regulatory
                                 §        Requirements to disclose "troubled"    Reform Program (which involves
                                 debt, financial information by business         the issuance of new or the
                                 segment and aggregate information on            amendment of existing prudential
                                 transactions with related parties               regulations by the CNBV or the
                                §         Improvement of accounting practices    SHCP (as the case may be, in
                                 towards international standards regarding       accordance with what is established
                                 market valuation of investments and             and defined in the Implementation
                                 derivatives                                     Letter) has been implemented on a
                                §         Introduction of accounting standards   consistent basis, in accordance with
                                 applicable to assets securitization and assets  its terms.
                                 transfers
                                §         New regulation for loan                Third Tranche Actions
                                 classification and loan loss provision for      ·    Evidence that the Regulatory
                                 mortgages                                       Reform Program1 has been
                                §         New regulation for loan                implemented on a consistent basis,
                                 classification and loan loss provision for      in accordance with its terms.
                                 commercial loans


4. RESTRUCTURING/RESOLUTION OF BANKS BY IPAB

To restructure, sell, merge or   The IPAB Law, approved in 12/98, enables        Measures taken prior to Board
liquidate banks under IPAB's     IPAB to assume the functions of a deposit       presentation:
bank restructuring program       insurance and resolution agency to: (i)         § OfficialassumptionbyIPAB,in
                                 manage the bank support programs and            12/00, of all the liabilities of two of
                                 accelerate the financial strengthening of       the banks intervened by the CNBV
                                 currently undercapitalized banks, and the       (Cremi and Union), representing the



                                                     - 23 -

sale or liquidation of intervened ones; and      bulk of the intervened banks'
(ii) sell the assets purchased by FOBAPROA       liabilities
from banks under previous bank support           § ApprovalbyIPABin05/01,of
programs within a time frame of up to 5          the Procedural Guidelines for the
years.                                           Liquidation of the Intervened
                                                 Banks (Mecanismo de Liquidación
Under the first stage of its Bank                de los Bancos Intervenidos) for the
Restructuring and Resolution Program, IPAB       Intervened Banks under liquidation
completed the following bank resolution          (Cremi, Union, Oriente, Obrero,
transactions:                                    Capital, Interestatal and Pronorte)
§          Sale of Serfin to BSCH: Sale          § Approvalin12/00ofthe2001
completed in 5/00                                Budget Law including a budgetary
§          Merger of Promex and Bancomer:        allocation to IPAB of MXP24.3
Merger completed in 8/00                         billion and allowing IPAB to
§          Sale of Inverlat to Nova Scotia: Sale continue refinancing its debt in the
of majority ownership (55%) of shares of         market
Inverlat to Nova Scotia completed in 11/00
                                                 Measures to be taken prior to loan
All these transactions were "Eligible Bank       effectiveness:
Resolution Transactions".2 Eligible Bank         § IPAB'sissuanceofapublic
Resolution Transactions means the sale or        offering (convocatoria) for the sale
liquidation of any banking institution in        of Bancrecer
IPAB's Bank Restructuring and Resolution
Program, carried out in accordance with the      Second-Tranche Actions
eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank. The   § ThatIPABhasissued"Eligible
bank transactions are: sale of Bancrecer; sale   Notes" or entered into "Eligible
or liquidation of Atlántico; revocation of the   Cash Transactions" in an aggregate
banking licenses of each of seven intervened     amount equal to at least US$3.0
banks: Cremi, Unión, Oriente; Obrero,            billion, in support of "Eligible Bank
Capital, Interestatal, and Pronorte; and         Resolution Transactions"
sale/liquidation of the three remaining          § Thatthe IntervenedBanks
intervened banks: Sureste, Industrial, and       Resolution Program4 (the program
Anáhuac under the BRFL. To complete              of actions for the resolution of the
these transactions, IPAB issued "Eligible        banking institutions intervened by
Notes".3 Eligible Notes means notes (            the CNBV, described in the
instrumentos de crédito) issued by IPAB for      Implementation Letter) is being
partial financing of an eligible bank            implemented on a consistent basis in
resolution transaction. These notes must pay     accordance with its terms
in cash at least the real component of the      § Thatbudgetarytransfersto
interest rate. Eligible Cash Transactions are    IPAB have been made in a timely
cash payments made by IPAB for partial           fashion so as to allow IPAB to
financing of an eligible bank resolution         discharge its responsibilities under
transaction and are considered in computing      the Program
the total amount of Eligible Notes for an
aggregate amount of MXP127 billion               Third-Tranche Actions
(US$12.7 billion equivalent) and paid in cash   § ThatIPABhasissued"Eligible
for MXP39.5 billion (US$4.1 billion              Notes" or entered into "Eligible
equivalent).                                     Cash Transactions" in an aggregate
                                                 amount equal to at least US$10.0
                                                 billion, in support of "Eligible Bank
In order to ensure the stabilization of IPAB's   Resolution Transactions"
debt in real terms, the 2000 Budget Law         § Thatthe IntervenedBanks
included a budgetary allocation of MXP35.0       Resolution Program has been




                      - 24 -

                                    billion to IPAB, and allowed IPAB to              implemented on a consistent basis in
                                    refinance its debt in the market. The             accordance with its terms
                                    budgetary transfers to IPAB during calendar       § Thatbudgetarytransfersto
                                    year 2000 were made in a timely fashion so        IPAB have been made in a timely
                                    as to allow IPAB to discharge its                 fashion so as to allow IPAB to
                                    responsibilities under the Program.               discharge its responsibilities under
                                                                                      the Program
                                                                                      § ApprovalbyCNBVandIPAB
                                                                                      of procedural guidelines for the
                                                                                      resolution of the remaining
                                                                                      intervened banks under CNBV's
                                                                                      control (Sureste; Industrial;
                                                                                      Anáhuac)

5. SALE/RECOVERY OF BANK ASSETS HELD BY IPAB

To recover the maximum              During 1999-2000, IPAB disposed of part of        Second Tranche Actions
amount from the bank assets         the assets in its portfolio through three         § ThatIPAB's AssetDisposal
under IPAB's purview, within        modalities: direct sales, administration          Program has been implemented on a
the time frame provided by the      contracts, and rights transfers, in accordance    consistent basis, in accordance with
IPAB Law                            with its Asset Recovery Program. The              its terms
                                    amounts recovered were: MXP9.8 billion
                                    from the sale of eight packages of credit         Third Tranche Actions
                                    portfolio, and MXP2.8 billion from the sale       ·    That IPAB's Asset Disposal
                                    of goods and real estate.                         Program has been implemented on a
                                                                                      consistent basis, in accordance with
                                                                                      its terms
1
 Regulatory Reform Program involves the issuance of new or the amendment of existing prudential regulations by
the CNBV or the SHCP (as the case may be) in accordance with what is established and defined in the
Implementation Letter.
2
 Eligible Bank Resolution Transactions means the sale or liquidation of any banking institution in IPAB's Bank
Restructuring and Resolution Program, carried out in accordance with the eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank.
The bank transactions are: sale of Bancrecer; sale or liquidation of Atlántico; revocation of the banking licenses of
each of seven intervened banks: Cremi, Unión, Oriente; Obrero, Capital, Interestatal, and Pronorte; and
sale/liquidation of the three remaining intervened banks: Sureste, Industrial, and Anáhuac).
3
 Eligible Notes means notes (instrumentos de crédito) issued by IPAB for partial financing of an eligible bank
resolution transaction. These notes must pay in cash at least the real component of the interest rate. Eligible Cash
Transactions are cash payments made by IPAB for partial financing of an eligible bank resolution transaction are
considered in computing the total amount of Eligible Notes.
4
 The Intervened Banks Resolution Program is the program of actions for the resolution of the banking institutions
intervened by the CNBV, described in the Implementation Letter.




                                                         - 25 -

Additional Annex 9. Comments from IPAB

                                      (original in Spanish)

                                               Instituto para la Protección al Ahorro Bancario

                                                                                      Junio, 2004


                    Reporte de instrumentación de la operación de crédito


 1.   Desde que inició operaciones el Instituto para la Protección al Ahorro Bancario
 (Instituto), cuyo origen se remonta a la publicación de la Ley de Protección al Ahorro Bancario
 en enero de 1999, ha enfrentado diversos retos relacionados con el establecimiento del seguro
 de depósito y con la conclusión de diversas operaciones de saneamiento financiero derivadas de
 la crisis financiera de 1995. A la fecha, el Instituto ha logrado avances sustantivos en la
 administración del seguro de depósito y en el refinanciamiento de sus obligaciones, lo que ha
 contribuido a generar confianza y estabilidad al sistema financiero nacional.

 Evaluación y cumplimiento de los objetivos del Segundo Préstamo de Reestructuración
 Bancaria (Programa)

 2.   El Segundo Préstamo de Reestructuración Bancaria presentó entre sus objetivos la
 conclusión del saneamiento y venta del Banco del Atlántico y la enajenación de las acciones
 representativas del capital social de Bancrecer, además de la definición de la estrategia para el
 cierre de los bancos intervenidos (Banca Cremi, Banco Unión, Banco Obrero, Banco de
 Oriente, Banco Capital, Banco Interestatal, y Banco Promotor del Norte).

 3.   En el caso de Banco del Atlántico, el 1 de octubre de 2002 se realizaron los actos
 corporativos para concluir su saneamiento. El proceso de venta de las acciones representativas
 del 100% del capital social de Bancrecer concluyó el 2 de enero de 2002, a través de la
 transferencia de las acciones a Banco Mercantil del Norte.

 4.   En materia de administración de los pasivos, el Instituto tiene como objetivos hacer frente
 a las obligaciones contractuales, mantener la deuda constante en términos reales con relación al
 Producto Interno Bruto y mejorar el perfil de vencimientos. El Instituto ha continuado la
 emisión y colocación de los Bonos de Protección al Ahorro Bancario con plazo a 3 y 5 años.

 Sustentabilidad del programa, desempeño del prestatario y actuación del banco

 5.   La facultad del Instituto para canjear o refinanciar su deuda, mediante la emisión de Bonos
 de Protección al Ahorro y la contratación de créditos con bancos comerciales, bancos de
 desarrollo y organismos internacionales, aunado a las disposiciones de los recursos
 presupuestarios, los ingresos por cuotas bancarias, y las recuperaciones han permitido ejercer
 un manejo adecuado de la deuda, mejorar el perfil de vencimientos y mantener el nivel de los


                                               - 26 -

pasivos dentro de una trayectoria sostenible. En este sentido, el crédito otorgado por el Banco
Mundial contribuyó al cumplimiento de dichos objetivos.

6.   El desempeño del Banco Mundial fue altamente satisfactorio, lo que permitió al Instituto
obtener los recursos de acuerdo con sus necesidades. Por otra parte, la eficiente operación de
los desembolsos, una vez que se cumplieron las condiciones estipuladas en el contrato,
proporcionó al Instituto certidumbre para la programación de las actividades de tesorería.

7.   La comunicación con los funcionarios del Banco Mundial fue constante y fluida, lo que
permitió el seguimiento y cumplimiento de las condiciones necesarias para proceder a los
desembolsos. El trabajo conjunto realizado por la Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, la
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público y Nacional Financiera, en su papel de Agente
Financiero, contribuyó al éxito de la operación mediante el cumplimiento de los objetivos del
programa.


Lecciones Aprendidas.

8.   El otorgamiento del Segundo Préstamo de Ajuste para la Reestructuración Bancaria
permitió al Instituto capitalizar la experiencia y el trabajo realizado durante el Primer Préstamo,
situación que se tradujo en el aprendizaje de las siguientes lecciones:

·    Las instituciones bancarias desempeñan un papel crucial en la asignación de recursos en
una economía de mercado. Una crisis bancaria puede ocurrir en cualquier momento, y sus
efectos pueden desestabilizar al sistema financiero en su conjunto. A este respecto, el Instituto
ha reconocido que es necesario desarrollar planes y programas de acción preestablecidos que
permitan hacer frente a las problemáticas bancarias de forma oportuna y al menor costo
posible. El Instituto reconoce que una eficiente administración del seguro de depósito recae en
tres actividades sustantivas: la constitución y administración del fondo, el monitoreo preventivo
de las instituciones bancarias y la aplicación oportuna de los procesos de resolución de
problemáticas bancarias.

·    La experiencia internacional muestra que los seguros de depósitos con cobertura ilimitada
reducen la disciplina que el mercado impone a los ahorradores y a los banqueros. En el caso de
México se adoptó un sistema de seguro de depósito explícito y limitado, y a partir de junio de
1999 se instrumentó una fase de transición gradual de la cobertura de obligaciones. Esta
reducción gradual propicia que las instituciones bancarias adopten una cultura prudencial del
riesgo, lo que a su vez contribuye a la disciplina y estabilidad del sistema bancario. En la etapa
final del proceso de transición, que dará inicio el 1 de enero 2005, el monto de cobertura será
igual al equivalente en pesos de 400 mil Unidades de Inversión por persona y por banco.

·    La experiencia que el Instituto ha acumulado en los últimos años en materia de liquidación
de instituciones y en el pago de obligaciones garantizadas, le ha permitido consolidarse como
administrador del seguro de depósito, proporcionando una mayor certidumbre a los
depositantes.




                                              - 27 -

·    La participación de diversos organismos en un mismo proyecto, en este caso de la
Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores y de la Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, es
factible en la medida de que se cuente con objetivos claramente establecidos y delimitados. El
proceso de análisis y de definición de objetivos y condiciones fue el elemento más importante
para el desempeño exitoso del programa.




                                           - 28 -

- 29 -

