Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7452-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADJUSTMENT
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.06 MILLION
FOR
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
May 23, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela - Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEXICO FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of May 2001)
8.98 Pesos = US$1.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOM         =      Bank of Mexico (Mexico's Central Bank)
BPAs        =      Savings Protection Bonds issued by IPAB
CAR         =      Capital Assets Ratio
CAS         =      Country Assistance Strategy
CETES       =      Treasury Certificates (Certificados de Tesorerna de la
Federaci6n)
CNBV        =      National Banking and Securities Commission
FOBAPROA =         Trust Fund for the Protection of Bank Savings
FSRL        =      Financial Sector Restructuring Loan
GAAP        =      Generally Accepted Accounting Practices
GDP         =      Gross Domestic Product
IDB         =      Inter-American Development Bank
IPAB        =      Bank Savings Protection Institute
IMF         =      International Monetary Fund
MERCOSUR =         Common Market of the Southern Cone
MXP         =      Mexican Peso
NAFIN              Nacional Financiera S. N. C. (a public bank)
NPLs        =      Non Performing Loans
PDL         =      Past Due Loans
PROCAPTE    =      Temporary Capitalization Program
RTC         =      Resolution Trust Corporation
TIIE        =      Interbank Equilibrium Interest Rate
UDI         =      Investment Units (Indexed)
SDR         =      Special Drawing Rights
SHCP        =      Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SMEs        =      Small and Medium Enterprises
Vice President           David de Ferranti
Country Director         Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director          Danny Leipziger
Task Manager             Mariluz Cortes



UNITED MEXICAN STATES
PROPOSED SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa2e No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ............................. iv
I. THE SETTING                                   .1
A.     Economic Context and Recent Developments               .1
B. Links to Poverty Reduction                         .3
II.    MEXICO'S BANK RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM                         .5
A.     The Government's Strategy for Bank Restructuring and Resolution  .     5
B.     Achievements and Impact of the First Stage of the Government's Bank
Restructuring Program                        .7
C.     The Second Stage of the Government's Bank Restructuring Program .13
D.     Future Financial Sector Reform Agenda .20
III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY IN THE BANKING SECTOR .                        20
A.     Bank Assistance Strategy in Banking Reform .20
B.     Bank Experience with Policy Based Lending in Mexico .22
C.     Coordination with Multilateral Institutions .23
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN .23
A.     Loan Objectives and Description .23
B.     Commitments under the Proposed Loan .27
C.     Disbursements, Records and Auditing .29
D. Impact, Benefits and Risks .30
V. RECOMMENDATION .32
Annexes
Annex I      Matrix of Policy Actions for Tranche Release .33
Annex II IPAB'S Finances .37
Annex III    Letter of Sector Development Policy .41
Annex IV     IPAB's Asset Disposal Program .49
Annex V      Economic Indicators .51
Annex VI     Status of Bank Group Operations .53
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of: Messrs/Mmes. Mariluz
Cortes (Task Manager); Fernando Montes-Negret (Sector Manager); Juan Ortiz, Luis Landa,
Marea de Loavza (LCSFP): and Teresa Genta-Fons (LEGLA).
iii






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          Nacional Financiera, S. N. C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:         The United Mexican States
Amount and         US$505.06 million (including capitalized front end fee of 1%).
Terms              Payable in 10 years, including 10 years of grace, at the standard
interest rate for US dollar fixed-spread loans, and bullet repayment
on June 15, 2011. Commitment charges of 0.85% of undisbursed
balances for the first four years and standard charges of 0.75%
thereafter.
Description:       The broader policy objective of this proposed loan is to assist the
Mexican Government to implement its Bank Restructuring
Program, aimed at bringing about a better functioning banking
sector, able to withstand external shocks and better able to lend to
the private sector, opening access to groups and enterprises today
largely excluded from bank financing (micro, rural and SME
financing).
The Bank supported the first phase of Mexico's Bank
Restructuring Program with a US$505.06 adjustment loan (BRFL)
approved in December 1999. The first phase of the Program
involved: (i) the reform of the legal framework to improve
incentives in the financial sector through the introduction of a
limited deposit insurance coverage and a major revamping of
bankruptcy and secured lending legislation to strengthen contract
enforcement and creditor rights; (ii) the adoption of a
comprehensive program of regulatory reforms to improve banks'
capitalization, soundness  and  transparency; and  (iii) the
capitalization and resolution programs of three large insolvent
banks under the purview of the Institute for the Protection of Bank
Savings (IPAB).
This proposed Second Bank Restructuring Facility Loan would
support the second phase of the Government's Bank Restructuring
Program, which involves: (a) additional legal and regulatory
reforms to strengthen governance in the banking sector, extend the
new capital and credit portfolio classification regulations to public
banks and provide an early warning system; and (b) the resolution
of the remaining banks under IPAB's purview, including: the (i)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



restructuring and sale or liquidation of Bancrecer, the fifth largest
bank in Mexico, and Atlantico; and (ii) liquidation of seven
smaller intervened banks. Bank funds would help finance part of
IPAB's debt-servicing needs arising from the implementation of its
bank resolution program, complementing other sources of funds
available to IPAB, such as: fiscal transfers, proceeds from asset
disposal/recovery; and fees from deposit insurance premia.
Benefits and Risks: The most important benefit of the proposed loan would be its
contribution to reducing the risks of a repeat of the 1994/1995
banking crisis. The financial sector legal and regulatory reform
supported by this loan would improve bank regulation and
supervision and increase transparency of the banking sector, which
would reduce the risk of another banking crisis. Just a small
reduction in the probability of such a crisis would imply high
expected gains in poverty, as indicated by the negative impact of
the previous crisis on poverty levels in Mexico. Another benefit of
this operation would be its contribution to establishing the
conditions for the resumption of bank lending, which has collapsed
in Mexico since the 1994/1995 crisis. The completion of IPAB's
bank restructuring/resolution program would help ensure banking
soundness by the time the full deposit insurance guarantee is
phased out. Strong and well capitalized banks would be in better
position to resume prudent lending to the private sector, with the
attendant beneficial effects on growth and employment.  The
reforms to be supported by the proposed loan are necessary but not
sufficient to achieve the Government's program broader
objectives. There are still critical pending issues for policy action
in the financial sector that would be supported by the Bank through
additional adjustment operations and advisory services.
There are several risks associated with this operation. One key risk
is that IPAB may be limited in its ability to refinance its debt and,
as a result, face increasing limitations in its capacity to capitalize
and sell, or unwind and liquidate, troubled banks. Up to now,
IPAB has not experienced any major difficulties in issuing
"performing notes" in connection to the first stage of its bank
resolution program. In fact, the demand for IPAB's notes during
the weekly auctions in 2000 has been, on average, more than 3
times the amounts offered. Also, IPAB's skilful management of its
liabilities has resulted in a reduction of its total liabilities in real
terms during 2000. There is also the risk that IPAB's large debt
issues associated with the bank capitalization/resolution process
could imply higher and more volatile interest rates than otherwise.
The experience during 2000 shows that this does not need to be the
case. In the longer run, there is a possibility that IPAB's debt
v



could be included as part of Government's debt. This would
significantly reduce the overall cost of the banking resolution
program. The risk that the remaining banks in IPAB's portfolio
may not be attractive to new or existing investors, due to their low
returns, may not be too high, as the successful sale/merger of the
first group of banks indicates. Moreover, the transactional nature
of the loan disbursements and the Bank's close monitoring of the
legal aspect of such transactions, would reduce the risk of such an
outcome for the proposed operation. Finally, there is the risk that
the remaining shortcomings of the bank resolution framework may
delay the liquidation of the intervened banks.  The Mexican
authorities have assured the Bank that the Secretariat of Finance
and Public Credit (SHCP) has the legal faculties to revoke the
banking licenses of these banks, once they have been retired from
the inter-bank market, and their accounts in the Central Bank have
been closed.
Schedule of
Disbursements:    The full amount of the loan is expected to be disbursed in calendar
year 2002 in three tranches: one tranche upon effectiveness and
two tranches linked to completed bank resolution transactions.
Closing Date:     December 31, 2003
Project ID Number: PE-P071323-LEN-BB
vi






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SECOND BANK
RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE UNITED
MEXICAN STATES
I.    THE SETTING
A.    Economic Context and Recent Developments
1.    After recovering from the peso crisis of 1994/1995, the Mexican economy has
experienced a period of rapid GDP growth: about 5% per year on average since 1996, and
6.9%  in 2000'.  A combination of factors have contributed to that remarkable
performance: fast growth in the United States (which accounts over 90% of Mexican
exports), sound domestic macroeconomic management, a carefully designed public
borrowing strategy, high oil prices (since 1999), and a smooth presidential transition.
While the economy grew rapidly, prices remained relatively stable as tight monetary
policy contained inflation, with annual inflation rates of 12.3% and 9.0% for 1999 and
2000. The external current account deficit has remained manageable at 3.0% and 3.1% of
GDP in 1999 and 2000. Total foreign debt of the public sector fell, as a proportion of
GDP, from 35% in 1995 to 15% in 2000. Markets have responded to Mexico's good
macroeconomic management and strong economic performance. The country's foreign
direct investment is now equivalent to three quarters of the balance of payments' current
account deficit, and sovereign bonds have one investment grade rating (with a second one
pending approval of a fiscal reform package being discussed in Congress). Also, Mexico
has become less vulnerable to external shocks, as evidenced by the little contagion of the
recent difficulties in Argentina and Turkey.
2.    Despite this extraordinary economic performance, Mexico remains vulnerable in
several areas. One area of vulnerability is the close synchronization of the business
cycles of the US and Mexico, as a result of NAFTA. A US economic slowdown would
reduce demand from Mexican goods and lead to lower oil prices. At this stage, official
estimates are that Mexico's rate of growth will be about 3% in 2001, with a likely
inflation rate of about 7%, still a respectable rate, although less than half the growth rate
of 2000. Another area of vulnerability is the fiscal front. Although the fiscal deficit at
year-end 2000 was 1.1% of GDP, only slightly over the 1% target, it would have reached
close to 4% of GDP had it included off-balance sheet items, such as the cost of the bank
restructuring, the private-sector-financed public investments in energy, and the public
pension systems. To reduce the risk of larger fiscal deficits, the current administration
sent to Congress, in early April, a fiscal reform package aimed at increasing tax revenues
by about 4 percentage points of GDP (currently taxes account for only 11% of GDP, a
I This section is based on the analysis of Mexico's economic performance presented in the CAS Progress
Report No. 22147 - ME.



fraction of what other OECD countries collect). Failure of the Mexican Congress to
approve the tax reform package may reverse, at least partially, the gains of reduced
vulnerability to contagion achieved in recent years. Mexico is also vulnerable to an
appreciation of the real effective exchange rate (which appreciated by 13% in 2000), and
to a deterioration of the non-oil external current account balance (the non-oil external
current account deficit increased from 5% of GDP in 1999 to 6% of GDP in 2000).
3.    Another area of vulnerability is the absence of Mexico's financial institutions
from financial intermediation. Credit to the private sector by private banks has fallen
from over 30% of GDP before the 1994/1995 peso crisis, to less than 10% of GDP in
2000. Between June 1998 and June 1999, the outstanding credit to the private sector
dropped by 18.55% in real terms, bringing the level of lending to that of a decade before.
Mexico has been able to grow very fast despite negative growth of real credit, because
economic expansion has been largely supported by high oil prices and by the
extraordinary growth of the assembly-for-exports (maquiladora) industries since 1995.
This expansion has been possible mostly with external financing (this sector receives
about one third of total foreign direct investment that enters Mexico and has access to
supplier's credits and other external funding). During this time, credit relations across
firms have become significant, with large Mexican companies borrowing in international
markets and onlending to their suppliers. As the US economy slows down, future
economic growth is likely to depend more on the diversification of exports to other
countries and the growth of internal demand. Under these new conditions, Mexico's
economic growth will be increasingly dependent on the capacity of its financial sector to
provide the required funding.
Stock and How of Commercial Bank Credit to the Private Sector
(1 993-2000-in Millions of Real 1994 Pesos)
15 -                                                      7000 5
E  5                 ~~~~~    ~    ~   ~       ~~Stock  6/Fo  000 
.2  10                                             lo  
E  o t-                                                     35000 E
<) -10-                                      - 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4000 
-5 -    .                                                       0
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~20002
04 151 --                                                   0   r
A         0  oL                o     a 0         °   °
z                  l-  e C           oL  z    9  9
Source: Bank of Mexico Website. Mom = Month over month
4.    Starting in late 1998, the Zedillo government adopted a new strategy for
strengthening and restructuring the banking sector, with the broader objective of bringing
about a better functioning banking sector, able to withstand external shocks, and better
able to lend to the private sector, opening access to excluded groups such as rural and
2



micro-enterprises and small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The most important
elements of this strategy are: (i) the reform of the legal framework to improve incentives
in the financial sector through the introduction of a limited deposit insurance coverage
and a major revamping of bankruptcy and secured lending legislation to strengthen
contract enforcement and creditor rights; (ii) the adoption of a comprehensive program of
regulatory reforms to improve banks' capitalization, soundness and transparency; and (iii)
the creation of the Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings (IPAB), in charge of the
deposit insurance system and the financial support programs for the insolvent banks.
This strategy is now being furthered by the Fox administration, which submitted to
Congress a comprehensive financial reform package, approved in April 2001, involving
new legislation and amendments to the major financial laws, with the aim to increase
savings and strengthen financial intermediation, further improve the transparency and
accountability of the financial institutions, and create an environment that significantly
reduces the vulnerability of the financial system.
5.    The World Bank has provided financial and analytical support to the
Government's program of bank restructuring. The First Bank Restructuring Facility
Loan, approved in November 1999, supported the first stage of the Government's
program involving legal and regulatory reforms and the capitalization and resolution
programs of three large insolvent banks, under IPAB's purview. This proposed loan
would support the second stage of the Government's program, which involves additional
legal and regulatory reforms, and the completion of IPAB's divestiture program.
B. Links to Poverty Reduction
6.    The Government's Bank Restructuring Program will have a bearing on poverty
reduction by: increasing long-term growth; enhancing preparedness for, and reducing the
probability of, another financial crisis; and, in the longer run, by broadening access to
financial services, particularly to SMEs. Since the reforms supported by the BRFL and
this proposed loan are important steps in implementing the Government's bank
restructuring program, they would also contribute to poverty reduction. These links are
discussed below:
7. -  Improving Mexico's financial system depth will help sustain long-term growth
and reduce poverty. There is strong evidence of a causal link between financial depth
and soundness and economic growth. Different measures of financial development, at a
point in time, help predict subsequent economic growth, even after account is taken of
other determinants of growth2. In turn, the international experience clearly shows a
positive effect of growth on poverty reduction. A recent study (Dollar and Kraay, 2000)
suggests that growth in per capita GDP would rise almost one-for-one the income of the
2 A review of evidence on the contribution of financial system development and growth is presented in
Caprio and Honohan (2000).
3



poor3. Similarly, a Bank study4 of the links between growth, poverty and inequality in
Mexico, concluded that growth does reduce poverty in Mexico, despite the rising
inequality observed over time.
8.    The Government's Bank Restructuring Program     involves completing the
resolution of the insolvent banks affected by the 1994/1995 banking crisis. Strong and
solvent banks would enhance the capacity of the financial sector to perform its functions
of mobilizing savings and allocating capital to productive activities, at a time in which
availability of financial services may become a major determinant of economic growth.
Sustained economic growth, in turn, should help reduce poverty in Mexico. The
restructuring of the failed banks by IPAB involves the use of cash and/or performing
notes (i.e. notes that pay in cash at least the real interest rate), which would help reduce
the liquidity constraints faced by these banks, eliminate the pressure these banks are
putting on interest rates in the inter-bank market, and eliminate the uncertainty resulting
from the insolvency problems of major banks in operation. By helping close the chapter
on resolving the sick banks left over by the crisis, the proposed loan would help create
conditions for the eventual resumption of prudent bank credit, which would help sustain
growth.
9.    Broadening access to financial services to under-served sectors of the
population will help reduce unemployment and poverty. Shallow domestic financial
markets have magnified credit and output slowdowns in Brazil and Argentina, with
particularly adverse impact on small and medium enterprises, which are the first ones to
be cut off from access to credit. This has resulted in an increase in unemployment and in
a swelling in the ranks of the poor. The banking sector restructuring program in Mexico
involves not only the resolution of the insolvent banks, but also improvements in credit
contract enforcement (including collateral use and repossession and bankruptcy
procedures) and in debtor information systems. The measures implemented up to now
are a necessary but not sufficient condition to expand credit.   The efficient
implementation of the enacted legislation has some practical institutional aspects that
need to be strengthened (see para. 23). Nevertheless, once completed, these reforms
should make, over time, the supply of credit larger, cheaper and more accessible to micro
and SMEs, and to low-income households. This is likely to have a significant impact in
reducing poverty in a country where 92% of the manufacturing enterprises are micro-
enterprises with up to 5 employees; and 21.9 million people, about 55% of the
economically active population, are employed in enterprises with 5 workers or less.
3Dollar, David and Kraay Aart, "Growth is Good for the Poor", the World Bank, 2000. The positive
impact of growth on poverty reduction is supported by extensive research, including Gallup, John
Luke; Radelet, Steven; and Warner Andrew, "'Economic Growth and the Income of the Poor", Harvard
Institute for International Development, November 1998; Roemer, Michael and Gugerty, Mary Kay,
"Does Economic Growth Reduce Poverty?", Harvard Institute for International Development, March
1997.
FY99 Mexico Poverty Assessment: Concept paper background note No.2, September 28, 1998.
4



10.   Reducing the risk of another financial crisis in Mexico will imply big gains in
poverty reduction.  The Government's Banking Resolution Program   involves the
strengthening of financial laws and prudential regulations, with the objective of reducing
the risk of a repeat of the 1994/1995 banking crisis. Recent experience shows that
financial crisis entail huge fiscal costs that crowd out social spending, with dramatic
effects on poverty increases. The fiscal cost of the 1999 banking crisis in Indonesia
amounted to 50% of GDP5. The Brazil crisis of 1994 had a fiscal cost of about 13% of
GDP. To face these costs, governments must adjust other expenditures, generally social
expenditures and other investments, which comprise a large share of the budget, with
devastating effects on the levels of poverty6 and future rates of growth and
competitiveness. The Mexican banking crisis of 1994/1995 has left a debt to the
Government, not yet fully realized, of about US$100 billion, about 20% of GDP. The
Mexican government must dedicate about 1% of GDP per year, or close to 10% of
Government revenues, just to keep this cost constant in real terms, through budgetary
transfers to IPAB. This reduces the possibility of using these funds for social programs.
The banking crisis in Mexico erased a decade of gains in poverty reduction. Between
1984 and 1994, the percentage of people living below the poverty line in Mexico had
decreased from 61.5% to 50.9%. Soon after the crisis, in 1996, that percentage had
increased again to 61.9%7, although it has decreased somewhat since then. A reduction in
the risk of another banking crisis would, therefore, have a significant payoff in terms of
both avoiding the increase in the ranks of the poor caused by the crisis and in liberating
public funds for use in poverty reduction programs.
II. MEXICO'S BANK RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
A. The Government's Strategy for Bank Restructuring and Resolution
11.   The 1994-95 banking crisis. Between mid-December 1994 and the end of the
first quarter of 1995, Mexico's banking system suffered a major systemic, solvency and
liquidity crisis, triggered by the massive (100%) devaluation of the peso. The banking
system prior to the crisis was characterized by: (i) poorly managed and weak banks which
went into a lending spree; (ii) poor accounting practices and disclosure; (iii) weak
regulatory and supervisory environment that made it very difficult to know the true
financial conditions of the banks; (iv) an implicit Government deposit guarantee that
contributed to moral hazard by bank shareholders, managers and depositors; and (v) weak
legal and judicial frameworks in which debtors could default on their loans with little
consequences.
5See the World Bank, Finance for Growth. December 20, 2000.
6 The 1982-82 Brazilian debt crisis caused incomes of the poor to decline by as much as 33%, well above
the decline in average income. See De Ferranti, David and Perry Guillermo, Securing our Future in a
Global Economy, Chapter 5, p. 78.
7Estimates presented in the CAS Progress Report No. 22147 - ME, p.3. The consumption-based poverty
measures were computed using the ENIGH survey.
5



12.   To avoid a financial meltdown, towards the end of 1994, the Government
responded with a number of measures that included: (a) partial reform of banking
regulation and supervision; (b) support programs for the banks and their borrowers
through the Fondo de Proteccion al Ahorro Bancario (FOBAPROA); and (c) the
reaffirmation of the universal guarantee on bank liabilities (including inter-bank deposits,
but excluding subordinated debts). The programs implemented through FOBAPROA
included: (i) a Dollar Liquidity Program to provide banks with foreign currency
denominated loans to pay for foreign currency debts; (ii) a Temporary Capitalization
Program to provide capital to banks that due to the new provisioning rules were unable to
comply with the 8% capitalization requirement; (iii) a Capitalization and Loan Purchase
of Bank Portfolio Program, to capitalize banks which due to the deterioration of their
loan assets were unable to comply with the minimum capital rules; and (iv) Financial
Strengthening Programs which involved the transfer of control of the insolvent banks to
FOBAPROA. As of June 1999, the estimated net fiscal cost of the financial support
programs amounted to MXP873.1 billion, equivalent to 19.3% of GDP, three times as
large as Mexico's total internal debt. Only a relatively small part of the total cost,
MXP140.9 billion had been already covered by fiscal transfers between 1995 and 1999.
13.   The programs implemented through FOBAPROA were successful in preventing
widespread contagion and a systemic crisis. However, given the absence of a legal
framework within which to allocate losses, the objective was often to minimize the
immediate monetary impact of the measures taken and the immediate fiscal cost of the
programs, with no actual financial resolution of the failed banks, given that the
"solutions" amounted largely to accounting entries with limited or no cash-flow impact
on the banks.
14.   The Government's strategy for bank restructuring resolution. The Zedillo
administration adopted at the end of 1998 a new strategy for banking sector strengthening
and the restructuring/resolution of intervened banks. The most important elements of this
strategy are: (i) the reform of the legal framework to improve incentives in the financial
sector through the introduction of a limited deposit insurance coverage and a major
revamping of bankruptcy and secured lending legislation to strengthen contract
enforcement and creditor rights; (ii) the adoption of a comprehensive program of
regulatory reforms to improve banks' capitalization and soundness; and (iii) the creation
of IPAB, in charge of the deposit insurance system and the bank capitalization and
resolution programs for the insolvent banks. The new administration of President Fox,
which took office in December 2000, has furthered this strategy and submitted to
Congress a Financial Reform Package of critical financial legal and regulatory reforms,
which was mostly approved in April 2001. The objective of the new legislation is to
further enhance prudential regulation and supervision, and improve efficiency in financial
intermediation. As part of the Government's efforts to further address financial sector
issues, in March 2001, the Bank and the IMF launched the joint preparation of a Financial
Sector Assessment Paper (FSAP).
6



15.   Major advances have been made in implementing the Government's Bank
Restructuring Strategy and the process of achieving a healthy and adequately capitalized
banking system is now well under way. Major players in the banking sector have been
stabilized and returned to solvency, and foreign investment has entered the banking
system through merger and acquisitions of domestic institutions8. This has led to an
improvement in liquidity, solvency and portfolio quality indicators. There are signs that
credit conditions in Mexico are slowly improving, at least for consumer loans and
corporate and middle-market loans9.   Notwithstanding  these advances, sector
performance problems persist: domestic financial intermediation is still very low, capital
markets are not fully developed (especially longer-term instruments to mobilize savings),
and credit for SMEs remains relatively scarce.
B.    Achievements and Impact of the First Stage of the Government's Bank
Restructuring Program
16.   Legal reforms to improve incentives in the banking sector. The legal reforms
to improve incentives in the banking sector, and some of the refinements that need to be
introduced to fully implement these reforms are described below.
17.   Introduction of a limited deposit insurance coverage. The IPAB Law, approved
in December 1998, provides for a gradual dismantling of the universal deposit insurance
scheme, replacing it with a Deposit Guarantee Fund, with limited coverage, to be
handled by IPAB. The coverage (by categories or activities) of the deposit insurance will
decrease in stages, according to a timetable announced on May 31, 1999. By the end of
January 2003, the guarantee will no longer cover inter-bank deposits, and by January 1,
2005 it will only cover deposit liabilities up to a limit of 400,000 UDIs (about
US$100,000) per depositor, still a significantly high level of coverage by regional
standards and by GDP per capita. The elimination of the government guarantee on inter-
bank deposits will have a major impact in the banking system, because the banks
perceived as weak will be rationed out of the inter-bank market on which many banks
now depend, and/or will face higher financing costs. The elimination of this guarantee
will be a powerful incentive for banks to strengthen their solvency, liquidity, and
profitability conditions in the next two years, thus injecting an irreversible momentum to
the authorities' program of banking system restructuring and re-capitalization. As
coverage is reduced, IPAB's role as manager of the Deposit Guarantee Fund needs to be
examined. Areas to examine include: (i) an assessment of the exact structure and nature
of setting deposit insurance premia and the overall preferred approach. Currently, IPAB' s
Board lacks sufficient flexibility to establish risk-based premiums; (ii) specific rules to
define recognition of deposit ownership; and (iii) changes in bank information systems to
allow the authorities to determine the actual guaranteed deposit base in specific banks.
Some of the regulations concerning the application of the deposit guarantee coverage and
8 The percentage of bank assets under foreign control increased from about 24% in 1998 to about 50% in
2000.
9Salomon Smith Barney, web page, April 10, 2001
7



the disclosure of the new rules of the game of the depositor safety net can be issued by
IPAB without having to modify its Law.
18.   Creation of a Bank Resolution Agency. IPAB, was created in January 1999, with
the legal powers to address the pending issues that had prevented the full resolution of the
problems of Mexico's banking system, make explicit the cost of the banking resolution,
and reach a permanent solution to the banking problems in a transparent way. IPAB, a
decentralized agency of the Federal Government, has its own legal status, governing body
and equity. IPAB's Board is composed of an Executive Secretary and representatives of
the main agencies involved in the financial area: the Minister of Finance, the Governor of
the BOM, and the President of the CNBV, and four independent members designated by
the executive and approved by the Senate. As a resolution agency, LPAB is in charge of
managing the different bank support programs aimed at restoring the health of the
banking system, including the recovery or sale of residual assets inherited from
FOBAPROA or left in IPAB's hands as a result of bank resolution activities. With the
creation of IPAB, the cost of the banking crisis is, for the most part, no longer a
contingent liability for the Government. This cost has been appropriately reflected in
IPAB's balance, which is fully disclosed to the public.
19.   The IPAB Law has helped the resolution of the banks affected by the 1994/1995
crisis. However, this Law is geared in favor of open-bank resolution, which would
become increasingly inconsistent with the planned reduction in the deposit guarantee.
The existing system lacks a well-defined process and mechanism for the closure,
resolution and liquidation of banks. There is the need to define legal and regulatory
actions that can refine the failure resolution process to permit very clear roles for all
agencies involved (IPAB, CNBV, SHCP and BOM) and their respective accountability,
and to allow for the option of actual closure and liquidation of insolvent banks, as an
alternative to open bank assistance. There is also the need to strengthen the legal powers
of IPAB as a liquidator such as: the need to have "strong arm" powers (e.g. the ability to
repudiate contracts with appropriate compensation, power to avoid (and recover)
fraudulent transfers, etc.; and authority to administratively determine claims filed by non-
guaranteed creditors. Also, IPAB's asset disposition tools need to be enhanced. In
particular, the removal of some tax obstacles that presently impact the purchasers of
distressed assets on secondary market, should be examined.
20.   Improvements in contract enforcement and creditor rights.  The legal
framework of the financial sector improved considerably with the passage of the
Commercial Reorganization and Bankruptcy Act of April 27, 2000; and of the Miscellany
of Secured Lending of April 30, 2000. Once fully implemented, these major legal
reforms will substantially help the banking sector resume the provision of real credit to
the private sector which has been contracting since the start of the banking crisis of 1995.
These reforms will significantly broaden the access to bank credit to groups so far
excluded and might, eventually, contribute to lower credit risk and bank spreads. A
complementary reform to the other two major initiatives includes reforms to the
Commercial Code in order to modernize Mexico's registries to convert to electronic
8



form, improving the efficiency and safety for pledging (movable and non-movable)
commercial assets.
21.   The new Bankruptcy Law is an important improvement over the 1943 code. It
facilitates the recovery of assets, stops the abuses of debtors under the old system, and the
redeployment of corporate assets of failed firms. It establishes a three stages process for
declaring bankruptcy: (i) a verification phase in which the default on payments is
generalized and meets certain criteria defined in the law; (ii) an attempt to reach an
agreement between the debtor and its creditors, which, if unsuccessful, will lead into (iii)
a declaration of bankruptcy and the distribution of the assets of the firm among creditors
according to their seniority rights as the last resort. Company owners are no longer
allowed to request the declaration of suspension of payments indefinitely, a legal status
which in the past allowed them to remain at the head of a failed enterprise for years
without declaring bankruptcy, while stopping the service of their debts. Under the new
law, Federal judges will retain a central role in the process, but will be advised by
technical specialists on legal, financial, managerial and accounting matters. In addition, a
Federal Institute of Specialists on Reorganizations and Bankruptcies was established on
June 12, 2000, to support the process. There are also special provisions for cooperation
with the judicial systems of other countries. An important improvement in the law is that
it now incorporates the UNCITRAL Model Law on trans-border insolvency, which means
that parallel foreign insolvency proceeds may be recognized. New procedural rules are
being issued for the new bankruptcy legislation.
22.   Congress also passed new   legislation on secured transactions with some
amendments to the Commercial Code, the General Law on Negotiable Instruments and
Credit Transactions and the Credit Institutions Law. The new legislation introduces the
new principles of collateral without the transfer of ownership and the guarantee trust.
The first principle allows a person/firm seeking credit to pledge goods or future
production, derived from the loan as collateral, without their physical transfer to the
lender. This will reduce the need to pledge real estate or present a guarantor. The second
principle means that those seeking a loan can guarantee payment with inventories, goods
in production and other movable goods. In addition, the new legislation establishes two
new processes to execute the guarantees: one judicial and another extra-judicial, designed
to shorten the process of banks foreclosing on borrowers' collateral pledges or properties
when they default on a loan.
23.   These new laws are a significant step forward, but they have some shortcomings
that can hamper their implementation. First, the amendments introduce a so called "non-
recourse" clause on behalf of debtors. This clause specifies that in the event of default by
a debtor where collateral has been pledged and the collateral is sold, if the proceeds are
insufficient to cover the secured loan, the uncovered portion is deemed to be
"extinguished" and "discharged". Hence, the debtor may not be sued for the shortfall in
the value of the collateral and any additional security (other guarantees etc.) cannot be
enforced. Second, the amendments regulating the securities trusts and the stricter liability
standards for trustees and other bankruptcy professionals may increase trustee fees.
9



These features might have the unintended consequence of diminishing the use of security
trusts and potentially increasing the use of less secure arrangements. Third, doubts
remain as to how are secured lenders going to be separated from the bankruptcy process.
The efficient implementation of the legislation has some practical institutional aspects
including the need to issue complementary regulation, a modem registration system in
place to "perfect" such interests (i.e. assign pniority over possible competing claims on an
asset), and a quality commercial conflict resolution, including an improved judicial
system. Also, tne ongoing training program for judges and bankruptcy specialists should
be strengthened.
24.     Regulatory reform program to improve banks' capitalization and soundness.
In September 1999, the regulatory authorities announced a series of regulatory reforms to
change the definition of regulatory capital and require the disclosure of its composition;
limit the incorporation of differed taxes; improve the definition of risk weighted assets;
establish loan classifications and new provisioning rules based on repayment capacity;
improve accounting practices and standards; and improve disclosure. These new rules
represent a major step in strengthening the safety and soundness of the banking system.
The main regulatory reforns and the timetable for their implementation are described in
the table below.
Regulatory Reforms Implemented in the First Stage of the Bank Restructuring Program
New Rules       Norm      Issued/In effect         Rule Content                 Implementation
Definition of  SHCP         10/1999         New definition of Tier 1 and Tier 2  Some banks have already
regulatory    Resolution   01/2000 -        elements.                       adopted in full these rules.
capital                     12/2002         New capital instruments.
Substitution of specific provisions
by general provisions.
Limit of 20% for deferred taxes.
Deduction of equity investments
and intangible assets.
New weighing rules for off-balance
sheet items.
Credit        Circular      10/1999         Classification methodology based  Regulations have not entailed
portfolio      1449        01/2000          on the probability of non-      the necessity of additional
classification                             repayment.                       provisions, but they have
rules for                                   New provisioning rules.        resulted in the earmarking of
credit card                                                                 existing provisions to specific
loans                                                                       credits.
Credit        Circular     01/2000         Classification methodology based  Regulations have not entailed
portfolio      1460        06/2000          on repayment performance and    the necessity of additional
classification                              probability of default.         provisions, but they have
rules for                                   New provisioning rules.        resulted in the earmarking of
mortgages                                                                   existing provisions to specific
credits.
10



Credit        Circular     09/2000          Classification methodology
portfolio     1480         01/2001          entails comprehensive credit risk
classification                              analysis, including country risk,
rules for                                   for both the loan and the creditor.
commercial                                  Quarterly classification and
loans                                       provisioning of 80% of the credit
portfolio, including every
operation above certain amount,
based on the probability of
default.
The remaining 20% to be
classified and provisioned
according to the repayment
experience.
New rules for guarantees.
Disclosure of credit classification.
Risk categories increase from 5 to
7.
Accounting    Circular     10/1999          New accounting standards for   As of June 2000 the banks
and valuation  1448        01/2000          assets securitization and assets  had carried out valuations of
rules for                                  transfer. New and enhanced      their premises and adjusted
banks                                       valuation rules, according to  their capital accordingly.
international standards        Full implementation of new
valuation rules is likely to
take place in 2001, once the
appraisal of foreclosed assets
is completed.
Transparency  Circular     10/1999          Disclosure of components of    Some banks relinquished
and disclosure  1448                        regulatory capital starting   regulatory forbearance to
12/2000.                       prevent its disclosure in the
Disclosure of regulatory       12/2000 reports.
forbearance, including its impact
on the financial conditions,
Circular     10/2000          starting 12/2000.
1484
Refines some prudential
supervisory norms and hence
Circular                     improve financial information and
1488                          disclosure.
Regulatory    Circular     10/1999          Forbearance conditioned to the  The CNBV has allowed
forbearance   1448                          existence of a comprehensive   forbearance in special cases,
rehabilitation plan.           which have been
Mandatory disclosure, including  communicated to the banks
its effect in financial statements.  and disclosed to the banks,
the market and the CNBV.
Accounting    Circular     12/1999
and valuation  1456        01/2000
rules for
holding       Circular
companies     1489        1                                               1
25.    First Stage of IPAB's Bank Restructuring and Resolution Program. By Law, IPAB
has under its purview the banks that had been assisted by the old FOBAPROA. Also by Law,
IPAB assumed FOBAPROA's assets and liabilities (except for operations deemed as illegal by
11



Congress). Initially, there were four groups of banks in IPAB's program: (i) two large banks:
Serfin and Bancrecer; (ii) three banks under the restructuring program: Atlantico, Promex, and
Inverlat; (iii) ten intervened banks in the final stage of resolution/liquidation or sale; and (iv)
banks under private capitalization programs. The resolution of banks under the first three
categories generate liabilities for IPAB.
26.   As part of the first stage of its bank restructuring/resolution program, EPAB completed the
sale of Serfin and Inverlat to foreign banks, and the merger of Promex with another large
Mexican bank with foreign equity participation (Bancomer). Completion of these transactions
required the provision of cash or notes for about US$17 billion by IPAB to capitalize these banks
and to replace the old, non performing, FOBAPROA notes that they had previously received.
Bank Resolution Transactions Completed under the
First Stage of IPAB's Program
Bank Resolution    Buyer     Date of final  Notes Issued"    Comments
transaction  MXP billion
Serfin           BSCH         05/22/2000  100.0        IPAB fully amortized in
(Third largest   (Spanish)                             cash MXP33.4 billion
financial group)                                       before the sale
Promex           Bancomer     08/10/2000  24.3         Bancomer has been sold to
(Mexican                              a Spanish conglomerate
/Spanish)                             BBVA
Inverlat         Nova Scotia  11/30/2000  46.5         Shareholding: Nova
(eigth largest   (Canadian)                            Scotia: 55%; IPAB: 36%;
bank)                                                  others: 9%
Notes issued by IPAB to capitalize the banks prior to selling them and to replace the old FOBAPROA notes.
27.   IPAB's liabilities management. IPAB's total liabilities were estimated at MXP722.5
billion (about US$72 billion, or 14.3% of GDP) at end-December 199910. Most of this debt is
inherited from  FOBAPROA.    The viability of EPAB's program  of bank resolution is
interdependent with the management of IPAB's cash flow over time. On the one hand, a sound
process of resolution of banks under IPAB's purview requires the injection of cash or the
issuance of "performing" notes, i.e., notes that would not only accrue interest at a market rate,
but that would also provide a minimum of liquidity, by paying at least the real component of
interest in cash on a periodic basis, and by being tradable in the market or, if designed to be held
to maturity, by amortizing periodically. Similarly, the strengthening of banks currently under
private management (and hence not under IPAB's purview), whose balance sheets contain a
significant amount of old FOBAPROA notes, require a gradual swap of those old notes with
new, more liquid, shorter term IPAB notes. The need for IPAB to issue notes with market
conditions and minimal liquidity, however, would immediately burden IPAB's cash flow. On the
other hand, given the large size of IPAB's liabilities, the cash flow impact of the issuance of
more liquid notes, both to replace the illiquid old ones and to complete the resolution processes,
10 More information on IPAB's finances is presented in Annex II.
12



can only be absorbed gradually, in line with the constraints that IPAB faces in terms of its
income, the need to prevent an explosive path for IPAB's debt, the capacity to manage an orderly
placement of large amounts of new notes in the market, and the fiscal constraints for large,
annual, budgetary transfers to IPAB.
28.   IPAB has adopted an strategy of refinancing its debt to improve its maturity profile and
reduce its cost. This strategy involves: (i) weekly issues of Bonos de Proteccion al Ahorro
(BPAs)/, that are mainly used to service and pay the promissory notes previously issued by
FOBAPROA; (ii) long-term loans from financial institutions;12 (iii) bank sales and restructuring
of their liabilities; and (iv) refinancing and prepayment of most expensive obligations. The
effects of this strategy has been a reduction of 7.2% in real terms of IPAB's debt between
December 1999 and December 2000, reducing it from 14.3% to 11.2% of GDP. IPAB has also
been able to reduce the financial cost of its debt from an average of CETES + 1.30 to CETES +
1.14, although it is expected to move to CETES + 1.05, once there is an exchange of notes under
the "Capitalization and Exchange of Portfolio Progarm". The Bank loan has made a contribution
to improving the profile of IPAB's debt.
29.   IPABs Asset Disposal Program.     As of December 1999, IPAB's assets for sale
amounted to a book value of MXP251.6 billion (US$26.32 billion), composed of loan portfolio
(MXP 215.4 billion); equity participations (MXP19.4 billion) and real estate and other assets
(MXP16.8 billion). IPAB's Law gives IPAB a timetable to dispose of these assets: 5 years for
banks under operation and 3 years for banks under liquidation. During 2000, IPAB implemented
the first phase of its Asset Disposal Program through three modalities: direct sales,
administration contracts and rights transfers. Between the last quarter of 1999 and the end of
2000, IPAB auctioned eight packages of loan portfolio and recovered MXP9.8 billion. During
the same period, IPAB obtained MXP2.8 billion from the sale of goods and real estate. In
addition, as a result of the restructuring of several corporate loans done by commercial banks in
2000, IPAB obtained a recovery of MXP877.9 million.
C.    The Second Stage of the Government's Bank Restructuring Program          to be
Supported by this Loan
30.   Legal Reforms to Strengthen the Financial Sector. On April 28, 2001, Congress
approved most of the initiatives of a comprehensive financial reform package submitted by the
Fox administration13. This package involved eleven pieces of legislation, including amendments
to the major financial laws, and new bills of law, with the aim of increasing savings and the
proportion of these channeled through the banking system, strengthening competition in the
financial system, strengthening corporate governance in financial institutions and enterprises and
I iIssues of BPAs amounted to MXP73.6 billion between March and December 2000.
12 Loans from financial institutions amounted to about MXP140 billion in 2000.
13 The package was submitted on April 3, 2001 and approved by Congress before the end of the legislative session
on April 30, 2001. Still pending approval are the Pension Systems Law and the New Organic Laws for the
Development Banks which will be discussed in the next Congressional session.
13



protecting minority rights, promoting innovation in financial products and services, reducing
supervision and regulation costs, and creating and environment that significantly reduces the
vulnerability of the financial system.
31.   The new bills of law and amendment to existing laws approved on April 2001 are the
following:
* Organic Law for the National Mortgage Bank.. This law creates a National Mortgage Bank
with the objective of promoting the construction and acquisition of houses through the
provision of loans and guarantees. This law also creates the conditions for the securitization
of mortgage loans.
* Organic Law for the National Savings and Financial Services Bank.. This law establishes
the National Savings Bank as a national development credit institution to strengthen popular
savings and the institutions that handle them.
* Law of Savings and Popular Credit, and amendments to the General Law of Organizations
and Auxiliary Credit Activities, and to the General Law of Cooperatives.  These
amendments aim at stimulating public savings, particularly of small savers, and to regulate
and supervise popular savings entities.
* Amendment to the Securities Market Law. The objectives of this amendment are to protect
the right of minority shareholders, through improvements in the corporative governance of
the issuers, and requiring that information be made public in an understandable format.
* New Law of Investment Companies (Mutual Funds). This law creates a new focus in the
regulation of investment companies, establishing new rules in the corporative government of
these institutions, and broadens the range of assets in which they can invest.
a Amendments to the Credit Institutions Law
* Amendments to the Law to Regulate Financial Groups.
32.   From the point of view of this operation, the most relevant reforms of the financial
package are the amendments to the Credit Institutions Law and to the Law to Regulate
Financial Groups. These amendments include reforms discussed with the Bank in the context
of preparation of this operation. This new legislation establishes an enhanced legal framework
for the banking sector, but its implementation will require the issuing of new regulations by the
CNBV and the SHCP.
33.   Amendment to the Credit Institutions Law. The amendment to this law included in the
reforrm package introduced, inter alia, the following reforms:
34.   Early warning and prompt corrective action systems. The amendment provides the
CNBV with the faculties to implement an early warning system that would allow it to take
preventive actions with respect to financial institutions that are experiencing financial problems,
before the need of intervention arises. The system will produce information to estimate the
probability of crisis and to rank the different financial institutions according to their susceptibility
to crisis. Banks will be classified according to their capital strength and other elements that
reflect the stability of each institution. The system will trigger prompt corrective actions as soon
as warning signals are detected, such as the prohibition to transfer capital or earnings to
14



shareholders and pay interest on subordinated obligations, the mandatory conversion of
subordinated debt into capital, the presentation by banks of recapitalization plans, and the issuing
of cease and desist orders. These prompt corrective actions will be regulated by the CNBV. The
amendment reduces the discretionality that the CNBV has with respect to when to intervene a
bank. The CNBV will be able to accept or reject the rehabilitation plans presented by the banks.
35.   New principles and rules of "Corporate Governance". The amendment improves the
standards of good corporate governance for banks, holding companies, and bank subsidiaries. It
aims at ensuring greater access to necessary information, both in terms of timeliness and depth,
for the taking of decisions by the shareholder's assembly. It establishes a more robust regime of
responsibilities for members of the Management Counsels, incorporating the need to have
independent members and establishing rules for the operation and functioning of the Counsels
and other intermediate governing units. The amendment also improves the protection of
shareholders rights, establishing improved practices for the General Assembly (i.e. shareholders)
and the provision of enhanced information to shareholders prior to the general assemblies. The
amendment grants the CNBV further powers to: (i) define who is an independent director; (ii)
disqualify managers and external auditors of banks and holding companies; (iii) issue enhanced
fit and proper criteria for managers and directors of banks and holding companies, (iii) establish
minimum assignments for the audit committees; and (iv) regulate the scope and disclosure of the
external audits. The amendment charges the institutions with checking compliance of its
managers with these rules. The amendment also empowers the general assembly of banks to
request the withdrawal of the banking license. The amendment also enables the CNBV to share
information with foreign supervisors protected by bank secrecy provisions.
36.   New norms for related credit. The amendment introduces more stringent rules for
granting and monitoring loans to connected parties, which should be agreed on "arms-length"
basis; establishes smaller limits to connected lending, along with a wider definition of connected
party; and establishes the information to be provided by banks on related credit.
37.   New financial operations. The amendment allows for new types of banking operations
and new means to offer banking services, including derivatives, financial factoring and
operations back-to-back. It also allows bank subsidiaries to issue subordinated obligations,
which could be acquired by foreign investors.
38.   Amendment to the Law to Regulate Financial Groups. The amendment of this law
introduced, inter alia, the following reforms:
39.   Definition of the concept offinancial group. The amendment introduces a new definition
of the concept of financial group. One of the main objectives of the amendment is to grant the
head companies of a financial group the possibility of issuing liabilities different from
subordinated obligations of forced conversion. Currently, this type of entities are in competitive
disadvantage with respect to similar foreign entities.
40.   Consolidated supervision.  The amendment gives the CNBV the capacity to issue
prudential regulation rules (capital adequacy, limits on loans to a single borrower and to related
15



parties, etc.) to be applied to the consolidated financial groups, including reporting and disclosure
standards for financial groups. Associated reporting and disclosure standards would be issued
accordingly.
41.   Program of Regulatory Reforms. The program of regulatory reforms initiated by the
CNBV in September 1999, represented a major step in strengthening the safety and soundness of
the banking system. Additional regulatory reforms to be implemented by the CNBV during 2001
include the following:
42.   New rules for regulatory capital and portfolio classification and provisioning for
development banks. In October 2000, the SHCP issued new norms for regulatory capital and for
classification and provisioning of consumer and mortgage loans for development banks
(Circulars No.1496 and 1497 respectively). These regulations mimic the equivalent rules for
privately owned banks and aim at improving the quality of capital and management,
classification, and provisioning of public bank's loan portfolio. The implementation of the new
capital regulations will be phased in by December 2003. The CNBV is preparing new
classification and provisioning rules for public banks' commercial portfolio, similar to those that
apply to private banks, taking into account the different types of commercial portfolio of these
banks. The new rules and their impact are being discussed with the public banks. These new
rules will be issued during the second quarter of 2001.
43.   New guidelines for internal controls and governance in commercial banking institutions.
The CNBV is preparing new regulations defining minimum standards of internal controls for
banks' different operations. These standards will establish adequate segregation of functions,
including: periodic auditing processes, generation and management of accurate and timely
information, as well as compliance with current laws and regulations. The new regulation for
internal controls is expected to be issued in the second quarter of 2001.
44.   Amendment of the rules applicable to external audit reports. The CNBV is in the process
of introducing amendments to the quality and depth of the reports that external auditors submit to
the CNBV. The objective is to ensure greater complementarity with the supervisory process,
strengthen the relationship between auditors and supervisors, and alleviate the supervisory
burden for banks. The new rules are being discussed with market participants and will be issued
during the third quarter of 2001.
45.   Amendment of the rules for asset diversification. The SHCP and the CNBV are working
on the modification of the Rules of Asset Diversification to meet international standards. The
main changes are the establishment of a clear definition of groups of common risk and a
redefinition of the limits of counterpart risk exposure to 15% of the basic capital of the
institutions. These modifications will be issued during the third quarter of 2001.
46.   New rules to regulate the risk of banking operations via Internet. The CNBV plans to
establish guidelines for managing the operating risks derived from the banks' operations through
the Internet. The objective is that the banks should integrate these risks within their overall risk
16



management practices. The corresponding norms will be issued during the fourth quarter of
2001.
47.   Amendment of the Credit Bureau rules. The credit bureau currently functioning in
Mexico is owned by most of the banks and its information is available to banks and to
commercial companies. The CNBV is working on an initiative to give the banks more freedom
of action with respect to the use of the information of the credit reports. The need to consult the
Credit Bureau will be maintained, but the banks will establish in their operational manuals the
mechanisms to be used to interpret the information obtained in the consultations and the
corrective or preventive measures to be applied in case of negative results. The new norms will
be issued during the second quarter of 2001.
48.   IPAB's Second Stage of Bank Restructuring and Resolution Program. The second
stage of IPAB's bank restructuring/resolution program involves the following transactions:
Bank Resolution Transactions To Be Completed under the
Second Stage of IPAB's Program
Bank Resolution   Type of     Expected date  Estimated notes   Comments
Transaction  of Transaction  to be issued 1"
(MXP billion)
Bancrecer (fifth  Sale        Q4 2001       102.2        IPAB has fully amortized
largest financial                                        in cash MXP57 billion
group)                                                   before the sale
Atlantico       Sale to Bital  Q2 2001     45.0          Bital to invest US$100
million to meet capital
rules of 2003 before the
merge
Intervened banks Liquidation of Q4 2001 to  125.0        MXP35 billion to be paid
7 banks and 3  Q4 2002                   by IPAB to retire the
to be                                    banks from the inter-bank
determined                               market
" Notes issued by IPAB to capitalize the banks prior to selling them and to replace the old FOBAPROA notes.
49.   Sale of Bancrecer. Bancrecer is the fifth largest bank in Mexico with about 800 branches
and 950 ATMs, and total assets of US$8.9 billion equivalent as of December 31, 2000. In
November 1999, IPAB took control of Bancrecer after writing off shareholders' equity on the
basis of Articles 28 and 40 of IPAB's Law (LPAB), thereby taking majority control of the bank.
Immediately thereafter, IPAB declared the "Administraci6n Cautelar" for the management of the
bank. A large international investment bank was awarded a contract to evaluate and analyze the
resolution alternatives for Bancrecer: sale (as an ongoing concern or sale of branches) or
liquidation. The recommendation was to capitalize and sell the bank. IPAB capitalized
Bancrecer through a "performing note" of MXP102.2 billion (US$10.8 billion). To improve the
financial position of the bank prior to its sale, IPAB amortized part of this note, which now
amounts to about MXP46 billion (US$4.8 billion). The capitalization and restructuring of this
bank is now completed and the bank has a clean balance sheet and the most advanced
17



technological platform of any bank in Mexico. The non-performing loans and repossessed assets
of Bancrecer (the bad bank), along with some cash, will be transferred to an independent asset
recovery company fully owned by IPAB. IPAB intends to issue a public offering (convocatoria)
for the sale of Bancrecer before the end of June 2001. Some fringe aspects of this sale have yet to
be resolved.  Several banks, including some international banks, are interested in buying
Bancrecer.
50.   Sale of Atldntico to Bital. In December 1997, Banco del Atlantico and a larger bank,
Bital, signed a Letter of Intent for the restructuring and subsequent absorption of the former by
the latter. In January 1998, Bital assumed the administration of Atlantico by virtue of a Services
Contract (Contrato de Prestaci6n de Servicios Profesionales), and proceeded to quickly absorb it
financially, administratively, and operationally, and to change Atlantico's Board of Directors and
top management. In March 1998, FOBABROA injected MXP6.5 billion into Atlantico to
capitalize it and close the reserve gap, confirmed by the investment bank during the due
diligence. The Letter of Intent allowed Bital to request additional funds from the Government if
it found that there were missing assets or hidden liabilities. IPAB is now negotiating with Bital
the final amount of IPAB's financial support. This will open the way to conclude the sale of
Atlantico to Bital. If no agreement is reached, IPAB may proceed to the liquidation of Atlantico.
51.   Resolution of the Intervened banks. Between 1994 and 1998, the CNBV intervened ten
insolvent banks and several exchange and factoring firms belonging to them. IPAB has equity
participation (as a result of the support provided by FOBAPROA) or hold the guarantees in seven
of these banks: Uni6n, Cremi, Oriente, Obrero, Interestatal, Capital, and Pronorte. IPAB does
not have equity participation in thee other intervened banks: Sureste, Anahuac and Industrial.
Only two of the intervened banks, Industrial and Sureste, have some residual positive franchise
value and may be sold; all the others will be liquidated.
52.   The seven banks in which IPAB has equity participation do not operate with the public,
but they collectively have a remaining staff of about 2000 people, and still fund themselves in the
inter-bank market, where they remain active due to lack of funds. The funding in the inter-bank
market for these banks is done through two of them: Cremi and Uni6n. The other three do their
funding in the inter-bank market by themselves. While the administration of the intervened
banks has, until Tecently, remained under the overall control of the CNBV, the liabilities that
these banks have accumulated in the inter-bank market are liabilities that have to be paid for by
IPAB. The liabilities of these banks in the inter-bank market amount to about MXP35 billion.
Their presence in the inter-bank market creates distortions and increases the contingent liabilities
faced by IPAB.



Intervened Banks
IPAB's ownership                    To be liquidated      To be sold
Received assistance from FOBAPROA   Cremi, Obrero, Oriente,
and IPAB owns the capital shares    Union
Received assistance from FOBAPROA   Capital, Interestatal,
and IPAB has the shares and guarantees  Pronorte
Did not receive financial assistance from  Anahuac.       Sureste, Industrial
FOBAPROA, but need funds for
liquidation or sale
Liabilities of the Intervened banks
(MXP billion)
Net Funding (net of debts among each other)           102.5
Short-term inter-bank loans       35.0
Other funding                     67.0
Other liabilities                                      72.6
IPAB's loans                                          (53.2)
Total net liabilities                                 121.8
53.   Resolution Program for the Intervened Banks. IPAB and the CNBV have agreed on a
mechanism for the liquidation of the seven banks in which IPAB has control of the shares or the
guarantees (nmecanismo para la liquidaci6n de los bancos intervenidos, approved by IPAB's
Board on April 8, 2001) The agreed mechanism involve the following steps:
* Assumption by IPAB of the intervened banks' liabilities. IPAB will sign a Contract of
Assumption of Liabilities with the intervened Banks. IPAB signed this type of contract with
Cremi and Union in December 2000. These two banks account for about 90% of the
liabilities of the intervened banks;
* Signing of a Contract of Mercantile Commission, by which IPAB becomes the only source of
funds for these banks, with a limit on the operating expenses. This puts a time limit for the
liquidation of the banks;
* Retirement of the banks from the inter-bank market. IPAB will channel resources to the
banks to cancel their debts in the inter-bank market as they come due. The intervened banks
will not be allowed to assume any more liabilities in the inter-bank market. IPAB expects
that most of the liabilities of these banks in the inter-bank market will be cancelled in about
six months. IPAB has already paid about MXP20 billion, out of the MXP35 billion owed by
the banks in the inter-bank market. IPAB expects that the inter-ban market debts will be
mostly canceled by the third quarter of 2001. IPAB will restructure the rest of these banks'
debts with lower interest rates and longer maturities (about 7 years);
19



* Revocation of these banks' banking licenses. CNBV, based on the agreements of assumption
of liabilities signed by the banks and IPAB, will inform the SHCP about the existence of
cause for revocation of their banking licenses. The SHCP, in consultation with BOM, will
proceed to the revocation of their banking licenses, and the institutions will enter into a state
of liquidation;
* Liquidation of the intervened banks. The shareholders assembly will meet to recognize the
state of liquidation, Subsequently, the CNBV will lift the intervention of these banks and, as
a result of the revocation, IPAB will become the liquidator of these institutions.
D.    Future Financial Sector Reform Agenda
54.   As indicated above, there are still critical pending issues for policy action in the financial
sector. There is the need to adopt a clearer definition of roles and closer coordination among the
key supervisory and bank resolution entities (IPAB, CNBV, SHCP, and BOM). The remaining
limitations in the bank failure resolution framework need correcting with the establishment of a
well-defined process for the closure, resolution and liquidation of banks; clear roles for all
agencies involved and their respective accountability, and allowing for the option of actual
closure and liquidation of insolvent banks, as an alternative to open bank assistance. There is
also the need to strengthen the legal powers of IPAB as a liquidator such as the need to have
"strong arm" powers (e.g. the ability to repudiate contracts with appropriate compensation,
power to avoid (and recover) fraudulent transfers, etc., and authority to administratively
determine claims filed by non-guaranteed creditors. Also, IPAB's asset disposition tools need to
be enhanced. The role of IPAB as a deposit insurer should be strengthened, giving its Board the
flexibility to establish risk-based premiums. There is the need for a new strategy for public
development banks; and major reforms in specific financing areas (such as housing and rural
finance). Full implementation the new Commercial Reorganization and Bankruptcy Act and the
Miscellany of Secured Transactions will require the correction of some features of the recently
approve amendments and the establishment of a Commercial Public Registrar. The Mexican
authorities have requested Bank support for some of these reforms through adjustment loans and
advisory services.
III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY IN THE BANKING SECTOR
A.    Bank Assistance Strategy in Banking Reform
55.   Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy. The Bank has long been concerned about
the weakness of Mexico's banking system and the effect that lack of real credit could have in
stalling economic growth and excluding some sectors/groups from access to financing. These
points are highlighted in the CAS discussed by the Board on June 8, 1999. The CAS indicates
that one of Mexico's development challenges is to achieve sustainable growth and maintain
macroeconomic stability in the framework of globalization, which requires significant
improvement in the efficiency and transparency of the financial sector. The CAS indicates that
there is a critical role for the Bank in continued support for reform in the legal, regulatory and
institutional framework that will shape post-FOBAPROA banking activity, and more generally
20



financial intermediation in Mexico. This approach is also expressed in the CAS Progress Report
to be discussed by the Board on June 19, 2001.
56.   The Bank's Strategy for Banking Reform in Mexico. Following the approach sketched
in the CAS, the Bank has been providing both formal and informal advise to policymakers to
address issues pertaining to secured transactions and bankruptcy. The CAS also points out that
the Bank will be ready to provide an operation focused on the modernization of the financial
sector's legal and regulatory framework, to assist in bank-by-bank resolution, possibly in the
form of a "bank capitalization trust fund" and provide direct support in absorbing the incremental
fiscal cost of financing the banking sector restructuring, if an adequate incentive and supervisory
framework is simultaneously put in place. On December 14, 1999, the Board approved a Bank
Restructuring Facility of US$505.06 million to support the first phase of Mexico's bank
restructuring program. The President's Report indicated that the proposed loan would be the first
of a series of adjustment loans in support of Mexico's bank restructuring program; and that it was
expected that one or two follow up adjustment loans would be presented to the Board in years
2001 and 2002, to support the resolution of the rest of the banks under IPAB's program. The
proposed Second Bank Restructuring Facility Loan, described in Section IV of this memorandum
would support the second phase of Mexico's Bank Restructuring Program described above. A
subsequent financial sector adjustment operation may be presented to the Board in 2002 to
support additional financial sector reforms.
57.   This loan is another piece in the Bank's programmatic approach, agreed with the Mexican
authorities, of supporting the Government's Bank Restructuring Progran with two transactional
loans and sectoral adjustment and advisory services. It should be recognized that although the
BRFL and the new proposed loan, each of US$505 million, might be seen as relatively large
from the Bank's perspective, they are really quite small considering the magnitude of IPAB's
outstanding liabilities, which amounted to US$72.3 billion as of December 199914, the cash
payments IPAB has already made to resolve major banks which amount to US$17.8 billion, and
also in relation to the annual budgetary transfers received by IPAB. The Bank is, however,
playing an important catalytical role and, in a modest way, supplementing IPAB's cash flow
needs and assisting it in moving towards a more adequate time profile of its large debts. More
specifically, the value added provided by the Bank in supporting the second phase of IPAB's
bank restructuring program results from:
* the provision of additional resources to help meet IPAB's cash-flow needs, at a time when
fiscal transfers are already quite high (MXP34.6 billion in 2000 and MXP39.2 billion in
2001, of which MXP24.3 billion goes directly to 1PAB and the rest to finance debtor support
programs);
* improvement in the maturity profile of IPAB's debt, while bringing significant cost
reductions by lowering the overall cost of servicing IPAB's debt (i.e., given by the difference
between the (CETES + 1.3) and the World Bank's rate adjusted for changes in the external
parity of the MXP;
14 Details of IPAB's liabilities are presented in Annex II.
21



* the establishment of a time frame, with pre-agreed actions, for the completion of the bank
resolution transactions under the program; and
* validation of the transparency and soundness of the transactions covered.
58.   Justification for Adjustment Lending. Under the proposed loan, the Government is
committed to continue making a minimum fiscal transfer per year equivalent to the real
component of interest payments on the total debt of IPAB, net of IPAB's projected income from
deposit insurance fees and asset sales. These transfers are consistent with Mexico's IMF-
supported program, which is designed to accommodate up to the equivalent of 1% of GDP in
fiscal transfers to IPAB for the bank recapitalization/resolution program. Disbursements under
the proposed operation would be additional to the fiscal transfers from the Federal Government
to IPAB; and would reduce, albeit marginally, IPAB's need to raise funds in the domestic
markets to service the nominal component of interest payments, hence making a marginal
contribution to avoiding unnecessary crowding out of the private sector. The first disbursement
under the proposed operation would directly help to meet the Government's and balance of
payments financing needs.
B.    Bank Experience with Policy Based Lending in Mexico
59.   The design of the proposed adjustment operation described in Section IV takes into
account the lessons learned from the BRFL, the Financial Sector Restructuring Loan, approved
on June 22, 1995, as well as other financial sector operations in the Bank, particularly two
transaction-based adjustment operations in Argentina:  The Argentina Provincial Bank
Privatization Loan and the Argentina Bank Reform Loan. These two loans supported serious
restructuring of some of the weakest banks in Argentina, involving nearly a quarter of the
banking system prior to the 1995 international banking crisis. Some of the lessons learned15
from these loans, which are relevant to the proposed operation, are the following
* Structural/ownership change in banking requires resources to re-structure past losses. These
financial resources facilitate acceleration of structural changes that would otherwise not
occur, or occur at a more modest speed.
* Even when sufficient financial resources are available, there will be selection bias in the
roster of potential acquirers. Troubled banks tend not to attract prime-rated buyers. It is
unclear whether program design features alone (such as more incentives) can overcome that
bias.
* Funds should be disbursed only after the careful review of the individual transactions.
* Some of the banks created through these transactions may require additional restructuring as
market conditions change. Some failures need to be anticipated.
* A strong borrower commitment is indispensable in such complicated, time-intensive
transactions.
5 The Joint Implementation Completion Report of these two loans was issued on June 30, 1999. For the Provincial
Bank Privatizations, US$1.3 billion were disbursed to achieve ownership changes at 16 banks with total assets
of about US$6.0 billion. The Bank Reform Loan helped nineteen bank consolidation processes involving
private sector banks.
22



60.   The successful implementation of the previous BRFL-all three tranches were disburses
as expected in calendar year 2000-indicates that the lessons applied were relevant for the BRFL
and remain relevant for the proposed BRFL1I. The main lessons applied to both operations are
the following:
* Set limited objectives. Over ambitious objectives, such as the restoration of the solvency and
soundness of the banking system is a long-term goal that goes beyond a single operation. It is
more realistic to support a program of reforms with a programmatic sector loan, involving a
number of sequential operations that can be approved based on the success of the previous
ones;
* Ensure access to good banking information. Since banking information may be highly
confidential, the Bank may have to give assurances to the authorities about the confidential
handling of this information;
* Disburse against specific transactions. Banking operations should disburse against the
completed resolution of specific bank cases, not against the promise of future actions which
may not materialize; and
* Ensure that the main implementing agency is the main recipient of the Bank resources. Bank
funds should be disbursed to the main agency in charge of implementing the policy reforms,
to strengthen the incentives of these agencies to work in close collaboration with the Bank.
C.    Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
61.   In the design and implementation of the First BRFL, the Bank worked in close
collaboration with both the IMF and the IDB, in order to ensure a coordinated approach to
support Mexico's efforts to restructure its banking sector. The Stand-by Arrangement with
Mexico approved by the Fund Board in June 1999, for an amount equivalent to SDR 3,103
million, concluded in November 2000. This program supported, inter alia, the Government's
program of bank restructuring. The Fund gave particular importance to the progress in
implementing the IPAB Law, including the steps being taken to restructure banks under distress;
and on measures aimed at improving the capitalization of Mexican banks, including the issuance
of new loan classification and provisioning rules. The EMF strongly welcomed the Bank's
involvement in assisting the Mexican authorities to restructure its banking sector. At the request
of the- Mexican authorities, the Bank and the IDB also worked in close collaboration in the
preparation of a parallel IDB operation in support of IPAB's program.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Loan Objectives and Description
62.   The broader policy objective of this proposed loan is to assist the Mexican Government to
implement its Bank Restructuring Program, aimed at bringing about a better functioning banking
sector, able to withstand external shocks and better able to lend to the private sector, opening
23



access to groups and enterprises today largely excluded from bank financing (micro, rural and
SM:E financing). The Bank supported the first phase of Mexico's Bank Restructuring Program
with a US$505.06 adjustment loan (BRFL) approved in December 1999. The Mexican
authorities have requested Bank support for the second phase of its program (described in
Section IV C), which includes actions in two key areas: (i) additional legal and regulatory
reforms to improve the accountability and transparency of banking institutions, and (ii) the
completion of the resolution of problem banks under TPAB's purview. The reforms to be
supported by the proposed loan are necessary but not sufficient to achieve the Government's
program broader objectives. As indicated above, there are still critical pending issues for policy
action in the financial sector. The Government of Mexico has asked for Bank support in a
number of financial sector reform areas, through additional adjustment operations and advisory
services.
63.   As in the case of the BRFL, the proposed BRFL II would help finance part of IPAB's
debt-servicing needs arising from the sale, merger or liquidation of the remaining banks under its
bank restructuring/resolution program. The resolution transactions of these banks would involve
the issuing of new IPAB notes for about US$27 billion equivalent. The Bank funds would
complement other sources of financing available to IPAB, including: fiscal transfers, proceeds
from asset disposal/recovery; placement of bonds in the domestic market (BPAs) and fees from
deposit insurance premia. The Borrower would be NAFIN, with a Guarantee from the Federal
Government. The implementation of the bank restructuring/resolution program would be carried
out by IPAB, with the support of the CNBV and the SHCP.
64.   A first tranche of US$150 million would be disbursed upon loan effectiveness in support
of up front reform measures taken by the Mexican authorities. Two tranches of US$175 million
each would be disbursed based on the following actions:
*  the conclusion of Eligible Bank Resolution Transactions.  These are bank resolution
transactions that meet agreed eligibility criteria. Bank Resolution Transactions that could be
eligible under this operation are:
/  sales of Bancrecer
v' sale of Atlantico
V liquidation of seven intervened banks (revocation of their banking license)
*  the issuing by IPAB of Eligible Notes or Eligible Cash Transactions for an agreed amount
in support of Eligible Bank Resolution Transactions. Eligible Notes are notes issued by
IPAB for partial financing of an Eligible Bank Resolution Transaction, that pay in cash at
least the real component of the interest rate. Eligible Cash Transactions are cash payments
made by IPAB for partial financing of an Eligible Bank Resolution Transaction;
*  the implementation of agreed actions envisaged under the Regulatory Reform Program;
*  the implementation of agreed actions under IPAB's Asset Disposal Program; and
*  the implementation of agreed actions under the Intervened Banks Resolution Program.
65.   It is expected that the first tranche will be disbursed at the end of June 2001, that the
second tranche will be disbursed before the end of the 2001 calendar year, and that the third
tranche will be disbursed within the 2002 calendar year.
24



66.   During negotiations, the authorities submitted to the Bank the following documents:
*  Procedural Guidelines for the Liquidation of the Intervened Banks, describing the
measures for the liquidation of seven intervened banks (Creimi, Uni6n, Oriente, Obrero,
Capital, Interestatal and Pronorte), agreed by IPABs's Board's meeting of May 8, 2001, in
consultation with the CNBV.
* Regulatory Reform Program, describing the regulatory reforms intended to improve the
health and stability of the banking sector, issued or to be issued by the CNBV or the SHCP
during 2001, including the intended dates of issuing and the schedules of irnplementation; and
* IPAB 's Asset Disposal Program for calendar years 2001 (AnnexIV). IPAB will submit to the
Bank its Asset Disposal Program for 2002, when it is formulated, later in the year 2001.
67.   During negotiations, the Bank and the authorities agreed on the content of the Bank
Resolution Program and the Eligibility criteria to include a bank resolution transaction under
the proposed loan.
68.   IPAB's Bank Resolution Program. This program refers to the following set of actions
aimed at the resolution of the banking institutions referred to below:
(A) Program of capitalization, restructuring, sale, or liquidation of Bancrecer and
Atlantico, and
(B) Intervened Banks Resolution Program is the program of resolution of the banks
intervened by the CNBV, which includes:
(a) Banks under liquidation. For seven of the intervened banks (Cremi, Uni6n,
Obrero, Oriente, Capital, Interestatal and Pronorte) the liquidation has already
been decided in the strategy approved by IPAB's Board on May 9, 2001
(Mecanismo de Liquidaci6n de los Bancos Intervenidos), and to be approved by
the CNBV by loan effectiveness. The main steps of this strategy involve the
following:
(i) assumption by IPAB of the liabilities of the intervened banks, and
subsequent retirement from the inter-bank market of Cremi and Uni6n. To
this purpose, IPAB will pay the inter-bank liabilities of these banks as they
come due.
(ii) revocation of the banking licenses of each of the seven banks intervened
by the CNBV: Cremi, Uni6n, Obrero, Oriente, Capital, Interestatal and
Pronorte.
(b) Rest of the intervened banks (Sureste, Industrial, and An6huac). For these
banks IPAB and the CNBV are in the process of analyzing various courses of
action. The procedural guidelines for the resolution of such banks will be
approved before disbursement of the third tranche.
25



69.   Eligibility Criteria for Bank Resolution Transactions. The IPAB's Law establishes
strict audit and evaluation criteria by international auditing firms and investment banks to decide if
the least cost solution is to sell or liquidate each bank under IPAB's purview. In each case, the
auditors have to assess the resources that IPAB needs to capitalize or liquidate each bank. The
Law also ensures oversight by Congress, the SHCP and the CNBV over IPAB's bank resolution
transactions. IPAB has completed this type of analysis for the cases of Bancrecer and Atlantico.
IPAB must consult with a third party opinion for the resolution of the intervened banks in which it
does not have equity.
(a) Eligibility criteria in case of the sale of a bank For purposes of this operation, the sale of
a bank will be an eligible transaction if it meets the following criteria:
*  that the decision of whether to restructure/sale or liquidate a bank has been made on
the basis of the least cost solution, honoring the commitments previously agreed upon,
in the case of proposed mergers;
*  that adjustments have been made to the balance sheet of the bank in line with the
results of audit reports;
* that cash or new "performing" notes have been issued by IPAB;
* that the sale of a bank has followed best international practices and the prospective
buyer should have been pre-qualified by IPAB with the opinion of the CNBV;
* that the CNBV has approved the sale; and
* in the case of a merger, that the merger should not weaken the absorbing bank's
financial position and the resulting bank should be viable.
(b) Eligibility criteria in the case of the liquidation of a bank The experience in other
countries indicates that the complete liquidation of a bank could involve many years until all
legal aspects are resolved. For purposes of the proposed operation, a bank will be considered
as liquidated if the following steps have taken place:
* the bank is no longer allowed to contract new liabilities in the inter-bank market; and
* that the SHCP has revoked the banking license.
70.   Letter of Sector Development Policy. The authorities have submitted to the Bank a
draft Letter of Sector Development Policy describing the current economic conditions in Mexico
and the Government's continuous effort to reform the financial sector, with the aim of solving
issues pending from the banking carisis of 1994/1995. The letter describes the objectives and
strategy for financial sector reforms of the package of legal and regulatory reforms recently
approved by Congress, as well as the regulatory reforms that will be implemented in the next few
months. The Letter also indicates the commitment of the Government to complete the resolution
of the banks affected by the crisis and to continue providing budgetary16 support to IPAB to
16 The Revenues Law of the Federation for the year 2001 (Budget Law) includes an allocation of MP$24.3 billion
to IPAB (0.5% of GDP). The law also allocated MXP14.9 billion to other bank programs.
26



ensure the stabilization of IPAB's debt in real terms. The signed Letter of Sector Development
Policy will be circulated to the Board separately.
B.    Commitments Under the Proposed Loan
Conditions of Effectiveness.
71.   The loan will become effective when the following conditions have been met:
*  That the Borrower and the Guarantor have entered into a legal agreement, Agency
Agreement, that establishes the termns and conditions of the transfer of the Bank loan proceeds
to IPAB, and that these agreements have been authorized or ratifies by the Borrower and
IPAB;
*  That the macroeconomic policy framework is satisfactory to the Bank, based on criteria
agreed during negotiations.
* That the CNBV has issued regulations on: (i) the extension to development banks of the
classification and provisioning norms for commercial credits that apply to private banks; and
(ii) the establishment of minimum guidelines for internal controls in conmmercial banking
institutions; and
* That IPAB has issued a public offering (convocatoria) for the sale of Bancrecer.
*  That CNBV has approved a strategy for the liquidation of the following intervened banks:
Cremi, Uni6n, Obrero, Oriente, Capital, Interestatal and Pronorte.
First Tranche Actions
72.   A first tranche of US$150 million would be disbursed upon loan effectiveness, in support
of up front measures already taken by the Mexican authorities in the following areas:
* Issuing in 10/2000, of norms for regulatory capital and for classification and provisioning of
consumer and mortgage loans for development banks equivalent to those that apply to private
banks;
* Approval in 12/2000 of the Budget Law providing an allocation of MXP24.3 bilion to IPAB;
*  Official assumption by IPAB, in 12/2000, of the liabilities of Uni6n and Cremi, two banks
intervened by the CNBV;
*  Approval by Congress in 04/2001 of an amendmnent to the Credit Institutions Law,
introducing, inter alia, the following reforms:
V Early warning and prompt corrective action framework.
V New principles and rules of "Corporate Governance" to irnprove the practices of credit
institutions, protect shareholders, and require the banks to have independent counselors
and audit committees.
27



' Tighter norms for related credits in terms of amounts and conditions
/ New operating norms allowing for new types of banking operations and new means to
offer banking services
v/ Ability of the CNBV to share information with foreign supervisors protected by bank
secrecy provisions.
Approval by Congress in 04/2001 of an amendment to the Law to Regulate financial
Groups, introducing, inter alia, the following reforms:
V Granting to the CNBV the capacity to issue prudential regulation rules that apply to
financial groups including capital requirements and inter group transactions.
Second Tranche Actions
73.   A second tranche of US$175 million would be disbursed upon evidence, satisfactory to
the Bank, of the following:
* That IPAB has issued Eligible Notes or entered into Eligible Cash Transactions in an
aggregate amount of at least US$3.0 billion equivalent in support of Eligible Bank
Resolution Transactions.
*  That the Intervened Banks Resolution Program has been implemented on a consistent basis,
in accordance with its terms.18 This involves, at a minimum, assumption by IPAB of the
liabilities of the intervened banks, and subsequent retirement from the inter-bank market of
Cremi and Uni6n. To this purpose, IPAB will pay the inter-bank liabilities of these banks as
they come due.
*  That the Regulatory Reform Program   has been implemented on a consistent basis, in
accordance with its terms;19;
*  That IPAB's Asset Disposal Program continues being implemented on a consistent basis, in
accordance with its terms20 and
*  That Budgetary Transfers to IPAB have been made in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB to
discharge its responsibilities under the Program (as agreed in the Implementation Letter).
18 Terms of the Program and implementation timetable are detailed in Implementation Letter.
19 Terms, targets and actions included in the Program are detailed in the Implementation Letter.
20 Amounts and nature of assets to be disposed of, and implementation timetable are detailed in the Implementation
Letter.
28



Third Tranche Actions
74.   A third tranche of US$175 million would be disbursed upon evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, of the following:
* That IPAB has issued Eligible Notes or entered into Eligible Cash Transactions, in an
aggregate amount of at least US$10.0 billion equivalent, in support of Eligible Bank
Resolution Transactions, including in such amount any Eligible Notes issued (or Eligible
Cash Transactions) in excess of the amount required for the disbursement of the loan's
second tranche;
* That the Intervened Banks Resolution Program has been implemented on a consistent basis,
in accordance with its terms. This includes the presentation to the Bank of the procedural
guidelines agreed by IPAB and the CNBV for the resolution of the rest of the intervened
banks (Sureste, Industrial, and Anahuac).
* That the Regulatory Reform Program has been implemented on a consistent basis, in
accordance with its terms;
* That IPAB's Asset Disposal Program continues being implemented on a consistent basis, in
accordance with its terms (as agreed in the Implementation Letter); and
* That Budgetary Transfers to IPAB have been made in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB to
discharge its responsibilities under the Program (as agreed in the Implementation Letter).
C.    Disbursements, Records and Auditing
75.   The Borrower, acting as an authorized financial agent of the Guarantor, will lend, with
Government guarantee, the counterpart funds to IPAB in equivalent Mexican pesos to the
respective amounts of each disbursement, on the same basis as the Bank loan. The Borrower and
the Guarantor will enter into a legal agreement, Agency Agreement, that will establish the terms
and conditions of the loan to IPAB. The Borrower and IPAB will enter into a contractual
arrangement establishing the terms and conditions of the loan to IPAB.
76.   Loan disbursement would be made under simplified FSAL disbursement procedures. The
Borrower would be required to open and maintain a Deposit Account in dollars in BOM. As
funds are released, the Borrower will submit a simplified withdrawal application against which
the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into the Deposit Account for the Borrower's use. If
after deposited in the Deposit Account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes,
the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount
equal to the amount of said payment, or (b) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to
the Bank, in which case, the Bank would credit the amount refunded to the Loan Account for
cancellation.
29



77.   Upon the Bank's request, the Deposit Account shall be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the Deposit Account audits will be submitted to the Bank no
later than four months after the date of the Bank's request for such audits.
78.   Prior to second and third tranche release, the Guarantor will submit to the Bank a
progress report on the implementation of the Regulatory Reform Program. Before second and
third tranche disbursement IPAB will notify the Bank on the compliance of each bank transaction
with the agreed eligibility criteria,2' and on its progress in implementing its Asset Disposal
Program. Also before second and third tranche disbursement, the SHCP will present to the Bank
copy of its letter to IPAB informing it of the date, modality and amount of the budgetary
transfers. This letter should show that prior to second tranche disbursement, the SHCP has
transferred to IPAB at least half of the approved budgetary allocation, and that prior to the third
tranche disbursement it has transferred to IPAB at least 80% of the approved budgetary
allocation. The Guarantor will inform the Bank of any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Loan which would reverse the objectives of the bank restructuring program.
D.    Impact, Benefits and Risks
79.   Social Impact. The measures supported by this operation would have important long-run
social implications as they would: reduce the risk of a repeat of the 1994/1995 banking crisis, and
stimulate the resumption of prudent lending to the private sector, with the associated benefits in
terms of output growth and employment generation. A banking system less vulnerable to crises
will be better able to sustain growth and, therefore, avoid poverty (see section I B for a more
detailed discussion of the links with poverty reduction). Greater access to credit by small and
medium enterprises would create more job opportunities, an important objective in a country
with a high level of disguised unemployment.
80.   Environmental Impact. The bank restructuring program to be supported by the proposed
loan are not expected to have any environmental impact. The loan is ranked C for environmental
purposes.
81. Benefits. The most important benefit of the proposed loan would be its contribution to a
reduction of the risks of a repeat of the 1994/1995 banking crisis. The financial sector legal and
regulatory reform supported by this loan would improve bank regulation and supervision and
increase transparency of the banking sector, which would reduce the risk of another bank crisis.
Just a small reduction in the probability of such a crisis would imply high expected gains in
poverty, as indicated by the negative impact of the previous crisis on poverty levels in Mexico.
Another benefit of this operation would be its contribution to establishing the conditions for the
resumption of bank lending, which has collapsed in Mexico since the 1994/1995 crisis. The
21 IPAB will provide: (i) copy of the Specific Agreement of IPAB's Board (Junta de Gobierno); (ii) contract signed
for the completion of the transaction; and (iii) opinion of the CNBV with respect to each transaction.
30



completion of IPAB's bank restructuring/resolution program would help ensure banking
soundness by the time the full deposit insurance guarantee is phased out, particularly in 2003
(when inter-bank loans would be excluded) and 2005 (when the maximum amount of individual
insured deposits is reduced to about US$100,000 equivalent). Strong and well capitalized banks
would be in better position to resume prudent lending to the private sector, with the attendant
beneficial effects on growth and employment. Also, by contributing to finance IPAB's program,
the loan would help the Government to make explicit the cost of solving the bank problems and
avoid further delays, which would make the eventual resolution of the bank problems even more
expensive for Mexican tax payers.
82.   Risks. There are several risks associated with this operation. One key risk is that IPAB
may be limited in its ability to refinance its debt and, as a result, face increasing limitations in its
capacity to capitalize and sell, or unwind and liquidate, troubled banks. IPAB may face
particularly complex refinancing challenges when the FOBAPROA notes issued in connection
with the old capitalization and loan purchase programs fall due between 2005 and 2006. This
risk is mitigated by IPAB's skilful management of its liabilities, which has resulted in a reduction
of the total liabilities in real terms during 2000. Also, the experience up to now is that IPAB has
not experienced any major difficulties in issuing "performing notes" in connection to the first
stage of its bank resolution program. In fact, the demand for BPAs during the 2000 weekly
auctions has been, on average, more than 3 times the amounts offered. There is also the risk that
IPAB's large debt issues associated with the bank capitalization/resolution process could imply
higher and more volatile interest rates than otherwise. The experience during 2000 shows that
this does not need to be the case. Although the interest rate paid by IPAB's BPAs over CETEs
increased during the third quarter due to the election uncertainties, they registered a downward
tendency after the elections. In the longer run, there is a possibility that IPAB's debt could be
included as part of the Government's debt. This would significantly reduce the overall cost of
the banking resolution program. This is a point that the Bank has raised in its policy discussions
with the Government.
83.   There is the risk that Mexican banks may not be attractive to new or existing investors
due to their low returns. The successful sale of Serfin, to BSCH, of Bancomer to BBVA, of
Inverlat to Nova Scotia, and Banamex to Citygroup, indicate that this risk might not be too high.
Moreover, the transactional nature of the loan disbursements would reduce the risk of such an
outcome for the proposed operation. Finally, there is the risk that the remaining shortcomings of
the bank resolution framework may delay the liquidation of the intervened banks. The Mexican
authorities have assured the Bank that the SHCP has the legal faculties to revoke the banking
licenses of these banks, once they have been retired from the inter-bank market, and their
accounts in the BOM have been closed.
31



V.     RECOMMENDATION
84.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D. C.
May 23, 2001
Attachments
32



ANNEX I
MEXICO
PROPOSED SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY COMMITMENTS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE
OBJECTIVES            ICrONS TAKEN UNDER THE FIRST BRFL                          ACITIONS TO BE TAKEN UNER        TE
iSECOND lRIrL
1. MACROECONOMIC PO LICY FRAMEWORK
Maintenance of Supportive     Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework consistent  *  Maintenance of sound macroeconomic policy
Macroeconomic Program         with policy objectives and program described in Letter of   framework consistent with policy objectives and
Sector Policy                                              proga   described in Letter of Sector Policy
2. REFORM OF LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Improve incentives in the  Introduction of limited deposit insurance coverage. In 12/98,  Measures taken prior to Board Presentation:
financial sector           Congress passed new legislation creating the Institute for the  *  Approval by Congress in 04/01 of an amendment
Protection of Bank Savings (IPAB). The Law phases-in a limited  to the Credit Institutions Law, introducing, inter
deposit insurance scheme to replace the existing universal insurance  alia, the following:
guarantee, between 06/99 and 12/05 (with the elimination of    v   Early warning and prompt corrective action
coverage on inter-bank liabilities by 01/04)                       framework.
*   Elimination of restrictions to full participation offoreign  V  New  principles and rules of "Corporate
investors in existing Mexican banks                            Governance" to improve the practices of
*   Improvement in contract enforcement and creditor rights: In    credit institutions, protect shareholders, and
4/00 Congress passed a Commercial Reorganization and           require the banks to have independent board
Bankruptcy law which strengthens foreclosure procedures; and   members and audit committees.
a Miscellany of Secured Lending which creates conditions for  V  Tighter norms for related credits in terms of
lending based on movable collateral.                           amounts and conditions
New operating norms allowing for new types
of banking operations and new means to
offer banking services
V   Ability of the CNBV to share information
with foreign supervisors protected by bank
secrecy provisions.
Approval by Congress in 04/01 of an amendment
to the Law to Regulate Financial Groups,
introducing, inter alia, the following:
V   Ability of the CNBV to issue prudential
regulation that applies to the financial groups
including capital requirements and inter
group transactions.
33



OBJECTIVES         TACTIONS TAKEN UNDER THE FIRST BRFI                          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER TliF
____________           I_                  _  __________I_I|SECOND BRFL                                       __
3. STRENGTHENING OF BANKING REGULATION
To raise banking sector    In 09/99, the SHCP/CNBV announced a series of regulatory    Measures taken prior to Board Presentation:
regulation towards         reforms to be introduced gradually between 01/00 and 12/02.  *  Issuance between 10/00 and 01/01 of prudential
international standards to:  Within this program, regulations have been already issued in  norms for regulatory capital and for classification
   Improve the quality of  respect of:                                                    and provisioning of consumer and mortgage
banks' capital                                                                         credits for development banks equivalent to those
*   Enhance accounting and  *  Changes in the definition of regulatory capital which includes:  that apply to private banks.
disclosure standards       (i) limiting the weight of deferred taxes in Tier I capital; (ii)
*   Eliminate unjustified      defining the characteristics of the non-cumulative subordinated  Measures to be taken prior to loan effectiveness:
forbearance                debentures that could be counted as Tier I capital; (iii)  *  Issuance by the CNBV    of new   prudential
*   Improve loan               deducting all equity investments in non-traded, non-financial  regulations in the following areas:
classification and         companies from capital; and (iv) substituting specific      v   Extension to development banks of the
provisioning rules         provisions for general provisions in Tier 2 capital             classification and provisioning niorms for
Requirements to disclose the composition of regulatory capital  commercial credits that apply to private
*   Improvements in the definition of risk weighted assets          banks
*   New classification and provisioning rules for credit card loans  |   Establishment of minimum  guidelines for
*   New criteria to grant regulatory forbearance and requirements  I  internal controls in commercial banking
to disclose instances of regulatory forbearance                 institutions.
*   Requirements to disclose "troubled "debt, financial information
by business segment and aggregate information on transactions  Second Tranche Actions
with related parties                                     *  Evidence that the Regulatory Reform Program'
*   Improvement of accounting practices towards international   has been implemented on a consistent basis, in
standards regarding market valuation of investments and     accordance with its terms
derivatives
*   Introduction of accounting standards applicable to assets  Third Tranche Actions
securitization and assets transfers                     *   Evidence that the Regulatory Reform Program
*   New regulation for loan classification and loan loss provision  has been implemented on a consistent basis, in
for mortgages                                               accordance with its terms
*   New regulation for loan classification and loan loss provision
for commercial loans
4. RESTRUCTURING/RESOLUTION OF BANKS BY IPAB
To restructure, sell, merge or  The IPAB Law, approved in 12/98, enables IPAB to assume the  Measures taken prior to Board presentation:
liquidate banks under      functions of a deposit insurance and resolution agency to: (i)  *  Official assumption by IPAB, in 12/00, of all the
Regulatory Reform Program involves the issuance of new or the amendment of existing prudential regulations by the CNBV or the SHCP (as the case may be) in accordance
with what is established and defined in the Implementation Letter,
34



OBJECTIVES            ACTIONS TAKEN UNDER THE FIST BRFL                          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER THE
SECOND BRFL
IPAB's bank restructuring  manage the bank support programs and accelerate the financial    liabilities of two of the banks intervened by the
program                    strengthening of currently undercapitalized banks, and the sale or  CNBV (Cremi and Union), representing the bulk
liquidation of intervened ones; and (ii) sell the assets purchased by  of the intervened banks' liabilities
FOBAPROA from banks under previous bank support programs     *  Approval by IPAB in 05/01, of the Procedural
within a time frame of up to 5 years                             Guidelines for the Liquidation of the Intervened
Banks (Mecanismo de Liquidacion de los Bancos
Under the first stage of its Bank Restructuring and Resolution  Intervenidos) for the Intervened Banks under
Program, IPAB completed the following bank resolution           liquidation  (Cremi, Union, Oriente, Obrero,
transactions:                                                   Capital, Interestatal and Pronorte)
*   Sale of Serfin to BSCH: Sale completed in 5/00           *  Approval in 12/00 of the 2001 Budget Law
*   Merger of Promex and Bancomer: Merger completed in 8/00     including a budgetary allocation to IPAB of
*   Sale of Inverlat to Nova Scotia: Sale of majority ownership  MXP24.3 billion and allowing IPAB to continue
(55%) of shares of Inverlat to Nova Scotia completed in 11/00  refinancing its debt in the market
All these transactions were "Eligible Bank Resolution        Measures to be taken prior to loan effectiveness:
Transactions" 2 under the BRFL. To complete these transactions,  *  IPAB's issuance of a public offering
IPAB issued "Eligible Notes" 3 for an aggregate amount of       (convocatoria) for the sale of Bancrecer
MXP127 billion (US$12.7 billion equivalent) and paid in cash for  *  Approval by CNBV of a strategy for the
MXP39.5 billion (US$4.1 billion equivalent)                     liquidation of the following intervened banks:
Cremi, Uni6n, Obrero, Oriente, Capital,
Interestatal and Pronorte
In order to ensure the stabilization of IPAB's debt in real terms, the
2000 Budget Law included a budgetary allocation of MXP35.0   Second-Tranche Actions
billion to IPAB, and allowed IPAB to refinance its debt in the  *  That IPAB has issued "Eligible Notes" or entered
market. The budgetary transfers to IPAB during calendar year    into "Eligible Cash Transactions" in an aggregate
2000 were made in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB to       amount equal to at least US$3.0 billion, in
discharge its responsibilities under the Program.               support of "Eligible Bank Resolution
2 Eligible Bank Resolution Transactions means the sale or liquidation of any banking institution in IPAB's Bank Restructuring and Resolution Program, carried out in accordance
with the eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank. The bank transactions are: sale of Bancrecer; sale or liquidation of Atlantico; revocation of the banking licenses of each of seven
intervened banks: Cremi, Uni6n, Oriente; Obrero, Capital, Interestatal, and Pronorte; and sale/liquidation of the three remaining intervened banks: Sureste, Industrial, and
AnAhuac).
3Eligible Notes means notes (instrumentos de crddito) issued by IPAB for partial financing of an eligible bank resolution transaction. These notes must pay in cash at least the real
component of the interest rate. Eligible Cash Transactions are cash payments made by IPAB for partial financing of an eligible bank resolution transaction are considered in
computing the total amount of Eligible Notes.
4 Thte Intervened Banks Resolution Program is the program of actions for the resolution of the banking institutions intervened by the CNBV, described in the
Implementation Letter.
35



OBJECTIVES           ACTIONS TAKEN UNDER THIE FIRST BRFL                        ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER THE
SECOND BRFL
Transactions"
   That the Intervened Banks Resolition Program4
is being implemented on a consistent basis in
accordance with its terms
*   That budgetary transfers to IPAB have been made
in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB to
discharge its responsibilities under the Program
Third-Tranche Actions
*   That IPAB has issued "Eligible Notes" or entered
into "Eligible Cash Transactions" in an aggregate
amount equal to at least US$ 10.0 billion, in
support of "Eligible Bank Resolution
Transactions"
*   That the Intervened Banks Resolution Program
has been implemented on a consistent basis in
accordance with its terms
*   That budgetary transfers to IPAB have been made
in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB to
discharge its responsibilities under the Program
*   Approval by CNBV and IPAB of procedural
guidelines for the resolution of the remaining
intervened banks under CNBV's control (Sureste;
Industrial; Anahuac).
4 SALE/RECOVERY OF BANK ASSETS HELD BY IPAB
To recover the maximum    During 1999-2000, IPAB auctioned the disposed of part of the  Second Tranche Actions
amount from the bank assets  assets in its portfolio through three modalities: direct sales,  *  That IPAB's Asset Disposal Program has been
under IPAB's purview,     administration contracts, and rights transfers, in accordance with its  implemented on a consistent basis, in accordance
within the time frame     Asset Recovery Program. The amounts recovered were: MXP9.8     with its terms
provided by the IPAB Law  billion from the sale of eight packages of credit portfolio, and
MXP2.8 billion from the sale of goods and real estate.     Third Tranclie Actions
* That IPAB's Asset Disposal Program has been
implemented on a consistent basis, in accordance
with its terms
36



ANNEX II
IPAB's Finances
1.   The total liabilities of IPAB were estimated at MXP722.5 billion (about US$72
billion, or 14.3% of GDP) at end-December 1999. Most of this debt is inherited from
FOBAPROA. The viability of IPAB's program of bank resolution is interdependent with
the management of IPAB's cash flow over time. On the one hand, a sound process of
resolution of banks under IPAB's purview requires the injection of cash or the issuance
of "performing" notes, i.e., notes that would not only accrue interest at a market rate, but
that would also have to provide a minimum of liquidity, by paying at least the real
component of interest in cash on a periodic basis, and by being tradable in the market or,
if designed to be held to maturity, by amortizing periodically.  Similarly, the
strengthening of banks currently under private management (and hence not under IPAB' s
purview), whose balance sheets contain a significant amount of old FOBAPROA notes,
require a gradual swap of those old notes with new, more liquid, shorter term IPAB notes.
The need for IPAB to issue notes with market conditions and minimal liquidity, however,
would immediately burden IPAB's cash flow. On the other hand, given the large size of
IPAB's liabilities, the cash flow impact of the issuance of more liquid notes, both to
replace the illiquid old ones and to complete the resolution processes, can only be
absorbed gradually, in line with the constraints that IPAB faces in terms of its income,
the need to prevent an explosive path for IPAB's debt, the capacity to manage an orderly
placement of large amounts of new notes in the market, and the fiscal constraints for
large, annual, budgetary transfers to IPAB.
2.   IPAB has adopted a strategy of refinancing its debt to improve its maturity profile
and reduce its cost. This strategy involves the following measures:
*  weekly issues of Bonos de Proteccion al Ahorro (BPAs) amounting to MXP73.6
billion between March and December 2000.
*  Long-term loans from financial institutions amounting to about MXP140 billion in
2000.
*  Bank sales and restructuring of their liabilities
* Refinancing and prepayment of most expensive obligations (Confia, Bancrecer)
3.   The effects of this strategy has been a reduction of 7.2% in real terms of IPAB's
debt between December 1999 and December 2000, reducing it from 14.3% to 11.2% of
GDP. IPAB has also been able to reduce the financial cost of its debt from an average of
CETES + 1.30 to CETES + 1.14, although it is expected to move to CETES + 1.05, once
there is an exchange of notes under the "Capitalization and Exchange of Portfolio
Progarm". The Bank loan has made a contribution to improving the profile of IPAB's
debt.
37



Table 1. Evolution of IPAB's Debt
(MXP billion)
12/31/1999              12/31/2000              Real % Change
*   Capitalization and
Loan Purchase       150.446                  174.832                   6.7
Program
*   Financial           369.411                 214.368                  -46.7
Rehabilitation
Programs
*   Liabilities from    164.138                  134.476                 -24.8
intervened banks
*   Other Liabilities     38.470                  36.670                 -12.5
*   Debt issued during                           187.672                 0
2000
Subtotal                722.465                 748.018                  -5.0
*   Liquid resources      (4.122)                 (21.456)
* Debtors support and
in-kind payment
programs             (30.509)                 (30.935)
Total                   687.844                 695.627                   -7.2
Source: IPAB
Projected Evolution of IPAB's debt as a Percentage of GDP
14.00%  13.14%
12.00%    1.24%
10.0 0%                9      9.3%    . 6
m  8.00%            1.                         8.%    8-29%  7-96%  7.65%  7.34%  7 06%
8.003
W  800%                                ~                                     d~
4.00%                                               [          
0.00%                                                         ----
2000 a  200le  2002e  2003.  2004e  2005e  20068  2007.  2008.  2009e  2010.
Assumptions: 2001: 5.54% real rate, 4.0% growth of GDP; 2002: 5.54% real rate; 4.5% growth of GDP;
2003-20 10: 5.50% real rate, 4.5% growth of GDP
Source: IPAB
38



Table 2. IPAB's Funding Sources
(MXP billion)
2000                 2001
Debt issues and loans   213.8                99.9
Federal budget          34.6                 24.3
Asset sales             40.6                 10.5
Bank fees*              4.2                   5.0
Total                   293.2                140.8
Source IPAB
*75% of the quotas paid by the banks in the system for the limited deposit guarantee
Exchange rate as of 12/31/2000: 9.65
Supply and Demand of BPAs ( 3 years)
12,000-                      (MXP million)
10,00t
8,000-
6,000-
4,000
2,000-
0.
O cm   N     CO) 6 q  X e Co         L d     0  0-0
Auctions
Demand               Supply_____
Source: IPAB
39



40



ANNEX III
The signed Letter of Sector Development Policy will be distributed separately
SUBSECRETARIAT OF FINANCE AND
PUBLIC CREDIT
Mexico, D. F.
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
This Sector Development Policy Letter describes Mexico's current economic conditions
and the continuous efforts of the Government to promote the reform of the financial
sector, with the aim to solve the pending issues resulting from the severe banking crisis of
1994-1995. The proposed actions are geared towards creating the necessary conditions
for the financial sector to increasingly contribute to the financing of our country's
economic growth. To contribute to these reforms and reduce the associated fiscal costs,
the Government requests financial assistance from the World Bank.
I.    Macroeconomic Framework
The economic performance during year 2000 greatly surpassed initial growth projections.
This favorable evolution was aided by the positive effects of both internal and external
factors, which helped to provide a strong impulse to productive dynamism. As a result,
the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by about 6.9 percent, reaching the highest level
of the last twenty years. This result was favored by the performance of the services and
industrial sectors, which grew at rates of 7.4 and 6.8 percent, in real terms, respectively.
The expansion of productive activities in the recent past has been accompanied of a
gradual reduction of inflation (consumer price index), which after having reached more
than 50 percent per annum by the middle of the 1990s, in 2000 was reduced to 9 per cent.
During year 2000, the behavior of the public finances was determined by the favorable
evolution of the international prices of oil and the dynamism of economic activity. Both
factors allowed the generation of public revenues above the programmed levels. With
respect to the use of the additional resources available to the Government, it is worth
mentioning the creation of the Petroleum Income Stabilization Fund (Fondo de
Estabilizacli&n de los Ingresos Petroleros - FEP) and the amortization of the obligations
41



derived from the debtor support programs for 9,133 and 6,500 million pesos,
respectively.
To increase the efficiency and transparency of the public sector, the process of
expenditure decentralization was continued. The decentralization of public expenditures
transfers more responsibilities and resources to federative entities and municipalities, to
allow them to respond more efficiently to the demands of the population, and facilitate
better accountability of the different levels of government to the citizens. At the same
time, social expenditures maintained their upward trajectory, with annual growth of 9.5
percent, and was oriented towards priority areas such as education, health, social security
and public security.  These resources were channeled to provide services to the
population in general and to combat the conditions of extreme poverty. With respect to
the latter, the Progresa and Procampo programs are noteworthy.
The expectations of economic growth for year 2001 are being negatively affected by the
economic deceleration of the United States, our main economic partner. The projections
of GDP growth for year 2001 are in the range of 2.5 and 3.0 percent. Nevertheless, we
are confident that the economic strategy oriented, among other aspects, to support greater
competitiveness of productive enterprises and the strengthening of the financial system-
particularly through a recuperation of credit to the private sector and lower interest
rates-will cause the economy to grow in a sustained manner, facilitate access to
financial services, stimulate investment, create employment, promote higher salaries, and
reduce poverty. All of this in a context of macroeconomic and price stability.
II.   Financial Reform Program
The financial reform program of the Federal Government can be conceived in several
stages. One stage was initiated at the end of 1998, when some measures were taken to
strengthen the financial system, negatively affected by the 1994/1995 crisis. Among the
most important policy measures implemented are the following:
* Reform of the legal framework to improve the incentives of the financial sector.
Adoption of a limited deposit insurance system. The H. Congress of the Union approved
in December 31, 1998, the Law for the Protection of Bank Savings (LPAB), which
became effective since January 20, 1999. The law authorizes the creation of the Institute
for the Protection of Bank Savings (IPAB), as the institution in charge of establishing the
basis and to administer a new System of Deposit Insurance, ruled by a clear and explicit
regulatory framework, of obligatory participation for the banking institutions; and, which
under a process of gradual reduction, will maintain a limited and explicit coverage of
savers' deposits.
In the framework of the LPAB, the IPAB has two main objectives: (i) provide to the
banking institutions a system for the protection of bank savings that guarantees payment,
in a subsidiary and limited form, of the guaranteed obligations of these institutions; and
(ii) administer the financial strengthening programs that it formulates and executes for the
42



benefit of savers and users of the banking institutions, in preservation of the safety of the
national payments system. With respect to the first point, the law contemplates that by
January 2005, the Institute will only cover deposits up to 400,000 UDIs (Investment
Units), about 120,000 dollars for physical or moral person in the same institution.
One of the main functions of the Institute is to analyze, design and implement the
financial support that it provides to banking institutions, by itself or by request from the
CNBV (Banking and Securities Commission), with the objective of providing liquidity
and/or achieve the strengthening of the institutions that require it, with the aim of
protecting savers and contribute to the stability and confidence in the Mexican financial
system, through transparent management and supervision of the programs for the
protection of savings and of financial strengthening.
Strengthening of Contractual Obligations in the Financial System. With the aim to
strengthen contractual obligations in the financial system, a number of reforms were
made to the Commercial Reorganization and Bankruptcy Act, and to guarantee aspects of
the General Law of Titles and Credit Operations, the Commercial code and the Credit
Institutions Law, all approved in May 2000.
* Strengthening of the regulatory framework of the financial system
In September 1999, the financial system authorities (CNBV and SHCP) announced a
program of regulatory reforms of the financial system to strengthen the capitalization of
the banks and promote greater transparency of financial activities. These reforms have
contributed substantially to a greater capitalization of the banks operating in the country.
* New program of financial reforms
Legal Reforms. In early April 2001, the new federal administration submitted to the
General Congress, for its consideration, a package of new laws and reforms to existing
laws in the financial area, which in its entirety constitutes a more advanced stage of the
financial reform program. At the end of April 2001, before the end of its ordinary
sessions, Congress approved several of the submitted initiatives. The new program of
financial reforms has the following objectives:
* Increase the proportion of internal savings channeled through the financial system.
*  Promote long term popular savings.
*  Promote credit schemes that attend all sectors, particularly popular sectors.
*  Promote competition among financial intermediaries.
* Strengthen the structures of corporate governance of the financial institutions and
public issuers.
*  Protect the interests of minority investors.
* Strengthen regulation and supervision of the financial system.
* Create a national society for the promotion of mortgage lending, with the aim to
promote credit for housing in the country.
43



Organic Law of the National Savings and Financial Services Bank. This law
establishes the National Savings Bank as a national credit and development institution,
focused on the reinforcement of popular savings and the institutions that provide it.
Law of Investment Companies (Mutual Funds). This law creates a new approach to
the regulation of investment companies, establishing new rules in the corporative
government of these institutions, and broadening the range of assets in which they can
invest, and allowing the subcontracting of some services. These reforms aim to increase
public access to the financial market.
Amendment to the Securities Market Law. The approved modifications aim to protect
the right of minority shareholders through improvements in the corporative governance
of the issuers, defending in a more effective way their rights, and requiring that
information be made public in an understandable format. The amendment reinforces the
articles concerning crimes of abuse of privileged information.
Law of Savings and Popular Credit, and amendments to the General Law of
Organizations and Auxiliary Credit Activities and to the General Law of
Cooperative Societies. The objective of these amendments is to stimulating public
savings, particularly of small savers, and to adequately regulate and supervise popular
savings entities.
Amendments to the Credit Institutions Law and to the Law to Regulate Financial
Groups. These reforms will allow: (i) the introduction of better corporative practices
that will result in benefit of minority investors, workers of the institutions, bond holders
and, most of all, their clients; (ii) the establishment of a more appropriate regime for the
different banking operations, which, among other things, will allow the banks to offer a
wider range of services and products; and (iii) the definition of measures to strengthen the
quality of supervision and preventive corrective action; giving the external auditor an
increasingly relevant role in the supervisory work, providing a better definition to the
vocation of each of the financial authorities, widening their level of responsibilities and
reducing the costs that regulation imposed to the intermediaries and though them to the
bank clients.
Regulatory Reforms. The continuous effort of the CNBV to strengthen the regulatory
framework of the financial sector are reflected in the projects of secondary regulatory
reform that are being developed as autonomous initiatives or as a result of the legal
modifications approved by Congress. The program of regulatory reforms include the
following:
Internal controls. The objective of this new regulation consists in the establishment of
the minimum requirements that the institutions need to adopt in the different processes of
their operations; measures that generate an adequate segregation of functions, periodic
processes of auditory, management and generation of trustworthy and timely information,
as well as compliance with the existing laws, among others.
44



Classification of the commercial porfolio of development banks. The new regulation
will provide the methodology for the classification of the commercial portfolio of the
development banks, in parallel to the regulations that apply to private banks.
Asset diversification. There is a plan to modify the Rules of Asset Diversification with
the objective of meeting international standards. The main changes are the establishment
of a clear definition of common risk groups and the redefinition of the limits to exposure
to counterpart risk to 15 percent of the basic capital of the institutions.
Control of the risk of the banking operations via internet. This project is geared to the
establishment of management guidelines for the administration of the operative risks
faced by private banks in their banking operations via internet.
Credit Bureau. Work is being done in a project to modify the existing regulation to
provide the banks with more freedom of action with respect to the use of the information
contained in the Bureau's reports.
External auditors. Work is being done to update the information requested to the
external auditors, particularly with respect to the scope and quality of the reports that they
present to the CNBV. The former with the aim to make better use of the work of the
external auditors, as well as to strengthen the relationship between them and the
supervisors. The regulation will make more transparent the audit results.
Bank Restructuring and Resolution Program. IPAB is in the process of completing
the process of restructuring and resolution of the banks affected by the 1994/1995 crisis.
Among the bank strengthening operations that the Institute is currently carrying out are:
the sale of Bancrecer (the fifth financial group in Mexico), the conclusion of the
operation with Bank of Atantico, and the resolution of the banks intervened by the
CNBV.
The cost involved in the resolution of these pending operations demands considerable
resources, for which the institute has access to the following sources of funds:
* Budgetary resources that allow it to maintain its debt constant in real terms;
* A share of the income from the deposit insurance quotas paid by the banks;
* Administration and sale of the assets subject to the LPAB, from which the
Institute tries to recuperate the highest possible amount; and
* Contracting of loans or issuing of securities to exchange or refinance its financial
obligations.
IPAB's liabilities' management strategy has allowed it to comply adequately with its
obligations, reduce their cost, and improve the profile of its maturity. Among the
instruments to achieve these improvements are mainly: (i) weekly issues of Bonds for the
Protection of Bank Savings (BPAs); (ii) long term loans from financial institutions with
better conditions with respect to interest rates and maturities; (iii) sale of assets and
45



shareholding participations; and (iv) refinancing and prepayment of the most expensive
debts.
The loan being sought from the World Bank would help IPAB to finance part of the
service of its debt that results from the financial strengthening programs which the
institute is carrying out, and from the resolution of the banks intervened by the CNBV.
Below is a summary of the situation of the main lines of action of the ongoing operations:
Bancrecer. IPAB has concluded the restructuring of Bancrecer, and expects to be able to
initiate, in the next few weeks, the formal process of selling the institution for which
several participants, both national and foreign, have expressed interest in participating.
Atldntico. Since the Institute initiated its operations, it has worked with the rest of the
financial authorities and Bital to analyze and agree on diverse alternatives that would
allow the conclusion of the operation in the light of Article 9th transitory of the LPAB,
considering three fundamental aspects: transparency, sustainability and legality.
Liquidation of seven banks intervened by the CNBV IPAB has the ownership or has in
guarantee the shares of seven banks intervened by the CNBV, which due to their
financial situation will be liquidated: Cremi, Union, Oriente, Obrero, Capital, Interestatal,
and Pronorte. Both IPAB and the CNBV have agreed on a mechanism for the liquidation
of these banks which no longer operate as banking institutions. The agreed mechanism
contemplates the following measures:
* Assumption by IPAB of these banks' liabilities. Currently, in terms of the LPAB,
IPAB has assumed the liabilities of Cremi and Uni6n;
*  Cancellation of the debts of these banks in the inter-bank market;
* Revocation of the authorization of these banks to incorporate and operate as
banking institutions by the SHCP; and
*  Liquidation of the banks by IPAB acting as liquidator of the institutions.
Both IPAB and the CNBV, and the rest of the authorities, coincide with the necessity to
solve as soon as possible the situation of the intervened banks. Therefore, it is expected
that the revocation of the banking license of each of the seven banks and their liquidation
will take place in the next few months. Also, IPAB and the CNBV are in the process of
agreeing on a mechanism for the resolution of the other three intervened banks (Sureste,
Industrial and Anahuac), which still operate as credit institutions.
The Federal Government assigns great importance to the conclusion of the resolution of
the banks affected by the 1994/1995 crisis. With this objective, it has supported IPAB to
allow it to meet its mandate, support that will be continued as established in the LPAB,
by channeling to the Institute in the next few years, the budgetary transfers that it requires
to meet its obligations.
46



V.    Support from the World Bank
The above summary description demonstrates our commitment with a strong program of
financial sector reforms and with the resolution of the banks that remain undercapitalized
and insolvent. We consider that financial help of the World Bank as a valuable tool in
this process of financial sector reforms.
The Subsecretary,
Agustin Carstens
47



48



06/01/01  15:53   WB LRCSR 202 522 3698 4 202 522 1639                  NO.673 P002/010
mSY-3i-2001 i8:O0  DE:                                       A:9001202522106     P:2
SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y
CRIDITO PUBLICO
102-B-265
MhixICD. F., 31 de mayo de 200?.
1ACXWA 1 cBzwTo PtIIX
Sr. Jmes D. Wolfensohn
Presidewte
Baoo Mundial
Washingn, DC 20433
USA
Apreciado Sr. Wolfnsohn;
Esta caita de poltica de dea.TolIo SGtorial deAcribe Ws condiciones econWmicas
actuales de M6xico y el connuw oSfuerzo qua el Goblemo estA fievando a cabo
pars Impulsar 1a reforna del eetor tinanciera, con el prop6alto d resolver los
tamas pendientes resutantes de la sewa crss bencarla de 1994o1995. Con las
acciones propuestas se buSca aewr f condicnes noeasrias para que el sector
financiero contribuya an farina oclent al financiamiento del crecimiento
ewn6mico. En sate marco, el Gobbmo soicita el apoyo financiero del tBnco
Mundial para IiBvar a Cabo las refinas y tedudr 106 sesi fisceles asociados.
.   EntomaMlecroeconmnico
El desempefio de la activdad con6mica duranto el afto 2000 super6
sustancalmrente los pron1sticos 0rigirales do crecimiento.  Eeta evolucin
favorable cont6 con la inftuenia posiiva4d factoreg tanto inlemos como extrns,
quo coadyuvaron a impnmr ui fuere inpuiso a ia dirAmics produozva. Caomo
resultado, el Producto Intemo BruAo (PIS) cuci6 alrededor del 8.9 par ciento.
acainzando 1a cfiu mns aft ds ka iOtimoa veinte aslls. Este reaultdo se Vi6
favorecido por el desempeflo de 18 acdvidades del seor senvicls e industrial,
[as CUal  crogleron a tasas  uales de 7A y 8.8 par cknto, en t6uinto reales.
respectivaunnte. La expansi6n de l actdad ptoductiva en el pasado reciente
ha venldo acompaflada per un abstimiento gradual de l Inflci6n, is eua tras
haber 1le9ado a mis del 50 p*r clent anual a mediados de la d6cad. de lo1
noventb, en of aVfo 2000 bajo al nivel de 9 par cianto.



06/01/01  15:53   WB LRCSA 202 522 3698 4 202 522 1639                  NO.673 P003/±
MAY-31-2001 18:09  DE                                        A - 901202S222106    P:3
CH1
,s,-M                        SUB ECRETARL& DE HACIENOA Y
CR*.DITO PUBUCO
A                       tw~~~~~~~~04326S
6RWATAMU
KaE ItY CiEWO PJUCO
Duranbt el aft 2000 eI comportamiento de las fmanzas piblicas estuvo
deteminado por el compaortm1nt favoable de los precios intemrionales del
petrdleo y el dinarnismo de b activMad econ6mica. Ambos factoes pennlieron
obtener Ingresos pi1blicos por encima de foe prramados. En la aplicaw6n de los
recursos adicornales con que cont6 el Goblemo Federal sobresat la consttucl6n
del Fondo de Ertabilizaci6n de los Ingresos Peroleros (FEP) y Is amorfizaoi6n de
obligaclones dellvadas de Is progama do apayo a deudore., por 9,133 y 6.500
rnillones de pesos, respecUvanento.
Para aumrntar Ja efencisa y tranmpaurncti del ejrctio pObilio se contlnuW con el
prceso de descentralizac*n de las eegacnomu. La descntraiIzacd6n del gasto
p(iblico transfiers a las enddades fedoratvas y municrplas responsabilidades y
mayores recursos para responder de manera mas efciente a las demandas de la
poblac16n. facilitar una niejor rendici6n do cuenas de los ditintos 6rdenes de
gobiemo y  rcar la gestin p6blica a la ciudadaana. Al mismo tiempo el gasto
ocial mantuvo su tayeoctoria ascendente con un crcimiento de 9.5 por clonto
anual y se orient6 hadca Aoes prlorltaras como educaci6n, salud, usguridad social
y seguridad piblica. Eats rcursms sa canalkamn a pretar sewick:a a ta
pablacl6n en geneal, y al conbats de la pcbrea extrnma.
Las expaciatvas de crecimeito econ6mnico para el aflo 2001 estan simndo
afectadas negatlvaments por el desaecmml onto Oconmlco en los Eslados
Unldos, nuestro principal sodo comercial. Las proyecciones do crecmiento del PIs
Para el afo 2001 se ubican en un rango entre 2.5 y 3.0 por ciento. Sin embargo,
tenems conflanz   en que la   stratge  eon6miaa odentads, ente aIres
aspecas, a apoyar el crcimiento de Is competiidad de las empresas
productivas y at f1oulOcimlento del sistema tinanciero -pafcuamefnte a travis de
una recuperaci6n del cr6di. al sectr prhdad y manoes lasas de interds-
ocasianarg quo la econamfa cresra de manars sostenids, se fa6rit el acJo a
serviclos financiers, se estimule la Invaral6n, se cron empeo, se PromU0Van
salaros mis clovadas y se redca la pobma. 'Todo illo en un contexto de
estabilldad macroeonomica y de precs.
11. Programsa d Refomas Financieras
El programs de reformas financleas del C-ibmeno Feders se puode conoebir en
vaias etapas. Una otaps, iniciada a finales &o 1898, en la quo so tomaron argunls
medidas encaminadas a fortalacerel sistea finunciero seialmente afctado par 1s
eriss de 1994J1005. Enre Nsa mdidas deo poltks mOs inportant*& qwe a. han
apucado se pueden mencionar las slgulontes:
2



06/01/01  15:53   WB LRCSR 202 522 3698 4 202 522 1639                 NO.673 P004/010
M,9Y-31-2EM1 18-09  DE:                                      A: 9S12Z5222a10G    P: 4
,61.1
SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y
CR.DITO PUBlUCO
102-5.265
HWhi& Y awzro rPuc
RWbfonn  de/ moo legal pam moJwr las incntfrsaon ol SawtD
fnancloro.
Adopd6rn de un siswema de seguro do depsito limitado. El H. Congreso de la
Uni6n aprab6 eJ 31 de diciembra de 1990 la Lay de Prctscci6n at Ahorro Bancauio
(LPA8), In cual entr6 en vigor a patir del 20 de enerD de 1099. En dlb soe autoriza
ls ae aci6r del tnsdtM   para la Protaci6n al Ahoro Banlcaro (IPAB) coma bi
insfitci6n encrgada de estabtocertas bass y administar un nuevo Sistema de
Seguro de Dep6sitos, rgido por Ln maco regulatorto expilcito y daro de
paticipacl6n obligatoda pam las instuciaones de bano mtiltipI y quo bojo un
proceso de reduoci6n gradual mantendre una cobertura limitada y explicits de los
dep&dos de los ahorradores.
En el marmo do la LPAB, el IPAB tiene dos objetios pnncipales: (i) proporcionar a
las instituciones de banca mORipls un stem  pars Ia pratecci6n al ahOrro
bancario quo garantice el pago On 1bfrm2 utidiada y Imbnda de las obigaciones
garanti2adas a cargo de dichas instion.s. y (UI) sdmlnistrar lao programas de
saneamlento financlero que fomiule y siecute en baneficto de los shorradore9 y
uwuarios de las Instltciones de banca mWtiple y en sovaguarda dol -i.stuna
nacional de pagos. Raspecto al prmr punto la iy contrnpta quo para onero del
2005 el Instituto solo cubrir dep6sits de hasta 400,000 UDIs (Unidades de
Inversi6n), aproximadamente 120,000 d6lafes, por peisona flsice o moral a cargo
de una misma insttuci6n.
Una de las principabes funcioes del Insftfuto os la de analizar. disefiar e
instrunrntar las apoyos financeros que atorgue a las insbtitonrs de bana
miltiple, por 5f o a solidtud do la CNBV, cuya finaidad sea proeer de l;quldez ylo
procumr el sansamlonto de lat Intitucion quo lo requisran con el *bato de
prteger a los ahorradores y contbuir a la astablidad y confianza del Sistema
Flnancoir* MxC ano, a traveg de una administracAn y supeisld6n Iraperonte do
Io programas de protei6n el ahwro-y.de sarwamlento financiero.
Foiteiecimento de los de,echos contractuales en a1 sasemn flonWof. Con el
objetivo de fortalecer los derechos contractuales en el Sistama Financiem se
realizaron una sare de refomas a la Lay de Concursos Mercantles y
modificaclonee en matwa de garantl a is Lay General de Titulos y Operaiones
de Crfdito, al C6digo de Comercio y la Ley de Instituciones de Crdito. We cualks
fueron aprobedas an mayo de 2000.
3



6/oi8/o1  15:54  LJB Lpc6F; 202 522 3696 4 202 522 1639                 NO.G73 P005/010
PIS
MA1Y-31-2001 18:11  DE:
tI)
Ji-M                         SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y
91                              CRtOITO PUBLICO
102-B-265
SCRgTAI4A
:BET
i(CAco V OmDto PtaICO
* Fo,ta(eclmier4  e Sm ro regwulato Eel slatama nancIei
En septiembre de 1999 las autoridades del sitma financisro (CNSV y SHCP)
anunciaron un progama da refomss regulatorlas pam fortateewr la captafizaci6n
de bs bancos y promover mayor transparencla n las atdades financderas.
Estas refrnmas han contribuldo en fomna sfgnltva a una mayor capitlizadi6n
de los bancos quo opean en el pals.
* Niuevo Progrwma de R*efmas FInenckie&
Rafornw  Lqgaes. A priniplos de abri de 2001 Is nueva administroi6n fedefal
present6 a considerari6n del Congreo de la Uni6n un paquete de nuevas [eyes y
mtOlmas a ley  exoitent.s an el 4mbito finmniero quo en W conjunto fioman una
epa tnAs avanzada del programa de refhnna financiera. A fines de abril do 2W1,
antes d concluir la sesiones ardinarias. el Congreso aprob6 varias de las
iniciatvas presontadas. El nuvow programs de r Bfoas financieras tons los
sigLlantes objetivos:
* Incrementa la poparein de ahoto intro canralizdo a tmv6s del sistema
financiero.
* Promover el ahorro popular de la'9o plazo.
* lmpulsar esquemas de er6dito qua ationdan a todas los eores. en patiubar,
el popular.
a Fomentar Is competeci ontre intemediwrics fiances.
* Foialecer lam sstvucrus de gobirno corpmato v    o las Ilnstuclonas
financiras y amleoras ptiblicas.
* Proteger Jos interews de inversionistes ninorianoe.
* Roforzar la suparvii6n y regulaci6n del sistoma iinanciero.
* Crar una sodedad nacional de fomonto hipotecrano con el objeto do estirnmor
el cr6dito a la viviertda en el pals,
Las leyes y reformas aprobadas son (as alguiente:
L.y Organlca Ee Danceo ddl AMotm Nsetonal y ServIoios Finenciero  Esta
lay estblece of Banco del Ahorfo Naconal como uns inWtitucft n8cionai de
crd4ito y desarrollo enfocada a reforr of ahcaro popular y laE lnsgthcknes quo la
otorgar,
4



06/01/01  15:54   WB LACSA 202 522 3698 > 202 522 1639                    NO.673 P006/010
a:92125aa126        P 
rIY-31-2001 18:11  DE:
SUBSECRETARUA DE MACGNDA Y
IRC0DITO PUSLICO
102&.26S
DE
Lay de S9dG*daS dm Invera6n. Eata lay cree un nuevo enfoque en la
reguacidn do las socledades de invwrsibn establecendo nuevse regla6 an el
oblemo corpTOatio do oas isituclbnes. amplfa lhs aYctO en los qua puede
invordir y permfte la subcontratac6n de atQuno servicios. Estas retorma buscan
ampWlar el acceso del pblico al mir do financlero.
ReOrm la   t Ie y dl Hroado de Valuim     Ls modiflcacinos aprobadas
bucan la proteccif  do l  deIOBa de acclantas minorltarios a trav6s de
mejorar el gobiemo cOrparat4aO deo lu omlso, dslendiondo de manera  mis
efectiva sus derathos y requmerndo quo la Infarmael se haga publica en un
fowmagt cornpmnsible. Se refuerOn log etUflos relwente a delitos par abuso do
informacl6n privilegiada.
Loy de Ahwno y Cek         Popwalr y rsfoms al a    Ley &    eral de
OMwizwiones y Aefldado Auwiliarw do Crdto y        l a Loy aG.r'l de
Soeehdo     CooperaUa& Es tas modftaclonm dlnen como objsvo easimular
el ehorra. en especial el de pequeofts sheradams y de egular y supervisar
debidamente las enidades de ahom populr.
Rohnma a la Loy de lnsffitdons de C     tidlo ya Is Ley pa  Regular I
Agapacknos FlnmndeAs. Estas modfiaciones permiiirin: i) la lntroduccl6n de
mores prfcticas corporavas laf cuales redumdan en bensficlo de los accionistas
mninoritarlos, de Ice tmbjadores de la instcu6rn, de lo tenedores de eus bonos y
sobre todo de sue usua; ii) el stbeinmiwnto do un rgimern mni adecuado
pare las diferentes opercones barcarias quo, ene otras  sas. permita a los
buncos ohfecr una game m*s ampli. de seNCiQos y productos; y, iii) la defink;i6n
de medidas quo pormitan refoar la caliad de la supervisi6n y correccifn
preventva, que en las labos d supeMsifn el auditor extemo juegue un pal
cads vex mbs relevante, y quo cada vez quede mejor definida Is vweci6n de cads
una do lot autoridades flnanclras, anptando au nivel de resorilabitcad y
reduciendo Ws costos qua to regulacin imponla a lo inirmoedmrlo y a su vez a
10s usuaulo0 de la banca.
Rfonnas Rogulatoha. El cotinuo efuuzo do la CNBV para fotaleu el
marco regulat  del sistema flnarxcl a   ve reftjado en los pmyectoa a nfial de
rulaid6n secundari qua satin siondo desanlaos como iliclativa aut6nome a
com  resuftado de las modiricadones lega. aprobadas par el Congreso. El
programs de reformas gulatorias induys las aiguiene:
s



06/01/i3  15:55   WB LUCSR 202 522 3698 4 2022 163                      NO.67      '010
MAY-31-l8I 1B:14  OE:
GKt
,8,^4,,                 8UBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y
CReDITO PUBLICO
w y                    ~~~~~~~~102-8.65
DE
Conftles inemos. E objetivo do h numva vegulacl6n consist en astablecar
requerlmentos minimos paM qua la instltucines adopten, en los distintos
procosos do Su Operscl6n, medido quo goneren una adecuada segregacin de
funckon, pmOc0 pMefdiwa do auditona, man*o y generaci6n de infomrrdn
confiable y oportuna, asl co= GI apeo a las lByes y regulaclones vigentes. ntr
otras.
CaIffkaci6n do la carera corecIa de is banca de desawffvII.  La nueva
raguloci6n proveeri las mr dologla de cal,efacl6n de la cartora comerU pars
los bancos de desarillo en fowna paralea a Ws regulacons quo be aplican a los
banoos pnvados.
OlJvrsif4aidn de Aclw. So piensa modicar las Reglas do Divemificl6n de
Activos con el objetivo de adecuasles a lbs satindares lntemacionass. Como
principals coinbsB Seatab4c una dara defilni6n, de grupos de nasgo comrnn y
so propone medofmr los l1mits de exposict6n al ribsgo de contrapafe a un 15%
del capital b6sico de Ias instituciones.
Cont,l dl Riosgo de las Opecfones Bancries par Inrant Este proyacto de
ragulaci6n esti enoaminado a astablcer llneamientoB de adrnhIsad6n del
resego operatwo quo enfrentan os bancas derivado de aus oporaionse bancariWd
porinteret.
Bwii do Cddft. So oath trabsiando en un pfayecto de modificacibn a la
reqilaci6n existente para torgar a las banco mayor lltad de eci6n en cuanto
at uso do la inhfmscln contsnida on los reportos de cr6dlto del Bur6.
AudiaOres extemos. Se est6 trabajando en actualizor I  requerimontos de la
lnformacd6n que so so Wicia a Ica auditares ext*rnos prlncipalmente en lo quo
rspwda al secance y calidad dc los infoms que preentmn a la CtBV. Lo
anterior, a fin de hacor un maJor uso del trabajo defsmpeflado por los audtorts
exmsrnos, asl coma para fortalkcer la reacf6n on"re Co  y in supeisores. La
reaulacl6n harb m8s tranBparentes [lo resultadoa de las auditorias.
P,grma de RestructuPjrao      y Resafucln BmcartL    El IPAL est6 en
procso de comple    l l procso de reestiucturai6n y rduci6nr de los bancos
afecados por la crisis de 1994/1995. Er  la& opamCioneS de saneaiento quo
actualmrnte se estAn Ibvando a cabo por part del lntiMo, se encuentrmn: la
venta do Barbeiscor (od quinto grupo flnorcisro de Mx*a), la conclUsiOn de In
6



06/01/B1 15:55    WB LFiCSA 202 52 3698 4 202 522 1639                 NO. 673 POS/010
18:19  DE:  A:1 825222106  P:8
rmpY-:\1-23131 18:19  DE'
oum-                         SUSCCRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y
CREDro PUBLCo
102.BL265
OE
NArCEXA V mITOQ PIUCO
opaci6n de Banco del Atlintico y 1i resoluci6i de los bancos ntervenidos par ia
CNBV
El costO que impUca la reoohcWn de esta op@racones pandlentes requiere
nunerosos recusos. para Io cuat of Inttuto cuenta cm las uivientes fuentes de
fondeo:
* Recusos prupuesales con ot prop&sto de cantenar su douda constante en
tbnminos reales;
* una praporcln de los igresos quo obtiene por el pago de las cotas de
seguro de depbsito quo cubrun in inslcblne;
ecursos provenient de to administracl6n y ventB de los acvos sujetos a la
LPAB y de los cuaes so buscrb abtener el myor valor de ecupereci6n
posibto, V
* contrataci6n de cr6dm o emisn de vators pas canjoear  refinanctar sus
obligaclones financieas.
La estategia de admlistracl6n de pasivos del Inutiuto, Il ha permitido cumptir de
maners oportuna con sus obl,gacions, reducir el cota de lIs misnas y mejorar el
perlil de au vencimiento. Entre los instnxnentos para logrado, sw oncuentan
pncipatmente: MI) colacac6n sunanal de Bones de Protcci6n al Ahowro (5PAt);
(i) contratc6n de prnstnm  can inttuclones firanderas quo ofrecon meijOfs
condicoes en cuanto a tas y paza;, fii) venta de acivos y pafticipacsones
acconarias; y (iv) refinandamtonto y prepago de in obligaciones mas onerosas.
El prstamo quo as e    ges"tionando con el BSco Mundial ayudur6 at IPAB a
financlar parte del senncio de su deuda resultafnt de los programas de
sarneam(onto financisro quo en Is actuulided ll1 a eaba el Instiftuo y de la
resoluciOn de los Bancs Intvnidos par la CNBV.
A continuaci6n ae mencona is aituait6n y las principales lness de accidn de las
Opecionas en proceso:
BenCrecr. El IPAB ha condluido Is reeMmucWIra6n oprativa dO BanCrecet y se
espera en las pr6ximns somanas iniclar a) prco formal do venta de la insftcln
en el quo vaOis parfiipantes tanto nacionates corno xrnjeos han exprsado
inter6s en paricipar.
7



06/01/01 15:56    WE LQCS5 202 522 3698 4 202 522 1639                 NO.673 P009/010
2.~~~~~~~~  O~~~~~~~~               R 90120  5222106P:
MAY-3X-em    s 1@ 9  OE.:&
GiLl
el odw,s                     SU8SECRETARIA DE MACIENDA Y
CRrDTTO PuBLICo
102-L265
SEOTARNA
1ICEW Y OIfgTr #W.
Aico. Dae quo e     Insteurt ini6 opersiones as ha trabaiado conjuntamonts
con el resnt de las autoridades flnanieres y BOs peara anaor y acordar divenas
aotematvas que psmutan concluir esta cpmc6n a la ke de to estaWecido par eo
ArUculo Noveno Trunsiwtoa de la LPAB. considurando tras aspectos
fundamentates: tranqparencia, susUntabiald y legaridad.
Uquidecftn do s1e0 bancos interenids par lia CNBV. El IPAB tene is titularidad o
detert en garantla las acciones de lte de os bancos intervelnldas por la CNBV
que por su sltus6n financira proed a liqulider Creii UniOn. Orients. Obrero,
Capial, Interestatal y Proriart. Taifloel IPAB como la CNBV trabajan
conjuntamente en un mcnima de liquidaci6n de esto bonws quo ye no opermn
como lnstituciones de crdito. El mecnisma onterplai las 6siulentes medidas.
* Asunci6n par parte del IPAS de Ice pasvo de stos bancos. Actualmento y en
tfnminos de la LPAB. el IPAB ha asumido Ia pasivos de Cinmi y Unlin;
* Concalaci6n de las deudas que ls bncos tienon an e metcedo inter-banaiao;
* Revoced6n de las autorizaelones para contituirme y operw cono infstituci8e
de banca multiple por parft de In SHCP, y,
* UquWdaci6n de los banc= por oe IPAB actuando coma liquidador de ls
inst"uclorns.
El IPAB y la ONBV, asi como las demnis autaridad&s coinciden en la necesidad do
reolver a la brovedad la situcf6n de la banca Itervenida. Por tanto, 3e Ospera
quo en los pr6xlmos mesa so prcoda a la revocacl6n de las autorizaciones de
cada uno de estos aisle banos y a su liqudaci6n. Asimlumo. a) IPAB y la CNBV
estin en proceso de acoar un mecanlsmo pars resolver la sbtad6n de los otrob
t   bancows intNenidos (Suete, fnduntgil y An6husc) quo todaVia operan como
instuclones de crEdIto.
El Gobiwo Federal considera de gran importandsa que e con iuya Il resoluci6n
de lo& baneo afectados durante la cris de 199U1995. Con egs cjetith, ha
apoyado al IPAB para quo pueda cumplir con au coetido. apoyo quo ee
mantendr* conforms la estableco a propla LPAB con in eanallzacis6 al Instihtto de
ls transfrcias presupuestadas que requiem durant hs pr&Wm  asos para
cunmlir con sus obligaciones.



06/01/01  15:56    B LCS 2    522 2028                 AS 202 522 1639  1p3 P0
MIY-w-09B1 18:20   DE:
CG.l
qf".                          SU5SECRETARIA DE KAEIENDA Y
el 3k                           CRZ  TO PUBLICO
102-8-255
DE
V. Apoyo del Banco Mundial
La sinopsis antes deschfta demuestra nuestro compmniso can un s6lido prgrama
do reformas del sector finsnclro y con la resoluci6n de los bancoas que
pemisnewn descapitalizdos e Insovontao. Cociwdemrns la ayuda finmnaera
del Banco lMundal una herramfents valiosa an este pracso de reforma del sector
financiero.
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECON
El Subecretarlo,
A _






ANNEX IV
Asset Disposal Program
PROGRAMS                                            Estimated         Expected        TIMING
Value             Recovery in
_____________________________________  MXP billion     2001
I. MORTGAGE AND CONSUMER PORTFOLIO                                                     Q1 01
(Direct Sales)
Mortgages and consumer loans of Intervened Banks
and Meseta Serfin
Subtotal                                            5.4               17%
II. INTERVENED BANKS
Package I (commercial)                                             20%              Q201
Package 2 (commercial)                                             20%              Q3 01
Package 3 (commercial)                                             20%              Q4 01
Package 4 (commercial)                                             20%              Q4 01
Subtotal                                             3.7
III. FINANCIAL REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
Banco Mexicano (commercial)                      4.2                                Q2 01
Banca Promex-BBV (commercial)                    2.5                                Q3 01
Banco del Atantico (commercial)                  4.9                                Q3 01
Banpais-Bancen (commercial)                       8.3                               Q4 01
Subtotal                                            19.9
IV. ADMINISTRATORS UNDER SUPERVISION
Administrators
Trusts (Fideicomisos)
Subtotal
V. REAL ESTATE AND OTHER ASSETS
Subtotal
VI. OTHER RECOVERY OPERATIONS
TOTAL ASSETS RECOVERY PROGRAM                        29.0              5.6            _
49



50



ANNEX V
Mexico at a glance                                                                    8125/2000
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.   income      Development dlamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       97.4       509       573                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   4,410     3,840     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, USS billins)                      429.6     1,955     2,811                          l
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population I%)                                         1.7       1.8       1.4
Labor force (%)                                        3.0       2.5       2.1     GNP                                 Gross
per                   -           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                              capita                          enrollment
Poverty (% of populaton below national poverty line)
Urban population ({ of total population)               74         75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72         70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               30         31        27
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)              ..         8         7                   Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)      83         75        78
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      9        12        10
Gross prmary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    114       113       109                 Mexico
Male                                                116          ..       ..                - Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               113         ..       ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998       1999     Economic rtloe
GDP (USS billions)                          134.5    223.0     416.3     483.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                26.0     22.9      24.3      23.2
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            11.2     19.0      30.8      30.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   24.7     22.9      22.3      21.9
Gross national savings/GDP                   21.7     20.3      20.5      20.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.1     -2.6      -3.9      -2,9    , Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         2.5      3.5       2.4       1.7                                     Investment
Total debtGDP                                31.8     42.1      38.4      34.0      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                   72.4     32.9      19.2      24.6
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..      37.4      33.0
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..     111.5     100.4
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999    1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.3      2.9      4.8       3.7       4.9                   Mexico
GNP per capita                      -0.9      1.1      3.1       2.5       3.2                   Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        8.4     13.6     12.0      13.9       7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investmnent and GDP I%)
(X of GDP)                                                                         40
Agriculture                                   9.8      7.8        5.3       5.0
Industry                                     33.4     29.4      28.5      28.2     20
Manufacturing                              22.7     21.9       21.3      21.1      0
Services                                     56.7     62.9      66.3      66.8    -20                           97     98     99
Private consumption                          64.4     68.9      67.3      68.0     40
General govemment consumption                10.9      8.3      10.4       10.0                       GDI    -     G-OP
Imports of goods and servlces                12.5     19.1      32.8      32.0
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   1.2      1.7       0.8        3.5    30
Industry                                      0.9      3.5       6.3       3.8     15
Manufacturing                                1.1     4.0        7.3       4.1
Services                                      1.8      2.7       4.5       3.6      o  -     -                        -
94     55     5      97     98    99
Private consumption                           1.4      2.2       5.5       4.3    -15
General govemment consumption                 3.1      1.7       2.2       1.0
Gross domestic investment                    -4.3      4.3       9.5       1.5     -0
Imports ofgoods and services                 -1.1     11.9      16.5      12.8               E'pods            2   Imports
Gross national product                        1.2      2.9       4.8       4.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
51



ANNEX V
Page 2
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1979     1989      1998      1999     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       40 .
Consumer prces                                ..     20.0      15.9     16.7    30
Implicit GDP deflator                       19.6     26.5      15.4     15.9    20
Government finance                                                               1o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                               ..     25.8      20.4     20.7            94    95    96    97    9B    99
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.8       2.1      1.7   1              GDP defator  C   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..     -4.6      -1.2     -1.1   |
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979     1989      1998      1999     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  35,171   117,460  136,391     s00.000
Oil                                         ..    7,876     7,134     9,928
Agriculture                                 ..    1,754     3,797     3,926    _00 
Manufactures                                ..   24,936   106,062   122,085                        -
Total imports (cif)                            .   34,766   125,373  141,975          i   i_.I            f   l   I
Consumer goods                              ..    3,499    11,109    12,175     90,000 
Intermediate goods                           ..  26,499    96,935   109,270
Capital goods                               ..    4,769    17,329    20,530        0
Export price index (1995=100)                  ,      96        95        98            93  94   95   9f   97  9B   99
Import price index (1995=100)                         89       100        99                a Exports     Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..     108        94        99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1979     1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             15,131  42,362    128,982  148,083     o
Imports of goods and services             16,704  42,426    137,801  155,465
Resource balance                          -1,573      -63    -8,818   -7,382    -2
Net income                                -4,111   -8,302   -13,284  -13,083
Netcurrenttransfers                         131    2,544      6,012    6,313     41     1
Current account balance                   -5,553   -5,821   -16,090  -14,153
Financing items (net)                      5,868    6,093    18,227   14,746
Changes in net reserves                     -315    -272     -2,137     -594
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        ..    6,376    29,032   31,829
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)         2.3E-02      2.5       9.2      9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      42,765   93,826   159,962  164,532
IBRD                                     1,731    7,821    11,514   10,804                      A: 10,804
IDA                                         0        0         0         0          G: 30 C*53
D. 6.,119
Total debt service                        11,591   15,559    26,778   39,072                                  E 5,269
IBRD                                      221     1,245     2,024    2,171                                  E:5.-- 
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                            27       37        32        ..
Official creditors                        284      936      -776     -1,262
Prvate creditors                         3,798   -2,397    12,219    6,308
Foreign direct investment                1,332    3,037    10,238   11,568
Portfolio equity                            0        0       730     3,769
F: 107,101
Worid Bank program
Commitments                               527     2,325     2,212    1,616     A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                             326     1,297     1,283      839     B - IDA   D - Other mulblateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                       76      677      1,257    1,326     C- IMF                     G - Short-temrn
Net flows                                 250      620        26      -487
Interest payments                         145      567       767       846
Net transfers                              105      52      -741     -1,332
Development Economics                                                                                           812512000
52



ANNEX VI
CAS Annex B8 - Mexico
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 05e1t82001
Closed Projects     160
IBRDIIDA 
Total D,sbursed (Active)    2,354.60
ofwhich has been repaid  82.10
Total D,sbursed (Closed)    24,071.00
ot whth tas been repaid  17,331. 80
Total Disbursed (Active . Closed)  26,425.63
ofrwhich has been repaid  17,463.93
Total Undisbursed (Active)  2,651.08
Total Undisbursed (Cloed)   1.53
Total Undisbursed (Active C Closed)  2.652 61
Active Protects                                                                                                                                                           Dilfference Between
Last PSR                                                                                                     Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                                        Original Amount in USS Millons                           Disbursements"
Project ID                  Project Name              Development   Imolementation    Fiscal Year           IBRD              IDA         GRANT           Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig. Frm Rev d
Obiectives      Prooiress
P048505                     AGRICULTURAL PRODUC S                         S             1999                444.4              0              0                0     250.3      59.5        0
P060718                     ALTERNATIVE ENERGY     S                      S             2000                   0               0              0                0       7.3       2.9        0
P007726                     AQUACULTURE            U                      U             1997                   0               0              0                0        0         0         0
P007700                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY S                          S             1997                  15               0              0                0       6.6       3.2        0
P064887                     DISASTER MANAGEMENT#                                        2001                 404               0              0                0      404          0        0
P070479                     Edo de Mexico Structural AdS                  S             2001                505.1              0              0                0      300     -204.9        0
P065779                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINS                         S             2001                 218               0              0                0      218          0        0
P007610                     FOVI RESTRUCTURING     S                      U             1999                 505               0              0                0       312      222         0
P066674                     Indigenous and Community #                                  2001                   0               0              0                0        0          0        0
P044531                     KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.     S                      S             1998                 300               0              0                0      232       46.6        0
P007648                     MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP S                        S             1993                 200               0              0               23      98.1     121.1     98.1
P060908                     MESO AMERICAN CORRIIt#                                      2001                   0               0            14.8               0      14.6         0        0
P066938                     MX GENDER (LIL)        S                      S             2000                  3.1              0              0                0       3.1       0.2        0
P007720                     MX: HEALTH SYSTEM RE S                        S             1998                 700                0             0                0       150       150        0
P040199                     MX: BASIC EDUC.DEVELOS                        S             1998                 115               0              0                0      55.6      45.5        0
P007689                     MX: BASIC HEALTH 11    HS                    HS             1996                 310               0              0                0      58.9      58.9     58.9
P055061                     MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFS                        S             1998                  25               0              0                0       1.5       1.5        0
P049895                     MX: HIGHER ED. FINANCIN3                      S             1998                180.2              0              0                0       153      43.1        0
P007725                     MX: PRIMARY EDUC.II    HS                     S             1994                 412                0             0               40      47.6      87.6     47.6
P034490                     MX: TECHNICAL EDUCITRS                        S             1995                 265                0             0               30     103.9     133.9    103.8
P007710                     N. BORDER I ENVIRONM   S                      S             1994                 3&8               0              0            313.4      23.8     331,6     52.5
P007701                     ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI S                        S             1994                 200               0              0               30       30        60      21.1
P050429                     OZONE PROTECTION II( S                        S             1998                   0               0              13               0      10.1      -1.9        0
P007711                     RURAL DEV. MARG.AREAS                         S             1998                  47               0              0                0      32.4      17.7        0
P057530                     RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII    S                      S             2000                  55               0              0                0      47.7       1.7        0
P007713                     WATER RESOURCES MAN-S                         S             1996                186.5              0              0                0     122 7      76.4       19
P007707                     WATER/SANIT II         U                      U             1994                   0               0              0                0         0         0        0
Overall result                                                                          Result             5458.4               0           27.8           436.4      2683    1256.4    400.8
53



CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Mexico                            ANNEX VI
Mexico
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval    Company           Loan   Equity Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1998 Grupo Calidra         12     6     0     10     12     6     0    10
1989 Grupo FEMSA            0   9.43    0      0      0   9.43    0     0
1997 Grupo Minsa           16     10    0     24     16    10     0    24
1992/93/95/96/99 Grupo Posadas       25     0     10    10     25     0    10    10
1998 Grupo Sanfandila    9.17     0     0    4.4   7.17     0     0   3.4
1994/96/98/00  Heller Financial       0   0.32    0      0      0   0.32    0     0
2000 ITR                   14      0    0      4    10.9    0     0    3.1
2000 Innopack               0     15    0      0      0     15    0     0
1994 Intercerarnic          7     0     6    1.75     7     0     6   1.75
2000/01        InverCap               0   0.07     0     0      0   0.06    0     0
1993 Masterpak            1.2     0     0      0    1.2     0     0     0
1998 Merida III            30     0     0  73.95  28.31     0     0 69.79
1995/99        Mexplus Puertos        0   1.41    0      0      0   1.41    0     0
1996/99/00     NEMAK                  0     0   0.83     0      0     0   0.83    0
1998 PuntaLangosta        2.5      1    0   4.27    2.5     1     0  4.27
2000 Rio Bravo             50      0     0   59.5  35.62    0     0 42.38
2000 Saltillo S.A.         35      0     0    43  18.85     0     0 23.15
2000 Servicios            10.5   1.9    0     10    10.5   1.9    0    10
1999 Sudamerica             0     15    0      0      0    15     0     0
1997 TMA                 2.77     0    2.1   9.6   2.77     0    2.1  9.6
1992 Toluca Toll Road    6.53     0     0      0   6.53     0     0     0
1991/92        Vitro                  0      0    0      0      0     0     0     0
1991 Vitro Flotado       3.31     0     0    1.38  3.31     0     0   1.38
1998 ZNMxcEqtyFund          0   25.3    0      0      0  11.88    0     0
1988/91/92/93/95 Apasco             12.6     0    0    50.4  12.6     0     0   50.4
1998 Ayvi                  10     0     0      0     10     0     0     0
1990/92/96     BANAMEX            86.61      0    0   22.67  86.61    0     0 22.67
1997 Banco Bilbao MXC   65.88     0    30      0  65.88     0    30     0
1992 Banorte-SABROZA      1.5     0     0      0    1.5     0     0     0
1995/96        Baring Mex. FMC        0   0.02    0      0      0   0.02    0     0
1995/99        Baring Venture         0   2.73    0      0      0      1    0     0
1998 CIMA Mexico            0    4.8    0      0      0    4.8    0     0
1998 CIMAPuebla             7     0     0      0    3.5     0     0     0
1994 CTAPV               3.44     0   2.11     0   3.44     0   2.11    0
0 Chiapas-Propalma       0    0.8    0      0      0   0.31    0     0
1997 Comercializadora    2.84     0   2.03   5.63  2.84     0   2.03  5.63
1999 Corsa                 13     3     0      0     13     3     0     0
1993 Derivados            1.1     0     0      0    1.1     0     0     0
1997 Fondo Chiapas          0    4.2    0      0      0   0.43    0     0
1998 ForjaMonterrey        13     3     0     13     13     3     0    13
1991/96        GIBSA              21.64     0     10  72.76  21.64    0    10 72.76
1993 GIDESA                 5     8     0      0      5     8     0     0
1996/00        GIRSA                 45      0    0     60     45     0     0    60
1993 GOTM                0.82     0     0   0.22   0.82     0     0  0.22
1997/98        Gen. Hipotecaria       0    1.2    0      0      0   1.29    0     0
0 GrupoBBVA              0   2.67     0     0      0   2.67    0     0
Total Portfolio:       514.41 115.85 63.07 480.53 473.59  96.52 63.07 437.5
54



Approvals Pending Commitment                                         ANNEX VI
Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
2000 Teksid Aluminio     25000      0     0      0
2000 Teksid Hierro       15000      0     0 30000
1999 BANAMEX LRF II      50000      0     0      0
1999 Baring BMPEF FMC        0     60     0      0
1998 Cima Hermosillo      7000      0     0      0
2001 Compartamos          1000    900     0      0
2000 Educacion            3200      0     0      0
2000 Hospital ABC        30000      0     0  14000
2000 Innopack            15000      0     0      0
Total Pending Commitment:    146200    960      0 44000
55



