                                                                                      87593
                                                                                     CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                          ·t.          EDS200 1-0303
                                                       if=!=!=-==='=2=~=;\ ~-
                                                                           ...
                                                                                          June 20, 2001
                                                                                           05:05:34 PM



Statement by Terrie O'Leary
Date of Meeting: June 21, 2001

MEXICO: Country Assistance Strategy Report, Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment
                  Loan, and Third Basic Health Care Project

Mexico at its current juncture is very much a country in rapid transition- undergoing profound
economic, social and political changes. There are strong expectations on the part of Mexicans
that the recent political transformation will lead to a more open, participatory and transparent
governmental process. Initial signs on this are encouraging, with the appointment of a
broad-based and pluralistic cabinet and an open discussion in Congress on the rights of
indigenous peoples in Chiapas. Nevertheless, there is a difficult reform agenda ahead, including
addressing corruption and moving towards a more decentralized economic and political system.

On the fiscal side, while the much-awaited tax reform bill has not been introduced, as Congress
has decided to delay debate of the bill until the fall, tax reform remains a crucial pillar of the
government's fiscal agenda and rightly so. It is critical to raising the government's tax revenues,
which were estimated at 14 per cent ofGDP in 2000, the second lowest among the 85 countries
ranked by Standard & Poors. Higher tax revenues are necessary to help fund planned increases
in spending on education, social services and infrastructure, as well as help restructure PEMEX
(the state-owned oil monopoly) and reduce the government's dependence on oil revenue. On the
structural side, banking sector reform (including the sale or merger of financially distressed
institutions) is ongoing and further bank consolidation is planned. It is encouraging to note that
the Bank and Fund Staff recently reviewed Mexico in the Financial Sector Assistance Paper
(FSAP) and concluded that the reform efforts have been leading to positive results and that
Mexico's financial sector is now in good shape.

Mexico will likely approach the IMF in the fall for a Contingent Credit Line. The CCL is
designed to provide countries with strong economic policies a precautionary line of defense
against balance-of-payments problems that might arise from international financial contagion. In
our view Mexico appears to be a very good candidate for a CCL.

Previous years of strong growth had allowed Mexico to make very good progress in poverty
reduction, with national poverty levels falling to 50 per cent of the population over the
1984-1994 period. However, this figure masks the fact that while major gains were made in
reducing urban poverty, rural poverty actually increased over the period. Moreover, the
macroeconomic crisis of 1994-95 completely reversed the poverty reduction process. As growth
                                                                   2



recovered, poverty began to fall again but only gradually and remains widespread today.

In terms ofthe Bank program, the CAS approved by the Board in June 1999 focuses on social
sustainability, growth and macroeconomic stability, and effective public governance. The
discussion ofthe next CAS is tentatively scheduled for May 2002 which will allow time for the
new administration to fully define its medium-term development strategy and identify areas of
comparative advantage for Bank assistance. In the meantime, the existing CAS objectives
remain highly relevant and we believe should continue to guide the Bank program. The focus on
supporting major reforms through adjustment lending and investment operations to get at the
roots of poverty remains critical. It is important that the IFC continue to maintain its high
selectivity, focusing on financial sector development, SMEs and "frontier" sectors that are
relatively new to private firms.

Like the Bank, we are encouraged by the record so far of the new president and his team in
building consensus and beginning to address Mexico's economic, social and political challenges.
Managing this situation will not be easy, however. Even following on the remarkable growth
experience during periods of the last decade, poverty remains widespread, major structural
reforms are pending, no single party dominates Congress and public expectations of a more open,
participatory and transparent governmental process are high. There are also the difficult and
urgent problems of fighting corruption and moving towards a more decentralised economic and
political system.


Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report

We support maintaining the CAS as envisaged through to May 2002. The Bank's strategy, by
addressing key areas such as continued fiscal and financial sector reform, decentralization, wider
access to credit,.the needs of the rural poor, and development in the Southern states, will usefully
contribute to the reform agenda and poverty reduction. In addition, the Bank is exercising a
welcome degree of selectivity by focusing on areas where it has comparative advantage such as
improving tax administration, bank restructuring and assisting states in managing their new fiscal
responsibilities. While the Mexican authorities have very ambitious plans, it is appropriate that
the Bank limit itself to those areas where it can be most effective. We agree with the Bank that
while there are risks to the CAS, these risks are manageable.

We also agree with the Bank that both caution and optimism are in order regarding the outlook
for Mexico's economy in 2001. While continuing high oil prices may help alleviate some of the
constraints on the economy, Mexico's economic prospects will be closely tied to those of the
U.S. which is the market for nearly 90 percent of Mexican exports. If a slowdown in the
Mexican economy is protracted, the central bank may need to consider easing monetary policy
further to help stimulate domestic demand. Mexico's proven record of sound macroeconomic
management in recent years bodes well in this situation. It is also reassuring that Mexico has
been fairly well insulated from the financial turmoil in Argentina, due to investors' apparent
"flight to quality" within Latin American assets. The peso has appreciated almost 8 per cent since



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                   3



the beginning of this year, while domestic interest rates have continued to decline.

It is encouraging that Mexico is now recovering some of the gains in poverty reduction made
during the 1984-94 period, following the devastating setbacks of the 1994-95 crisis. We note,
however, that even during that earlier period, while overall levels of poverty declined, rural
poverty increased. Moreover poverty remains widespread in Mexico, particularly in the rural
areas and southern regions. We urge the Mexican authorities to work towards articulating a clear
poverty reduction strategy, developed with the meaningful participation of civil society, with a
focus on health, education and the social sectors, but also on agriculture and rural infrastructure.

With regard to education, we are very encouraged that primary education coverage exceeds 90
per cent in Mexico. We would be interested in knowing the regional distribution of this
coverage, and whether the coverage reflects the enrolment of both boys and girls.



Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan (BRFAL)

The proposed US $505 million Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan (BRFAL) follows a
previous such loan of an identical amount approved in December 1999. We fully support this
loan as it will help to improve the functioning of the financial sector, strengthen its ability to
withstand external shocks and lend to the private sector, and broaden access to micro, rural and
SME loans. It will further promote regulatory reforms supported by the previous BRFAL loan,
and help to finan.ce the bank restructuring/resolution program as full deposit insurance is phased
out.

Significant progress has already been made in strengthening the financial sector, supported by the
previous bank restructuring loan. Although Mexico's financial sector is considered to be in good
shape, we would be interested in the Bank's perspectives on the financial health of state-run
development banks.

Finally, we note that Bank exposure inMexico is projected to peak at US$12.7 billion in FY04,
which compares with the Bank's portfolio concentration limit ofUS$13.5 billion for any single
borrower. We agree with the Bank that this exposure should be monitored carefully and that the
implications for the Bank's strategy in Mexico be treated more fully in the upcoming CAS.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
