Report No. PID10262
Project Name                     Mexico-Second Bank Restructuring Facility...
Loan (BRFL II)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       MXPE71323
Borrower                         NAFIN
Guarantor                        United Mexican States
Implementing Agencies            Bank Savings Protection Institute (IPAB)
Lic. Julio Cesar Mendez
Secretario Ejecutivo
Varsovia No. 19-4 piso
Col. Juarez. C.P. 06600 Mexico, DF
Date this PID Prepared           April 27, 2001
Project Appraisal date           April 2, 2001
Project Board Date               June 5, 2001
Country Sector and background
Starting in late 1998, the Zedillo government adopted a new strategy for
strengthening and restructuring the banking sector, which had been badly
affected by the 1994/1995 peso crisis. The most important elements of this
strategy are: (i) the reform of the legal framework to improve incentives in
the financial sector through the introduction of a limited deposit insurance
coverage and a major revamping of bankruptcy and secured lending legislation
to strengthen contract enforcement and creditor rights; (ii) the adoption of
a comprehensive program of regulatory reforms to improve banks'
capitalization, soundness, and transparency; and (iii) the creation of the
Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings (IPAB), in charge of the deposit
insurance system and the restructuring/resolution programs of the insolvent
banks. This strategy is being furthered by the Fox administration, which has
submitted to Congress a comprehensive financial reform package, involving new
legislation and amendments to the major financial laws, with the aim to
increase savings and strengthen financial intermediation, further improve the
transparency and accountability of the financial institutions, and create an
environment that significantly reduces the vulnerability of the financial
system.
The World Bank has provided financial and analytical support to the
Government's program of bank restructuring. The First Bank Restructuring
Facility Loan, approved in November 1999, supported the first stage of the
Government's program involving legal and regulatory reforms and the
capitalization and resolution programs of three large insolvent banks under
IPAB's purview.
Loan Objectives and Description
The broader policy objective of this proposed loan is to assist the Mexican
Government to implement its Bank Restructuring Program, aimed at bringing



about a better functioning banking sector, able to withstand external shocks
and better able to lend to the private sector, opening access to groups and
enterprises today largely excluded from bank financing (micro, rural and
small and medium enterprises) This proposed loan would support the second
phase of the Government's program, which involves: (a) additional legal and
regulatory reforms to strengthen governance in the banking sector, extend the
new capital and credit portfolio classification regulations to public banks
and provide an early warning system; and (b) the resolution of all the
remaining banks under IPAB's purview. Bank funds would help finance part of
IPAB's debt-servicing needs arising from the implementation of its bank
resolution transactions, complementing other sources of funds available to
IPAB, such as: fiscal transfers, proceeds from asset disposal/recovery; and
fees from deposit insurance premia.
Loan financing
The proposed loan will be for US$505.06 million, to be disbursed in three
tranches.
Project Implementation
IPAB is the implementing agency for the operation. It will work with the
SecretarUa de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP) and the National Banking and
Securities Commission (CNBV) to ensure that the bank resolution transactions
supported by this operation meet agreed eligibility criteria.
Program sustainability
The legal, institutional and regulatory changes that support the Government's
Bank Restructuring Program ensure the sustainability of the bank resolution
transactions supported by this operation, which involves the sale, merger, or
liquidation of the remaining banks under IPAB's purview. These transactions
will create a stronger banking system able to operate and expand credit
availability in the Mexican market.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from past banking sector operations in Mexico and other
countries have been taken into account in the design of this operation.
These include: (i) a strong borrower ownership is indispensable in
complicated, time-intensive banking sector operations; (ii) the operations
should set limited objectives, because over ambitious objectives may be
beyond a single operation; (iii) loan disbursements should be linked to the
completion of specific bank transactions; and (iv) the main implementing
agency should be the main recipient of the loan funds.
Poverty category
The measures supported by this operation would have important long-term
social implications as they would reduce the risk of a repeat of the
1994/1995 banking crisis, and stimulate the resumption of prudent lending to
the private sector, with the associated benefits in terms of output growth
and employment generation. A banking system less vulnerable to crises will
be better able to sustain growth and, therefore, avoid poverty. Greater
access to credit by small and medium enterprises would create more job
opportunities, an important objective in a country with a high level of
-2 -



disguised unemployment.
Environmental aspects
This operation would not have any direct effect on the environment. For that
reason, it has been placed in Category C, in accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00 Annex A).
Program Objective Category. The Program Objective Category is Economic
Management (EA).
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington , D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Mariluz Cortez
Task Manager
(202) 473-0029
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 4, 2001.
- 3 -



