Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7060 - ME
Loan Agreement
(Second Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated December 12, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7060- ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) 
a letter dated May 31, 2001 (the Policy Letter), describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve the second phase of adjustment of the 
Guarantor’s banking sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Guarantor’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Guarantor’s Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (CNBV), as 
hereinafter defined, has participated in the preparation of the Program and supports 
the implementation of the actions described in Parts A.2, B.2, A3, and B3, of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement;
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
" ‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions";
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows in its entirety:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank of their respective obligations under 
the 
Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan."; and
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Acceptance" means the document (Autorización), issued by the Borrower’s 
Board (Consejo Directivo) to the Guarantor, whereby the Borrower agrees to comply with 
the terms of the Instructions, thus creating a binding legal agreement with the 
Guarantor regarding the subject matter of the Instructions;
(b)
"Agency Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, created by the Guarantor’s issuance of the Instructions and the Borrower’s 
subsequent issuance of the Acceptance;
(c)
"Asset Disposal Program" means the second phase of the program of actions 
for the sale, auction, administration or recovery of credits and other assets from 
banking institutions under IPAB's purview, to be undertaken by IPAB pursuant to the 
provisions of Article 61 of the Guarantor’s law (Ley de Protección al Ahorro Bancario) 
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on January 19, 1999, and in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex C to the Implementation Letter;
(d)
"Budgetary Transfers" means funds transferred by the Guarantor to IPAB, 
as a budget item in the Federal Budget, in accordance with the provisions of Annex D 
to the Implementation Letter; 
(e)
"CNBV" means Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, the Guarantor's 
banking regulatory and supervisory agency established and operating pursuant to the 
provisions of the Guarantor's Law (Ley de la Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores), 
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on April 28, 1995, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement, and any successor or successors thereto; 
(f)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
Page  3
(g)
"Eligible Bank Resolution Transaction" means  any of the following 
transactions:  (i) the sale or liquidation of any of the following banking 
institutions:  Bancrecer and Atlántico; and (ii) the revocation of the banking 
licenses of each of the seven intervened banks Capital, Cremi, Interestatal, Obrero, 
Oriente, Pronorte, and Unión, carried out in accordance with the eligibility criteria 
detailed in Attachments B.1, B.2 and B.3 of Annex B to the Implementation Letter; 
(h)
"Eligible Cash Transaction" means a cash payment made by IPAB for the  
partial financing of an Eligible Bank Resolution Transaction, not requiring Eligible 
Notes;
(i)
"Eligible Notes" means notes (instrumentos de crédito) issued by IPAB (in 
accordance with the conditions detailed in paragraph 3.2 of Annex B to the 
Implementation Letter) and guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of Article 45 of the 
Guarantor’s law (Ley de Protección al Ahorro Bancario) published in the Guarantor’s 
Official Gazette of January 19, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(j)
"Federal Budget" means the Guarantor’s annual budget, as approved by the 
Guarantor’s Chamber of Deputies (Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación) and enacted 
through a Congressional Decree issued pursuant to the Article 74 (IV) of the 
Guarantor’s Federal Constitution for each Fiscal Year during the execution of the 
Program;
(k)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Guarantor, beginning on 
January 1 of each calendar year; 
(l)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing: (i) technical criteria and detailed description of 
the actions and documentary evidence pertaining to: (A) the Regulatory Reform Program; 
(B) the Bank Resolution Program; (C) the Asset Disposal Program; (D) Budgetary 
Transfers to IPAB; and (E) the macroeconomic indicators;
(m)
"Instructions" means Oficio de Designación de Agente Financiero, issued 
by the Guarantor on May 23, 2001, instructing the Borrower to act as the authorized 
financial agent of the Guarantor, for the purposes of the Loan;
(n)
"Intervened Banks Resolution Program" means the program of actions 
required for the resolution of the banking institutions intervened by CNBV, and 
further detailed in paragraph 3.1 (B) of Annex B to the Implementation Letter;
(o)
"IPAB" means Instituto para la Protección al Ahorro Bancario, the 
Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings of the Guarantor, established and 
operating pursuant to the provisions of: (i) the Guarantor’s law (Ley de Protección al 
Ahorro Bancario) published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on January 19, 1999, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) Estatuto Orgánico del Instituto para 
la Protección al Ahorro Bancario dated October 4, 1999, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement, and any successor or successors thereto; 
(p)
"Regulatory Reform Program" means a series of regulatory reforms intended 
to improve the health and stability of the Guarantor’s financial sector, issued or to 
be issued by CNBV or SHCP, as the case may be, during the execution of the Program, 
pursuant to the provisions of  Annex A to the Implementation Letter; and
(q)
"SHCP" means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Guarantor's 
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, and any successor or successors thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five hundred 
five million sixty thousand Dollars ($505,060,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program, subject to the provisions of 
paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Section.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
Page  4
bank (Banco de México), a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by 
the Bank into the Deposit Account.  The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts 
from any source to be deposited in the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of one hundred fifty five million fifty thousand six hundred Dollars 
($155,050,600), unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement and based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (A) with the progress achieved by the Guarantor, IPAB and 
CNBV in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the macroeconomic policy framework 
of the Guarantor is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Guarantor and the Bank; and (C) that the actions described in Part A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may 
give notice to the Borrower and to the Guarantor to that effect and, if within ninety 
(90) days after such notice, the Borrower and the Guarantor shall not have taken steps 
satisfactory to the Bank in respect of (A), (B), and (C) above, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or 
any part thereof.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of three hundred thirty million fifty thousand six hundred Dollars 
($330,050,600), unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement and based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (A) with the progress achieved by the Guarantor, CNBV and 
IPAB in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the macroeconomic policy framework 
of the Guarantor is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Guarantor and the Bank; and (C) that the actions described in Part B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may 
give notice to the Borrower and to the Guarantor to that effect and, if within ninety 
(90) days after such notice, the Borrower and the Guarantor shall not have taken steps 
satisfactory to the Bank in respect of (A), (B), and (C) above, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or 
any part thereof.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to five million fifty thousand six hundred Dollars ($5,050,600).  The Borrower 
agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
Page  5
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the loan in full 
on June 15, 2011.
Section 2.09.  (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower shall issue the Acceptance, and, acting as 
authorized financial agent of the Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of the Agency 
Agreement, shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, contractual arrangements 
with IPAB, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank providing, inter alia, 
for the transfer, in Dollars, on a loan basis to IPAB of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
fail to enforce any provision of the Agency Agreement or of the contractual 
arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.  The Borrower shall 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under such Agency Agreement and the 
contractual arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, 
the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  The Borrower 
shall promptly inform the Bank and the Guarantor of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the performance of the Borrower under the Agency Agreement 
or the contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall participate in the exchanges of views referred 
to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.03.  Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Page  6
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Agency Agreement  and the contractual arrangements referred to 
in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been entered into; 
(b)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Guarantor is satisfactory 
to the Bank;
(c)
that CNBV has issued regulations on:  (i) the extension to development 
banks of the classification and provisioning norms for commercial credits that apply 
to private banks; and (ii) the establishment of minimum guidelines for internal 
controls in commercial banking institutions pursuant to the provisions of the Policy 
Letter;
(d)
that CNBV has approved a strategy for the liquidation of the following 
intervened banks:  Capital, Cremi, Interestatal, Obrero, Oriente, Pronorte, and Unión; 
and
(e)
that IPAB has issued and published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette 
(Diario Oficial de la Federación) a public offering (convocatoria) for the sale of 
Bancrecer pursuant to the provisions of the Policy Letter.
Section 5.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Agency Agreement and the 
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, the Guarantor and IPAB, as the case may 
be, have been duly executed by them, and are legally binding upon the Borrower, the 
Guarantor and IPAB in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03.  The date April 10, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Facsimile:
(202) 477-6391
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Dirección Internacional
Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre III, Piso 9
Page  7
Col. Guadalupe Inn
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City
Mexico City
Facsimile:
(52-5) 325-7097
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Mexico, D. F., as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By  /s/ Federico Patiño
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Guarantor;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121            -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122            -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525            -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
Page  8
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked 
718         718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or  silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971            -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Guarantor or international agreements to 
which the Guarantor is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower, of 
the Guarantor or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower or the Guarantor having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Part A.  
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
IPAB has issued Eligible Notes or entered into Eligible Cash Transactions in an 
aggregate amount equal to at least $3,000,000,000, in support of Eligible Bank 
Resolution Transactions.
2.
The Intervened Banks Resolution Program has been implemented, on a consistent 
basis, in accordance with its terms.
3.
The Regulatory Reform Program has been implemented, on a consistent basis, in 
accordance with its terms.
4.
The Asset Disposal Program has been implemented, on a consistent basis, in 
accordance with its terms.
5.
The Budgetary Transfers have been made in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB 
to discharge its responsibilities under the Program.
Part B.  
Actions referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement
1.
IPAB has issued Eligible Notes or entered into Eligible Cash Transactions in an 
aggregate amount equal to at least $10,000,000,000, in support of Eligible Bank 
Resolution Transactions, including in such amount any Eligible Notes issued and 
Eligible Cash Transactions in excess of the amount referred to in Part A.1 of this 
Schedule.
2.
The Intervened Banks Resolution Program has been implemented, on a consistent 
basis, in accordance with its terms.
Page  9
3.
The Regulatory Reform Program has been implemented on a consistent basis, in 
accordance with its terms. 
4.
The Asset Disposal Program has been implemented on a consistent basis, in 
accordance with its terms.
5.
The Budgetary Transfers have been made in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB 
to discharge its responsibilities under the Program.
