Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7060 - ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 12, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7060- ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 2001, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Guarantor a letter dated May 31, 
2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve the 
second phase of adjustment of the Guarantor's banking sector (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Guarantor's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided, in 
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Guarantor by making a loan 
in an amount of  five hundred five million sixty thousand Dollars ($505,060,000) to 
the Guarantor’s financial agent NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, of even date herewith, but only 
on condition that the Guarantor agrees to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in 
respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower 
Page  2
and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 2.01.  Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The Guarantor shall issue the Instructions, and exercise its 
rights and carry out its obligations under the Agency Agreement, in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall 
not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the Agency Agreement.  The Guarantor 
shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the performance of the Guarantor under the Agency 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out:  (i) 
the Program; and (ii) the actions specified in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Guarantor shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any of 
the actions specified in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01.  The 
Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Page  3
Section 4.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Palacio Nacional
Patio Central, Piso 3, Oficina 3010
Colonia Centro
06000 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
Facsimile:
(52-5) 228-1156
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Facsimile:
(202) 477-6391
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Francisco Gil Díaz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
