Document of
The World Bank   FILE COP
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2522-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
June 7, 1979
This document has  restict disidbution nd my be sd by recipients osly In the performance of
their ofal duties. Its contets may not otberwise be disclosed  withwt Worldla Bk authorizatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =   CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1                 =   CFAF 220
CFAF 1,000           =   US$4.545
CFAF50               =   FF 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)              0.621 miles
1 hectare (ha)           =   2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)          =   2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)3        =   0.984 long ton         3
1 cibic meter (m )       =   35.314 cubic feet (ft )
1 m3 (round)             =   27.74 Hoppus ft
1 m  (round) per ha      =   11.23 Hoppus ft per acre
1 kilowatt (kW)           =   1.360 cheval-vapeur (cv)
1 kilowatt (kW)           =   1.341 horsepower (hp)
ABBREVIATIONS
CFA       -    Communaute Financiere Africaine
(African Financial Community)
CTFT      -    Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
(Technical Centre for Tropical Forestry)
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CDC       -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
MEF       -    Ministere des Eaux et Forets
(Ministry of Water and Forests)
SODEFOR   -    Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations
Forestieres (Company for the Development of
Forestry Plantations)
FISCAL YEAR
Government   January 1 to December 31
SODEFOR      October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of the Ivory Coast.
Beneficiaries:       SODEFOR.
Amount:              US$18.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               17 years, including 5 years of grace at an interest
rate of 7.9 percent per annum.
Project              The project, to be implemented over five years, would
Description:        assist the Government's efforts to start a plantation
program on a significant scale and would strengthen its
forestry management and planning capabilities through
technical assistance to the Unit of Studies and Programming
within the Ministry of Water and Forests. It would
consist of a 20,000 ha plantation program as part of a
68,000 ha program on four estates. It would include
clearing 20,000 ha of logged-over high-forest by
force account and planting and maintaining short to
medium rotation hardwood species.
Risks of the project stem from its innovative nature
and its scope. Although the species that would be
grown have been successfully established over the
past decade, this would be the first time that they
would be grown in plantations. This is not expected
to raise extraordinary difficulties, however,
attention would have to be given to the technical
operations, quality of the timber and promotion of the
products.
This document has a msricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                    Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ million)------
Forestry Plantations            16.0      19.1      35.1
Forestry Planning and
Evaluation Units               0.2       1.6       1.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS              16.2     20.7       36.9
Contingencies                    4.6       5.8      10.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             20.8      26.5      47.3
(including taxes)
Taxes                            7.9       -         7.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST              12.9      26.5      39.4
(net of taxes)
Financing Plan:                                     US$ million
IBRD                               18.0
CDC                                12.0
Government                          9.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(net of taxes)                39.4
Economic Rate
of Return:         11.5 percent.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2403-IVC dated June 7, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$18.0 million to
help finance a forestry project. The loan would have a term of 17 years
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.  The
project would be co-financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC).
The CDC loan amounting to US$12 million equivalent would be at 7.5 percent per
annum over 25 years, including 7 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal find-
ings and conclusions, updated by Bank missions which visited the Ivory Coast
in October 1978 and February 1979 are incorporated in the following para-
graphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1977,
per capita GNP reached US$710, one of the highest in Africa. The good over-
all performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 17 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: large agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian Government of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; liberal government policies vis-a-vis foreign
private investment as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and generally adequate public finance performance and availability
of external aid.
4.        Favorable ecological conditions in the southern region give the
Ivory Coast a comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (par-
ticularly cocoa and coffee) and in the exploitation of timber resources.
From the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government were
concentrated on the agricultural and forestry sectors. Large investments
1/   Substantially identical with Part I of the President's Report No.
P-2488-IVC for a Second Tourism Development Project.



- 2 -
were made in transport infrastructure to open up new forestry and agricul-
tural areas, and in agricultural research programs. Adequate guaranteed
producer prices and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic
smallholder subsector has responded well. Government-owned large-scale
plantations wiFh outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut
palm. Rapid growth has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple,
palm and coconut oil, cocoa and coffee, for the last two of which the Ivory
Coast is now the third largest producer in the world.
5.        A long period of political stability, combined with the free trans-
ferability of profits and capital, has created an aura of confidence abroad
which assured access to foreign capital. However, the necessary technical
skills to foster the planned development were lacking in the country, and
the Ivorian community welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and
technical assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc
area and a strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory
Coast has always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it joined
the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has recently
helped promote the CIMAO project, which is the first regional industrial
undertaking involving both French and English speaking countries in West
Africa. An important feature of this cooperation with neighboring coun-
tries, which has been beneficial to all parties concerned, is the large
influx of unskilled labor from less well endowed Sahelian countries, par-
ticularly Upper Volta and Mali. In 1976, the foreign population of the
Ivory Coast (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) was 1.5 million, i.e. about 25
percent of the country's total population.
6.        The factors mentioned above have enabled the external sector to
grow rapidly, and the value of exports and imports increased more than six
times from 1960 to 1975. The trade balance during this period was positive
and amounted to 14 percent of export earnings. However, the deficit on
non-factor services, workers' remittances and direct investment income
has never allowed a surplus on the current account. The most noticeable
aspect of export earnings in recent years has been the high prices received
for coffee which increased by 60 percent in 1976 and a further 120 percent in
1977, and those for cocoa which increased by 20 percent in 1976 and a further
66 percent in 1977. Total exports receipts more than doubled from 1975 to
1977, when they reached approximately US$2.7 billion. However, merchandise
imports increased by 70 percent from 1975 to 1977 to US$2.2 billion, partly in
response to the import requirements of the increased public investment program
(see paragraph 7 below). The deficit on services and transfers also increased
at a rapid pace, amounting to more than US$800 million in 1977, but net
capital inflows of approximately US$500 million allowed a foreign exchange
reserve build-up of US$200 million.
7.        The success of the Ivorian economy is to a substantial extent
attributable to generally sound government policies regarding public finance
and external aid. The public sector generated savings which, after debt ser-
vice, financed about 50 percent of the public investment program. The level
of public investment is projected in the five-year plans and implemented
through a series of rolling three-year investment programs and annual invest-
ment budgets. The 1976-80 Plan called for public investment of about



US$5 billion, the equivalent of about 30 percent of projected GDP (compared to
23 percent during 1971-75). The main objectives stated in the Plan were to
further increase production in developed regions, develop agriculture in poor
Savannah areas, accelerate the opening up of the southwest, and substantially
increase social services. During the last two years, however, public invest-
ment has increased substantially beyond what was envisaged in the Plan as
funds became available from coffee and cocoa export receipts and as the
country borrowed extensively abroad. New investments were programmed to
expand education and other social services, to develop sugar production into a
major industry, and for a variety of projects in transportation, energy and
other fields. State enterprises have played a substantial role in this
expansion, especially in that portion financed by external credit. The
increased reliance on external capital is reflected in total external debt
(disbursed and undisbursed) which stood at US$1.5 billion at end 1975, US$2.2
billion at end 1976, and US$3.6 billion at end 1977. The implications of the
sharp rise in external public debt are discussed below (paras. 13 through 16).
Recent Development Issues
8.        To maintain the momentum of recent years and help broaden the access
to the benefits derived from it, the Government will need to persevere with
existing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve income
distribution, increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the manage-
ment of the economy, and maintain a public investment program of appropriate
dimensions. Current government policies are directed with some success to
protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in world market
prices and to promoting more balanced regional development. Agriculture
remains the most important sector, but the share of manufacturing in GDP
has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1976. Within agri-
culture, the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples, rubber,
cotton, coconut and palm oil has been encouraged, resulting in a decline
of the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72 percent in
1960 to 51 percent in 1976. In 1977, a year of very high coffee and cocoa
prices, these commodities' share of exports rose to 60 percent. As part of
a more balanced regional development policy, large infrastructure invest-
ments are underway in the southwest in an effort to develop access to that
potentially rich region.
9.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the north following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of ox-
drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment pro-
grams. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years, with
the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20 per-
cent of total income.
10.       Progress in the Ivorianization of capital and labor remains limited.
While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign ownership is



- 4 -
still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However, educa-
tion and training are given very high priority in the allocation of govern-
ment resources; increasing recognition is given to the employment potential
of the informal sector and the Government is sponsoring a variety of programs
designed to promote the development of small-scale industrial and commercial
enterprises.
11.       These new policy directions are being implemented at some cost.  The
development of new products, new sectors, and new regions yie'lds decreasing
returns on investments. For example, agricultural diversification is being
extended to crops with lower comparative advantage; forest reserves may be
exhausted in ten to fifteen years unless reforestation programs are started;
the best opportunities for import substitution in industrial development are
becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and productive investments in the
potentially rich but sparsely populated southwest yield initially low returns;
large programs to improve living conditions in the north and other poor rural
areas involve long gestation periods. Finally, the direct and indirect costs
of foreign production factors are increasing.
12.       The financial burden of the expanded public investment program has
also increased despite the funding of a large proportion from the exceptionally
large surpluses accumulated in 1976 and 1977 in the stabilization fund (equiv-
alent to about US$1.5 billion). Thus, the program still relies on external
credit for 40 percent of its funding, about 85 percent of which comes from
private banks and suppliers. This represents a large increase from previous
years. The overall terms and conditions of external public debt are harden-
ing, reflecting increased reliance on commercial credit, and the grant element
of public and private lending to the public sector declined from 29 percent
in 1969 to 8 percent in 1976. The increased costs of development, the larger
scale of investment now being undertaken and envisaged for the future and
the heavy reliance on foreign commercial credit to fund a major portion
of investment point to the necessity of measures to ensure that the limits
.of absorptive capacity are not exceeded and that repayment capacity is not
strained. The substantial decrease in external borrowing during 1978 when
commitments were $900 million, or one-half the amount committed in 1977, is an
encouraging sign that the Government of Ivory Coast is aware of the situation.
Other recent measures include a much stronger control by the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement over the state enterprises' borrowing and investment programs.
Prospects
13.       Provided the Government becomes more selective in determining in-
vestment priorities and limits external borrowing to prudent levels, the
medium- and long-term prospects of the Ivorian economy remain favorable and
an annual rate of growth of about 6 percent is a feasible objective for the
eighties.
14.       The economy has considerable potential for further development of
traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments have
been made, output of new products and development of new regions will start



to yield substantial benefits and can later be expanded at reasonable economic
cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protection and tax
holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution industries,
and there is scope for expansion of export oriented processing of local raw
materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's policies of income distri-
bution (prefere.ice for the family-size farm, programs to increase agricultural
productivity in the poorer north, and the promotion of the informal sector and
of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises) are fully compatible
with sustained economic growth.
15.       It is unlikely that the high prices for coffee and cocoa will persist
and export earnings will probably be considerably less buoyant in the near
future than in the past two years despite some mitigating effects of diversi-
fication into export products such as rubber, pineapples and industrial
products. Imports, however, have increased substantially and the large
deficit on services will remain as long as the country relies heavily on
foreign factors of production. Thus pressures on the-balance of payments will
remain. The size and financing of the public investment program will be a key
element in determining the extent of these pressures. Expected decreases in
cocoa-coffee prices by 40 percent over the next five years combined with high
debt service are also expected to put pressure on public savings. Their con-
tribution to the financing of the public investments is expected to substan-
tially decline from a high 60 percent in 1978. In this context some local
cost financing is justified.
16.       The authorities are therefore engaged in a review of new commitments
and indications are that the three-year public investment program 1979-81 will
be closely linked to available public savings plus official development
assistance. The aim is to carry out as much as possible high-priority plan
targets while achieving an external debt structure consistent with the medium-
term balance of payments prospects of the economy. By these means it should
be possible to keep the debt service ratio from rising above 25 percent during
-the next several years, and declining thereafter, thereby maintaining the
country's creditworthiness for borrowing on IBRD terms.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1977,
19 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 12 percent by interna-
tional organizations (of which 55 percent by the Bank Group), and 49 percent
by private banks and bond issues, while 20 percent came in the form of sup-
pliers' credits. More than half of the total capital not supplied by inter-
national organizations came from four countries; France (27 percent), USA
(23 percent), Lebanon (5 percent), and the Federal Republic of Germany (3
percent). France and the European Communities remain the principal source of
development assistance in grant form, accounting for about 3 percent of the
flow of foreign assistance to the public sector.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TEE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes thirty-five loans totaling
US$476.1 million (including US$14 million from the Third Window) and an IDA
credit of US$7.5 million. Fourteen of these thirty-six operations have been
for agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut devel-
opment. There were six road projects. The remaining sixteen loans were for
education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, water
supply, urban development, tourism development, small- and medium-scale enter-
prises, a regional cement project and a regional railway project. IFC's
involvement includes participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement
Industriel amounting to US$423,500 and a 10 percent equity investment, equiva-
lent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the largest
textile plant in the country. Late May 1979, IFC's Board also approved a
US$6.7 million investment in Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais S.A. (Siveng),
comprising a loan of US$5.3 million, an equity participation of US$1.4 million
and a contingent commitment of US$0.2 million. The project is aimed at
doubling the company's complex fertilizer plant capacity, raising it to
120,000 tons per year. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects, with particular
reference to those which are encountering problems in execution and giving
rise to delays in disbursements.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's lending program will continue to be
in agriculture, supporting the Government's efforts at developing smallholders
following the shift in policy from crop-oriented to rural development. A
smallholder rubber project was approved by the Board in October, 1978, and a
rural development project for the North-East is scheduled for Board presenta-
tion this fall. The Bank is presently helping in the preparation of two pilot
projects aimed at strengthening the agencies in charge of the rural develop-
ment in the Center and the Southern regions, and is associated with the prepara-
tion of a mechanization study and pilot scheme, carried out by the French
CCCE, to determine the feasibility of introducing mechanized farming in the
Ivory Coast. The re-organization of the institutions in the sector, following
the re-orientation of policy, has been the main cause of delay in the effec-
tiveness of the Bank's Grand Bereby Rubber II and Fourth Oil Palm loans. The
new institutional arrangements are now being finalized. The proposed forestry
project would be the Bank's first intervention in the forestry sector.
20.       Another important sector for the Bank is transportation.  The Bank
was closely associated, as executing agency, with the 1969 UNDP Transport
Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis for determining future
priorities among transport investments. Thus far the Bank has financed six
road projects totaling $123.3 million. The first project was completed in
December 1974 with final costs falling within appraisal estimates. The OED
report on this project dated June 28, 1977 recommended, inter alia, that more
emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This had been picked up in the
third highway project. The second road project was satisfactorily completed



-7 -
in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by project modification and
subsequent poor work organization for the construction component. The third
and fourth highway projects incurred substantial cost overruns which the Gov-
ernment is covering; otherwise execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The
fifth highway project approved in FY76 will contribute to a further improve-
ment of the primary road network of the country. A feeder roads and highway
maintenance project was approved in December 1977. For the future the Bank
is studying the possibility of extending a highway sector loan to the Ivory
Coast which would finance a portion of the country's highway investment
program for 1980-83. A railway project, focusing on the improvement of the
Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line, renewal of
rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was approved in FY78. A
second railway project to complete the rehabilitation from Petionara to Taf ire
is being prepared under the first project.
21.       Despite its rapid expansion, the education system of the Ivory
Coast has not provided the country with an adequate supply of skilled manpower.
The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts to modernize
the education system, in particular, at the secondary and vocational levels,
through two education projects. A third project, covering mainly vocational
training and informal education in rural areas, has been appraised.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75, covers
the first phase of a ten-year government program to improve sanitation in
Abidjan. The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which includes the
second phase of the program and studies for the third. An urban development
project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan's low income
housing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976. With respect
to the smaller towns, the Board approved in FY78 a secondary centers water
supply project. A secondary centers power distribution project is being
appraised.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management in
the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing high
priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this policy
the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises in FY76,
which has been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale project
approved in March 1979. The Bank Group also provided support for medium-
scale enterprises through another local development finance company and two
lines of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the tourism
sector. In June 1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support
of the CI1MAO project which is sponsored jointly by the Governments of Ghana,
Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in Togo for the
production of clinker for the cement market of the three countries.
24.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$57 million annually in the 1973-78 period. The average annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1977, stood at approximately 10.6 percent (including undisbursed). Its



- 8 -
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 6.4
percent to about 11 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, at present 3.6 percent, is expected to go up to about 6.0 percent
in the early 1980's.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
25.       The Ivory Coast is one of the world's major su3pliers of tropical
hardwoods. Production of timber rose from 1.1 million m in 1960 to an annual
average of 4.5 million m3 over the mid-1970s; while exports of timber averaged
3.0 million m3 accounting for 7 percent of world exports. Forestry constitutes
an important economic activity in the Ivory Coast. It accounts for about 6
percent of GDP, provides employment for 58,000 people, accounting for 25
percent of the country's industrial workforce, constitutes the country's third
most important source of foreign exchange (about 15 percent), and contributes
5 percent to the national budget. Forest products also constitute the prin-
cipal source of energy for heating and cooking. More than 5 million m3 per
annum are consumed locally for that purpose. Local processing of wood still
remains limited despite the establishment in 1972 of a quota system requiring
loggers to deliver 40 percent of their total cut for local processing and
manufacturing. The value of lumber exported remains below 25 percent of the
value of logs exported.
26.       Forest reserves are being depleted rapidly by inadequately con-
trolled logging and by infiltrators. The infiltrators are farmers extending
their lands and migrants who prefer the forest because of less stringent land
tenure restrictions. Between 1956 and 1974, the area of high forest was
reduced from 16 million ha to 5.5 million ha. The most recent Government
estimates indicate that the area of exploitable forest is being reduced
at the rate of 0.5 million ha per annum. Were this situation allowed to
continue, the country would become a net importer of timber before the end
of the century, with a local demand amounting to 2 million m per annum and
an annual production from the remaining productive forest limited to 0.5 mil-
lion m . The composition of exports has already changed considerably, reflect-
ing the exhaustion of the first quality reserves. Between 1970 and 1976,
annual exports of first quality redwoods fell from 1.1 million m3 to less than
0.5 million m3, while exports of lower grades increased from 1 million m3 to
1.6 million m  .  The greater proportion of lower grades now ixported has
resulted in a 3 percent per annum decline in real value per m of exported
logs. Even more important than the loss of foreign exchange for the country
are the environmental implications of the continuing disappearance of the
forest. In Africa, the area of productive high forest has been reduced from
an estimated 200 million ha at the beginning of the century to 100 million
ha. There are now about 300 million ha of impoverished soils under a system
of shifting cultivation. These soils are too poor to support sustained annual
food cropping. The complete elimination of forests in the humid tropics could
lead to soil erosion and induce unfavorable environmental changes.



- 9 -
27.       The Government has become increasingly concerned at the rate of
depletion of the forest, and in the current Five-Year Plan has defined, for
the first time, long-term objectives for the forestry sector. These objec-
tives call for the preservation and rational management of 2.5 million ha of
remaining productive high forest, the maintenance of 1.7 million ha of savannah
forest and the Lreation of 0.5 million ha of timber plantations by the reforesta-
tion of areas that have already been logged. Implementation of these actions is
expected to yield an annual production of 5.7 million m3 by 2050--sufficient
to supply estimated domestic market requirements of about 2.8 million m3 per
annum and to leave an exportable surplus of approximately the same volume.
28.       The preservation of the forest implies long-term actions to stabil-
ize a shifting agriculture and to slow down the North-South migration.  The
rational management of the natural forest remains also a long-term strategic
objective. The project would provide for studies of these questions by the
Unit of Studies and Programming within the Ministry of Water and Forests.
29.       Reforestation is probably the best way to increase forestry produc-
tion. Plantations can produce up to 10 times more annual timber growth than
the natural forest. The reforestation program was started in 1966 but has
been implemented at a slow pace because of the lack of trained manpower and
financing. In 1978, only about 20,000 ha had been replanted. Prospects are
for the creation of further plantings at an annual rate increasing from 4,000
ha in the late 1970's to 10,000 ha in 1983 with a final target of 500,000 ha
by about 2050 on at least nine estates. The proposed project, which would be
implemented on four of the nine estates, would provide for the development of
4,000 ha per annum over the 1979-83 period and the building up of the institu-
tions for the extension of the program thereafter.
30.       The reforestation program has been planned on the assumption that
the country's greatest need will be for general purpose lumber. Priority has
therefore been given to short and medium term rotation species suited for
that end use, and allowing for a final cut after 20 to 25 years.
Forestry Education
31.       The shortage of competent forestry technicians and engineers is
a critical constraint to the further development of the sector. Existing
forestry training and education facilities are limited. The newly expanded
forest school at Bouafle is responsible for the most basic level of training
in practical forestry (mostly the training of forest guards). More technical
training is provided by the forestry school at Bouake which, however, has a
capacity of only 20 students annually. Graduate level training for technical
engineers is provided at the Agricultural Institute in Bouake where, however,
facilities for forestry training are inadequate. At the university level,
there are no degree courses in forestry available in the Ivory Coast. The
Government has commissioned several studies on the overall training require-
ments of the forestry sector, which are now being reviewed in the context of
an overall reform of the education system in the rural sector.
32.       In view of the urgent need for trained technicians, the Government
proposes, however, to proceed immediately with the enlargement of the Bouake



- 10 -
school (plus an Annex at Banco) to accommodate 120 students, each participating
in a two-year training course leading to the award of a diploma in Forest
Technology. The school would equip students with a broad-based technical
education in forestry, fitting them for a wide range of tasks in practical
forest management. It is estimated that 1,000 such technicians will eventually
be required in the context of the present plans for the forestry sector. The
school would be expanded over a three-year period in two phases. The first
phase is underway under Government financing and the second phase is expected
to be the subject of a project financed by CCCE and would be carried out in
close cooperation with the proposed project. Assurances were obtained from
Government that the school would be enlarged to provide a sufficient number
of adequately trained staff for the country's forestry sector (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.04).
Institutions
33.       Government's concern with the depletion of its forest resources led
to the establishment in 1966 of a State Company for the Development of For-
estry Plantations (SODEFOR), responsible for reforestation and the management
of the natural forest. It would be entrusted with the implementation of the
plantation component of the proposed project. Additionally, in 1974 the Depart-
ment of Water and Forests in the Ministry of Agriculture was upgraded into
a separate Ministry of Water and Forests.
34.       SODEFOR, which is fully state owned, is under the technical control
of the Ministry of Water and Forests and the financial control of the Ministry
of Economy, Finance and Planning. It is well managed and has a sound adminis-
trative structure. SODEFOR has four operating units: Reforestation, Forest
and Surveys, Inventory and Forest Management, and Management of Old Planta-
tions. It has a staff of 1,000; 25 are in management position including
9 expatriates. The Department of Reforestation, which controls the field
operations and would assure the implementation of the proposed project, is
the largest. It is headed by an expatriate forester. Each of the four
estates financed under the project are staffed by capable managers (three
expatriates and one Ivorian), and supported by two expatriate engineers. The
bulk of SODEFOR revenues consists of annual allocations from the Investment
Budget of the Central Government.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       The proposed project is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal
Report No. 2403-IVC dated June 7, 1979, and summarized at the beginning of
this report.  Annex III contains Supplementary Project Data.  The project was
identified and prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.  An identifica-
tion mission took place in March 1976 and was followed by two preparation
missions in November 1977 and February 1978.  The preparation report was
completed in June 1978. The appraisal mission by the Bank took place in
September/October 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington on May 8-11,
1979. The Ivorian Delegation was led by Mr. Leon Naka, Director General of



- 11 -
the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement and included representatives of the
Ministry of Water and Forests and SODEFOR. Representatives of CDC also
participated in the negotiations.
36.       The proposed project would assist the Government in its current
efforts to start a plantation development program on a significant scale,
and in strengthening its forestry management and planning capabilities.
37.       The proposed project would be carried out in the four forest
reserves of Tene, Sangoue, Mopri and Irobo of which 68,000 ha are expected to
be plantable. By the end of 1979, when the project would start, 22,000 ha
will have been planted in the four estates (of which 4,000 ha in 1979).
Government plans to continue planting on these estates at the rate of 1,000 ha
per estate each year until 1991 when all suitable land in the reserves would
have been planted. The proposed project would comprise the 1979/1980-1983/84
tranche (20,000 ha) of the 68,000 ha program. These four estates are located
between 120 and 200 km Northwest of Abidjan. Dominant vegetation in this area
is high forest: transitional in the two most northerly reserves of Sangoue
and Tene, semi-deciduous at Mopri and evergreen at Irobo in the South. Soils
are predominantly ferralitic and range in texture from coarse sands to heavy
clays. Mean annual rainfall varies between 1,600 mm at Irobo and 1,300 mm at
Tene. Temperature averages 27 0C. Retaining a forest cover on those soils is
considered the best use of the land.
Project Description
38.       The proposed project, which would be implemented over a 5-year
period, would comprise:
(a) land clearing and preparation of 20,000 ha of logged-over
high forest for replanting with forest trees;
(b) planting and maintenance of 20,000 ha of short to medium
rotation hardwood species;
(c) maintenance of the 22,000 ha of existing plantations;
(d) construction and maintenance of forest tracks and improve-
ment of existing housing for the permanent work force; and
(e) provision of technical assistance to SODEFOR and the
Ministry of Water and Forests.
39.       Until now land clearing has been done mechanically by contractors,
and by hiring of equipment. However, the use of contractors presents sev-
eral drawbacks: first its high cost, US$1,400/ha in 1979 prices (including
US$270 taxes), second the lack of reliability of the contractors who have



- 12 -
never been able to meet the annual targets and finally, the difficulty SODEFOR
has in coordinating the knocking down of the forest with the recuperation of
the marketable timber. This salvage logging, as it is known, has not been
well executed and resulted in the loss of potential revenues. Equipment hire,
although leaving SODEFOR in command of its operation is also expensive,
US$1,100/ha. Landclearing on force account, by SODEFOR with its own equipment
is the cheapest and most reliable solution. Cost per hectare for operations
under force account are estimated at US$900 including depreciation and over-
head. The project would therefore finance the purchase of 20 heavy tractors,
to carry out the forest clearing program and eight medium tractors for prepar-
ing the land.
40.       Three main fast growing species would be planted under the project:
Frake and Samba, both indigeneous, and the exotic Cedrela. Other species
potentially valuable would be planted on limited areas for trials.
41.       The SODEFOR plantations are already provided with equipment for
mechanized estate maintenance operations. Attempts would be made during the
project period to evolve new methods, including the introduction of cover
crops and the use of herbicides to reduce the costs of estate maintenance
operations.
42.       The project would finance the construction, and maintenance of 800
km of tracks to service the new plantations. These tracks would be of simple
construction since they would be required only for access during the planting
period and maintenance, including fire protection, and would not carry any
heavy traffic until final cutting of the timber 20 years later.  A further
800 km of existing tracks, serving already planted areas, would also be
maintained.
43.       The project would also provide for the strengthening of the Unit of
Studies and Programming within the Ministry of Water and Forests. This
.Unit would support SODEFOR in its reforestation activities, in particular
in the implementation of the proposed project, the development of management
techniques to ensure the preservation and more productive utilization of
the remaining natural forest, the assessment of the possibility of introducing
tree farming as a means of stabilizing agriculture, and the identification
and preparation of new projects, especially in the Savannah areas. A detailed
work program would be prepared by the Unit before December 31, 1980 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 and Schedule 4).
Project Implementation
44.       SODEFOR would be strengthened under the project, through the hiring
of four internationally recruited experts. Two would be employed at head-
quarters, a deputy to the director of reforestation responsible for mechanized
forest plantation who would assist the director of reforestation, and an
accountant to organize and implement a cost accounting system for the re-
forestation program. Two experts, a silviculturist and an agricultural engineer,
would be located at Tene,which would be used as a pilot estate for the testing
of new techniques. These four experts would be recruited on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank. The appointment of the deputy director of



- 13 -
reforestation and the accountant assigned to headquarters would be a condition
of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
45.       The Unit of Studies and Programming of the Ministry of Water and
Forests would be strengthened by three internationally recruited experts, an
economist, a silviculturist and a financial controller who would be appointed
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The seven experts financed
under the project would be backed up by Ivorian counterparts (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03 and Project Agreement, Section 2.02) who would probably replace
them by the end of the project period. The experts would provide extensive
on-the-job training for the further development of local management and senior
staff. The total cost of these experts is estimated at US$3.0 million, 35
man-years at an average cost of US$85,000 (1979 prices), including salaries,
travel and other related costs.
Research
46.       SODEFOR would have the capacity to handle routine technical matters
related to its forestry program, but would continue to call upon the assist-
ance of the Technical Center for Tropical Forestry (CTFT) in Abidjan which
already provides it with research services on a contractual basis for specific
studies. The CTFT program would concern itself primarily with genetic improve-
ment of the species being planted and silviculture to improve the development
of the planted trees.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
47.       SODEFOR would keep records consistent with sound and adequate
accounting practice to reflect both its general financial situation and
the detailed costs of operations on the four project estates. SODEFOR would
appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of
SODEFOR's financial year. SODEFOR would also produce and submit to the Bank
annual budgets, quarterly financial reports and progress reports detailing the
work carried out on each of the four estates financed under the project.
Assurances to that effect have been obtained (Project Agreement, Sections 2.05
and Article IV).
Project Costs
48.       Project costs (inclusive of taxes) are estimated at US$47.3 million
with foreign costs of about US$26.5 million (56 percent). Taxes would amount
to US$7.9 million. Interest during the project period, which is not included
in the project cost, would amount to an additional US$5.7 million.
Project Financing
49.       The Bank would provide a loan of US$18 million, i.e. 46 percent
of total project cost (net of taxes). The Commonwealth Development Corpora-
tion (CDC) of the United Kingdom would participate in the financing with the
equivalent of US$12 million. CDC would participate in the financing of the
plantation component only. The two loans would be made to the Government.



- 14 -
Total external financing would amount to US$30 million, 76 percent of net
project cost, and would finance the foreign exchange cost, US$26.5 million
plus US$3.5 million of local cost. The Bank's share of local cost financing,
measured in proportion to its share of total external financing would be about
US$2.1 million. Such a high percentage of foreign financing is justified on
the grounds of the long gestation period of the plantation, the continuing
expenditures that the Government would have to incur for the maintenance of
the plantations after the end of the project period, and the debt service of
the CDC and the Bank loan which would be entirely repaid before final cut of
the plantations. Moreover, the project constitutes the first phase of a
larger plantation program which would require substantial additional expendi-
tures (see para. 55) until the end of the century. Additionally on the short
term, the Government is committed under the project to enlarge immediately the
Bouake school, at a cost estimated at about US$7 million for which it has to
mobilize additional external financing. Government's contribution, net of
taxes, would amount to US$9.4 million. A condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan would be the effectiveness of the CDC loan (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01). Funds for the plantation component would be passed to SODEFOR in the
form of grants.
Procurement
50.       Heavy equipment estimated to cost about US$9.0 million, would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for contract of US$100,000 or more. For equipment and vehicles
of US$30,000 to US$100,000, but aggregating no more than US$0.6 million, local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be used.
Equipment purchases up to US$30,000 and aggregating no more than US$0.4
million, would be made through consultations with suppliers, or negotiated
contracts, acceptable to the Bank. Civil works, mainly estate housing
scattered over the four estates, amounting to US$0.9 million would be procured
according to local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures accept-
able to the Bank.  The technical assistance services valued at US$3.4 million,
would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Field
operations -- land clearing, construction of tracks, planting and maintenance
of the plantations -- would be done under force account consisting of labor
and machinery operating costs (US$21.9 million). The remaining costs (US$7.5
million) would be for local personnel, administration and overheads.
Disbursement
51.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over 5-1/2 years to cover the
following expenditures:
(a)  plantatirns:  44 percent of the cost of construction of housing
(US$0.4 million), 40 percent of the cost of vehicles and equipment
(US$4.0 million), 38% of the cost of field operations, including land
clearing, planting and estate maintenance (US$8.3 million), and 100%
of the foreign exchange cost of technical assistance (US$1.6 million);
(b) Ministry of Water and Forests: 87% of the cost of vehicle and
equipment (US$0.1 million) and 100% of the foreign exchange cost
of technical assistance (US$1.6 million).



- 15 -
US$2.0 million would be unallocated. All disbursements would be fully docu-
mented with the exception of field operations, which would be disbursed against
certified statements of expenditures with full supporting documentation
retained by SODEFOR for examination during supervision. Annual audit of
SODEFOR's accounts would include specific verifications of such expenditures.
Production, Market and Prices
52.       The project's production (20,000 ha) would consist of 0.2 million m
from salvage logging during the clearing of the plantation, 0.4 million m3from
thinning of the plantations about 10-12 years after project start, and 4.4 mil-
lion m3 of final cut after 20-25 years, totalling 5 million m35  Production
from the entire 68,000 ha program would amount to 17 million m . The wood is
expected to be processed in the Ivory Coast, and the end product be offered
on both export and domestic markets according to its quality.
53.       Price prospects for tropical timber are good, and the Ivory Coast
will continue to enjoy a comparative advantage over its African competitors
because of more favorable logging conditions and the relative proximity of
its forests to the port.   Project output values are based on an annual
rate of price increase of 2 percent for logs of export quality, a lower figure
than the 3 percent predicted by the Bank for the highest quality redwoods, and
an annual price increase of 1 percent for the medium grade timber suitable for
domestic marketing. Base prices have been calculated on the stumpage value,
which is the value of the timber in the standing tree, before cutting, extrac-
tion and processing costs are incurred. Export qualitZ of Cedrela has an
estimated stumpage value in 1979 prices of US$90 per m and domestic quality
Cedrela and other species (of lower quality) of about US$45 per m3. There is
undoubtedly a market for the plantation grown wood. However, a marketing
study to determine the best use of these timbers to promote and popularize
their use is desirable. Such a study is currently under consideration for
other West African countries producing similar quality of wood (Nigeria,
Gabon, Congo, Cameroon and Ghana). The Ivorians have expressed interest in
participating in the study.
Financial Returns
54.       The financial rate of return of the project's plantation component
would be slightly over 10 percent. The full program of 68,000 ha which would
effect economies of scale on management, equipment and infrastructure would
yield a 12 percent financial rate of return.
55.       Since the first final cut starts 20 years after planting, and
taking into account the continuation of the 68,000 ha program, SODEFOR would
require substantial budget support from Government until 1997/98 when its
cumulative deficit would have reached US$150 million in current terms.



- 16 -
Large surpluses would be generated from year 1998 onwards when the earliest
plantings would be ready for final cut. Assurances have been obtained that
the Government would provide the necessary funds to bring to maturity the
project plantation (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03). The implementation of the
full program may be the subject of a follow-up project financed by the Bank in
the mid-eighties.
Project Benefits
56.       The proposed project is crucial to the future development of the
forestry sector to the extent that it constitutes the Government's first size-
able effort to implement a strategy that would ensure the national long-term
development of the country's timber production. It would demonstrate the
technical and economic viability of converting areas of depleted natural high
forest to plantations of selected hardwood timber species with higher produc-
tivity. Readily quantifiable benefits would derive from the incremental timber
production of the plantation (see para. 52). Less easily evaluated, but
even mre important benefits in the long run are the institution building
components, the strengthening of SODEFOR and the still relatively new Ministry
of Water and Forests. In addition, there would be environmental benefits
accruing from soil conservation, and watershed protection that could ultimately
influence agricultural yields. Finally, the project would also induce improve-
ments in the forestry training and education system. Permanent employment
creation due to the capital intensive nature of the operations would be limited
to a total of 100 jobs per estate, probably largely composed of migrants from
Mali and Upper Volta. Revenues stemming from the project would be consider-
able. Final cut revenues alone would amount to US$350 million in 1979 prices
of which a substantial proportion would be foreign exchange.
57.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 11.5 percent.
Continuation of the full 68,000 ha program would entail an economic rate
of return of about 13 percent. These are the averages of several rates of
return computed under different hypotheses regarding the market for the final
cut, sales of thinnings, and the recovery of timber during land clearing.
The project's rates of return range between 10 percent, when only the revenues
from final cut are taken into consideration and the final cut is assumed to be
sold domestically, and 13.5 percent when revenues from salvage logging and
thinning are added and assuming that 60 percent of the final cut is of
exportable quality.
58.       Risks of the project stem from its innovative nature and its scope.
Although the species that would be grown have been successfully established
over the past 10 years in the areas and are recognized on world market as
forest grown logs, this would be the first time that they would be grown in
plantations on such a scale in the Ivory Coast. While this is not expec-
ted to raise extraordinary difficulties, attention would have to be given to
the technical operations of the plantation and the quality of the timber to be



- 17 -
grown through the research program; the establishment of the Tene estate as a
pilot estate to test new techniques the strengthening of the Unit of Studies
and Programming, which would monitor SODEFOR's activities and help find
solutions to the technical and organizational problems that might arise during
project implementation and, finally, the marketing study which should help at
the promotion of the products. The program of genetic selection and silvi-
cultural research could even raise yields above the level assumed in evaluat-
ing the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and SODEFOR and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
60.       The draft Agreements conform generally to the normal pattern for
loans for forestry development projects. Special conditions of the draft
Loan and Project Agreements are listed in Section III of Annex III.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 7, 1979



- 18 -                                                  ANNEX I
Pase I
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
IVORY COAST                                              /a
LAND AR8A (THOUSAND SQ. IN.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            332.0                                                     SA           SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      171.2                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPIC   INCOME          INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Le   GROUP Id    GROUP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   190.0       380.0      710.0            223.6      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EOUIVALENT)       76.0        228.0     366.0             86.7       578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION,  MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          3.9          5.4       7.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 21.8 /f       26.0      34.3              13.6       46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        12.0         16.0      22.0             18.4        50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      23.0         32.0      43.0             53.6        93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.7 ]A      42.5      43.1             44.4        42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                          53.7 fLgj    54.8      54.0             52.7        53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ANOVE                    3.6 Iah    2.7        2.9              2.8         3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTE RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4          3.4 IL    4.2 ft           2.6         2.5          1.6
URBAN                              10.6 /I       8.7 fk    9.9              5.9         4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0         46.1      45.6             46.9        37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.4         23.3      20.6             20.6        10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2 /ARI    3.1         3.1             3.1         2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED  OMERN)    ..           ..         ..             2.5        20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FPOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              59.5        100.0     113.7             94.2       107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    94.0        114.0     113.0             90.1       105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           52.0         60.0      64.5             55.2        63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..         18.0 /m   21.4             17.1        21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..          ..         ..              ..         8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9          41.0      43.5             43.7        57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           138.0 /g        ..         ..           138.4        53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         44.0        *-             22.4        56.8        67.7
IRBAN                                *'         98.0        ..             66.3        79.0        83.5
RURAL                                 ..        29.0         ..            10.4        31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          5.0         ..            23.9        30.9        70.3
URBAN                                ..         23.0         ..            70.3        45.4        90.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             14.2        16.1        38.3
FOPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          254BO.O/n   15320.0   15760.0           21757.5      2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2210.0/n.o  2830.0D]  1970.0            3473.8      1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..       1150.0    1240.0            645.4       493.9       275.4
URBAN                                ..        250.0         ..           172.9       229.6        129.9
RURAL                                 *-      1650.0         ..          1292.6      2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..             19.2       22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..             4.9         5.2          3.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..             5.0         5.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             4.7         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..         2.0          0.9
URBAN                               2.5 /f        ..         ..              ..         1.5         0.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..              ..         2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                1.014        ..         ..              ..        64.1         59.2
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..        67.8         78.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..        34.1         12.5



- 19 -                                           ANNEX I.
IYO  COAST - OCIA   DICATORS DATA SEEKT
RgRZNuCz GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
IVORY COAST                                            Li
- MOST RUCZNT ESTIMATE)
SANE        SANE     NEXT SIGHER
DIO  RNICENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOHE        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ZTD. ATk  /b      REGION /c   GROUP dO   GROUP a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0        76.0       63.0            52.1        99.8        97.6
FEMALE               24.0         55.0      48.0             37.6       93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   2.0        11.0       17.0             8.0        33.8        47.8
FEMALE                 1.0         5.0       8.0              5.0       29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 13.0          7.0        6.0             7.2        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0        45.0       44.0            43.2        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                            ..        21.0      23.0             22.8        22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9.0 /f     20.0         ..            20.3        71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0        10.0         ..             3.9        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0        17.0         ..            40.1       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         8.0         ..             2.2        28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0        10.0        5.0             3.9        45.2        70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..             1.2         4.6         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1900.0 IA   2600.0    2900.0
F;MALE (PERCENT)                   44.0 IA     43.8      43.8             32.6        25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.0        82.0       80.0            73.3        46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.1         2.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                55.6        53.4       51.6            42.0        33.8        33.7
MALE                                 61.4         59.4      57.7            54.8        48.1        50.8
FEMALE                               49.6        47.3       45.5            27.3        17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1         0.9        1.0              1.2        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.9 L/                   ..            25.7        23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.8 is         ..      50.0 a          55.1        52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6 Is                  9.0 /           5.8         4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5 /          ..      20.0 Is         14.5        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..           108.8       191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      96.0            74.1       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     203.0           124.4       319.8       448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     134.0            59.6       197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      20.0            26.8        19.8        23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      30.0            47.6        35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  Ie  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1965;  IR  1957-58;   /h  Age 15-59 years and 60 and
over respectively;   /i Due to i;migration population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural
increase;  aL  1955-65;   /k  1965-70;   Li African Population only;   /m  1964-66;   /n  1963;  /o In-
cluding midwives and assistant midwives;   IE  Government only, including midwives;  Ia  1956-57;
/r  1964;   /a  Population.
September, 1978



- 20 -
ANE  I
DEFINITIONS 07 SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        Pags 3
Sari   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mean, excluding the ixtrme values of the indicator end the  oat
populated country in each group. Coverags of countries ameong the indicetors depends on vailability of date and is not uniform. Dua to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exportere and indicators of access to water and excreta dieposal, housing, incoms distribution and poverty are
simple population-woighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thouand sq.  o)'                                                                Population per hosoital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (tot.1,
Total - Total surface area comprising land are. and inland waters,                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bade
Agricultural - Most recent estimats of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public end private general and specialined hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pasturs, market end kitchen gardens or to                       hebilitation centers.    ospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
carea,,re no %included. Rural hospitals, hovever, include health end medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal renters not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 bahie);                 sintant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomod-tion and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                provide a limited range of medical focilities.
-                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Admissioms per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of cosercial energy                        from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average eisa of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household onist so of a group of individuals  who ehare living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
overage oT two end-year estimtes; 1960, 1970, and 1977 datae                              the household for atatistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban populatioa (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Averase number of persons per room - total, urban  and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                  ber of persons per roo-  in a11, urban, end rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per   q. ho   - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area                                                                           Access to electricity (perc-nt of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per eq  ho. agricolture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population Ree structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yearn), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adlusted enrollnent ratios
Population growth rate (percant) - tota1, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Tota1 and fele enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of tota1 and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the priary level as percentages of respectively primry school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 yearn but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are blow   r
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for  aost recent estimate                       above the official school age.
Crude death rare (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tics requires at least four years of approved primary instructioo; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal osproductive period if she experiencea preoont age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Voational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           cude technical, industrial, or other progrens which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total stsdents enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of macrind women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 yearn and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita  (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Passenger care (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                       seating less than eight persons; excludes amblances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of cmloriea (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food aupplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thoosand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lean                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirce.e.t  were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
ma1 activity and health considering enviromoental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand Population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd.
weighta  age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                        tries and in years uhen registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein  (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of fond is defined an                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protoin per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protin, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.                Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based ou  the number of tickets
Theso standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of anima  protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply fcon animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EtMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, et     Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in thin age group.                                tiuss in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Fe.ale labor fore. as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting end fishing
Lifo eupectu-cy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force
remaining ot birth; usually fion-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction,  annulaturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and fele - Total,  ale, and
one your of age per thos.and live birhts.                                                 fenale labor f-rce as per-ntiag.s of their respective populations.
Access to sofe water (percent of population) - total urban, and rural -                     These are ILO's udjusted participation rates reflecting Ace-son
Nunber of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      str-ct-re cf thy population, sod long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Econonic dopendeoc.  ratin - Ratio of population under 15 acd 65 and coot to
uncontaminated water such as that fron protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) on percentages of their respective populations.
Is as urban area a public fountain or standpost located not mere                      INCOME DISTRIBETION
than 200 meters from a honse say be considered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private income  (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent  and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or membern of the household do not have to                       cf households.
spend a disproportio.cto part of the day in fetching the family'n
ater needs.                                                                           POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to encreta disposal (percent of population) - total urban, and                   Eitimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and roral) served by excreta                         Absolute poverty income level is that imcooe level below which a  i=in=al
disposol an percentages of their respective populations.  Etcret                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is rot
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with or vithout                         affordable.
treot.ent, of human emcreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or che use of pit privies and similar installations                                       Relative poverty isnnn. level is thut income level less than one-third
Populatioo per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal iscome of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       EItimated population below poverty income level (perent) - urban and rural -
Poepuliicn per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) wbh  are either "absoluto ponr" or
practicing sale and floale gradu-t  nurses, practical nurses  and                         "relative poor" whichev.r is greater.
assistant curses.
teoonoic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Depart.ent



ANNEX I
-21-                                                                  Page 4
to o.ao -EVEIDBST DATA
(Amount        lions of U.S. dollars)
Actual     1976               Projectetd            1965-   1976 -   1978 -   1985 -               1976    l95
1970   190"   ~ ~ ~ 976            1978     1985      1990       91    17        19,
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
5-Year Average at 1967- 1969 Prices & Exchange Rates          Averae Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             1041      1479      2245       2622      3984    5404         1.2     8.1       6.2       63     105.9   103.6   109.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)         8                 -77         -28     -        -                     .        .         .        5.9    -3.6    -9,4
Gross Domestic Income               9        1509                  2594              49          75      9.4       5.0       5.9 1           100.0  1 .
Import (incl. NFS)                  348       570       826         974     1210    1472         8.2     8.6       3.1       4.0      35.4    38.1    33.2
Exports   "  (import capacity)   -362                  -810         9      -1205   -1585         7.6     9.9       3.0       5.6      36.8    37.4    33.1
Resource Gap                        -14        1                     -5         5    -113         .        .        .         .       r          7      0.1
Consumption Expenditures            785      1162      1661       1795      2440    3098         7.1     4.0       4.5       4.9     79.9    76.6    67.0
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)    184         329       522         795     1208    1638        10.0    23.4       6.2       6.3     18.7    24.1    33.2
Domestic Savings                    198       347       506         799     1203    1751         8.9    25.6       6.o       7.8     20.1    23.3    33.0
National Savings                    138       271       406         672     1005    1527        10.3    28.7       5.9       8.7     14.0    18.7    27.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                           As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                      61       111       417         870     1643    1933        21.1    44.0       9.5       3.2     23.9    28.1    41.8
Intermediate goods (cLsfuels)    41          85      250          347      588    1727        17.8    17.6       7.8      14.0     16.1    14.2    15.0
Fuels and related materials        13        18       168         186      210      617       29.5     5.4       1.7      19.2       5.1    11.3      5.4
of which:  Petroleum              4        14      142         170       190      580      43.0      9.4       3.4     19.0       1.6      9.6      4.8
Consumption goods                   a   .218 t                        ; 49 6  25    -         17.2   2.3   12.0   11.9 N4Sq  .4" 47 -L&
Total Merch. Imports (cif)        255       432      1484       2073      3923    6872        19.2      "j 37    11.9    l00.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products xCs-. fuels)    246       394      1365        1918     2625    3984        16.8    18.6       4.5       8.6     86.o    78.4    64.9
Fuels and related materials        -          3       63           70       79      113         .      5.6       1.7       7.5      -        3.6      2.0
of which:  Petroleum             -          3       63          70        79      113         .      5.6       1.7      7.5       -       (3.6)   (2.0)
Manufactured goods                 40       100       R14         414     13       Z37        22.8    14.4      17.7      12.1     14.0    1L.0    3.1
Total Merch, Exports (fob)        286       497     1742        2402      4041    6475        19      17.7       7.7       9.9    100.0   100.0   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                      Average 1967-69   100
Export Price Index                 79       104      218         276       338      448      10.7    12.3        3.4      5.8
Import Price Index                 91       99       239         284       434     605       10.1      8.7      6.2       6.9
Terms of Trade Index               86      105        91          97        78       74       o.6      3.6      -2.8     -1.1
Exports Volume Index               89      114       181         206       316     437        7.3      6.7       6.3      6.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1967- 6q Prices and Exchange Rates              Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       365      426       550         600       753      881       4.2      4.6       3.6      3.2      35.1    25.0      18.9
Industry and Mining              173       287       465         535      841    1156        10.4      7.4      6.7       6.5      16.6    21.3      21.1
Service                                    766      1230        1487     2390       67        9 -,       9      7-        7.1      48.3    57        601
Tctal                             1041 1479         -275        2452-    3984       17         87      8.7                        100.0   100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                         As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                 213       297       567         606       970    1226        7.6      1.6       7.0      6.2      21.6    27.1      26.6
Current  Expenditures                      231        7          4        680    1027         9.2     6.3       7.0       6.2      15.8    17.2      18.7
15udgetary Savings                          6        214                  290      199       13.9    -8.7       7.0      -7.0       5.9     9.9       8 .
Other Public Sector               4        75       154         605       382     655       20.0   100.0      -6.8      11.4       2.4     7.1      10.5
Public Sector Investment          9       158       368         786      672      854       15.1    47.0      -2.3       5.0       9.2    17.0      18.4
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITUTRE DETAILS                   Actual        Prelim.   Est.    Proj.         DETAIL ON                                At end 1975  P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)              1965    1976       1977      1978    195n         PUBLIC SECTOR
Education                                17.9    37.7         37.        0    37.0         INVESTMENT PROGRAM                             (1976-80)
Other Social Services                    10.4    13.0       11.5      10.8    10.5         Social Sectors                           1716           26
Agriculture                               4.6      2.9       3.3       3.0      3.0        Agrculture                               2046           31
Other Economic Services                  16.5    19.0       20.5      17.2    17.0         Industry and Mining                       330           5
Administration and Defense               37.0    21.6       21.0      20.2    19.5          Power                                    726           11
Oter7.0    216     2160 7   2        19,5         Transport and communications            1518           23
Other                                    13.6      .8        6.7      11.8    1            Othe
Total Current Expenditures              100.0   100.0      100.0    100.0   100.0          Other                                    ..              4
___________________________________________________________________________________  Total    Expenditures  6600   100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960-     1965-    1970-   1973-         FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)             1965       1970      1975    1978
Average ICOR                                        1.8        2           7                     Public S.-tor Savings                3894           59
Import Elasticity                                   0.8        1.4       3.7    315              Program aid counterpart              -             -
Marginal DLomestic Savings Rate                     0.18       0.22     0.30    0.25            Foreign Project Aid                  2706           41
Marginal National Savings Rate                      012          16        24    020Total Financing                                  6600          1000
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worker (1967-6q  Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                 In Millions          % of Total          1965-73            In U.S.Dollars      Percent of  Average        1965-73
1965       19 73    1965       19 73     Growth Rate         19 6s      19 75       19         19 73     Growth Rate
Agriculture                     1743        2093    85.7        82.9          3.2              209        215        40.4       30.6          o.3
Industry                        143          234      7.6        9.2          6.4             1210       1513      234.0      215.2         -1.0
Total                          2013         2528      6.7        5.0          5.9             396     4835          764.6     687.8           2.6
Total            -101~~~~    2527 ~    100.0      100.0          377              517        703       130-0    100.0u           3,9
not applicable        - nil or negligible
not ava_lable        -- less than half the
smallest unit shown



ANN0X I
-22 -
MAIJIOS OF PAMD!NTSI, fULLL ASSISTANCE AND D5ET
(eacuants in eljis of U.S. domeArs at current prices)
Avg. Annua
Actual                           Estiruted                                       arEoth Rate
7.973       19'74        1975         1976lb 1992                                                          191          17922         1219i77-1983
SW*1ARY EALANCS OF PAY9IENTS
Esports (iInc. N7S)                         981          1428         1480         1935          2529            2831         2978         3293         3627          4011         4467           10.0
Iort  (inol. NF)                           1041          1s06         1591         19            2161             145         2980         3310         3824         3983          449             9.9
804 esoFrcealan8( 7X-M)                                   122                   38 -   -73 28
Interes t (net)                              -33          -38          -.56         -50            -84.          418          -155         -190         -228         -283          -307           24.0
Diect I-e -ent Inam                          -64          -53          -83          -60           -215           -120         -100         -120         -134          -151         -169            7.4
rkeve          e R   comtt a                -123         -139         -163         -170           -347           -290         -290         -290         -308         -333         -349             5.1
Current T7r fern (reLt)                       54           47           21           40             35             25           25           30            34           38           42            9.1
baane rCurtccounts                          -219     ,     E~.         !~r        ~                 lt                        -62                      --        - i  -5
__________________________      _____9      _7-            -_9          -T                            _7         -7-                                                     1             19.2
Private 21,-at Iaee-tznt                      48           28           29           50             50             6o           70           Bo            20          1(0          112           14. L
Official  Capital -at                                                                17             20             20            0           2             20           20           20 
Paula0617 nane                              228          218          32           355            785            897          987         1078         1188          1212         1318           14.6
-Rf,-c M&LT Lcans                          226b4                      -g9         -109          -243           -189          -403         -54          -6087        -677         -778            31.0
Oct Die.bur     t                            i84    i      41         T      2 4 b               542              728       g    3          53           581          935           540            3.7
Othev MALT I-aL/
e=b,rnectnnt
-Reays                                                                                            _                                      - ae
ANtml .etianated
Capital Trarsactiors n.e.i.                  -21           28           51           -3           -170                                                                                         1737l 793  io ei
barnge in Net Resverv6                        10          -87          178          -38           -199         DE3T AND DEBT SERVICE
Dobhis Debt Out. & Disbursed    579          736        963       1183         1969
GRANT AND LOAN OOMMITMENST
ffi inl GOrants & Grant-like                  15           19           17           20                          Interest no Pablic Debt           28         38         56         66          104
Rapaycacate -fl Pblion Debt       44         77         81       109           187
Public M&LT Io..                                                                                                 Tatal Pbblin Debt Sra-ice         72        115        137        175          29a
ThaD                                         8           28          134           48             98           Othr Dbt Semae (aeo)               3          4          9          0            
1DA                                          8            0            0            0              0          Total Debt Service (act)           75       119        146        175          290
Other
Otbor Ou1t1Jata-al                          37           34            6           28             30         6urden cn Rort E-rgin(9  (9)
Governrents                                 21           47           51          121            170
Supplievs                                   73           89          169          189           420            Publia Debt Se-vise                8          8         10          9           11
a'inanninl Inst-tittion                   119           131           87          484          11i42          Total Debt Se-visa                  8          8         10          9           11
Bd                                           9            0            0            0              0          TDS+Dirct Inve-t. 7an.             14         12         16         12          14
Publi -Loan  n.c.i.                          0            0            0            0              O
ront Fal blia 902 Locns                     275           320          44b          848          1900         Averae Tense nf Public Debt
Actual Debt Oatet.adit,g cn   7.  1  1*7                         TIt. an % Prior Tear DOhD        4.8        5.2        9.8        5.6          8.B
0T210X1 LS DEBbTr                                               d9Ol             Psio                              Aaort. as S Pri-r Yee-  DOh1   7.7         10.5        8.4        9.2         15.9
-brId 3a                                                 0
IDA                                                    6.7                       0.3                          TLED Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Naltilnteral                                   104.6                        5.3                           "  as 9 Public Debt OD           5.0        6.7        7.7        7.5          6.4
*oversuseatc                                         378.1                       19.2                           "  an 9 Public Debt Seavine    3.2           2.8        4.2        4.8          3.6
Sxnelia"..                                           397.3                      20.2
Financial Lnatitutioac                               94f" 3                      47,9                          IDA Dbt Okt. & Diabureed
Panda                                                 19.2                        1.0                           "  an 9 Public Debt OhD            -          -         0.2        0.3          0.2
Public Debts n.e.i                                      0.0                       00                               an % Pblic Debt Sra-ice         -          -          -         0.1          __
Tctal Pablin MhTS Debt                              1968i5 100.0
Other MALT Debts
shbrt-t-ea Debt (2mb. only)
f.lt applinable                                                      e   atff .eti-te                       3/  innluded in Public M4LT L-ans
a.t avaiLable                                                        - nil ar negligible
..t available separatey                                             --  lees  thbn hblf the
but imluded in total                                                    eallent unit sheen                                                                                   Spt-b- 197



- 23 -
ANNEX II
1aage 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of April 30, 1979)
US$ Millions
Loan or      Fiscal                                         (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose           Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
One           Credit Fully Disbursed                                7.5
Thirteen      Loans  Fully Disbursed                      69.5
761-IVC       1971   Ivory Coast        Highways II       20.5                   0.2
837-IVC       1972   Ivory Coast        Highways III    17.5                     0.9
981-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast        Telecom-          17.4                  13.5
munications
1069-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II         20.0                  11.4
1076-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Abidjan            9.0                  0.3
Sewerage
1077-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton           31.0                  19.9
1124-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Tourism            9.7                  5.0
1125-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Education II       5.0                  0.7
1161-IVC      1976   Ivory Coast        Highways V       43.0                   9.4
1162-IVC      1976   CCI                DFC               5.6                   4.1
1177-IVC      1976   BIDI               DFC                8.0                  6.0
1347-IVC      1977   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev.       30.0                  19.7
1348-T-IVC   1977   Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.        14.0                  9.2
1382-IVC/1   1977   SODEPALM            Oil Palm &
Coconut          20.0                  20.0
1484-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Water Supply    16.0                   14.6
1490-IVC      1978   RAN                Railway          23.0                  21.4
1501-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Feeder Roads    29.0                   26.8
1575-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast         Rubber II        20.0                  20.0
1577-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast         Abidjan
Sewerage II      33.0                  33.0
1633-IVC/1   1979   Ivory Coast         Rubber III         7.6                   7.6
TOTAL                                         448.8      7.5        243.7
of which has been repaid                17.3       -
TOTAL now outstanding                         431.5      7.5
Amount sold                           5.1
of which has been repaid         3.2       1.9      -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                429.6      7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                             243.7      0.0        243.7
/1   Not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of April 30, 1979)
Type of                US Dollars
Year     Obligor                        Business         Loan     Equity    Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne              Industrial         -      204,000   204,000
de Developpement             Development
Industriel                   Bank
1978     do.                            do.                       219,500   219,500
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.       Textiles                  884,700   884,700
Total gross commitments                          -    1,308,200 1,308,200
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                    -    1,308,200 1,308,200



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Project:  US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4. 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project was the first Bank's involvement in highway maintenance in the
Ivory Coast. The maintenance and betterment programs were successfully
completed in May 1977. The training and technical assistance programs were
being carried out under the Feeder Roads and Maintenance Project (Loan No.
1501), which continues the maintenance program undertaken under this project.
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:  US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30. 1979.
The project has experienced a two-year slippage due mainly to management
and organizational changes and delays in appointing engineering consultants.
After the Government awarded the contract for switching equipment to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked under the loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was can-
celled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A 50 percent tariff increase for
telecommunication services, effective January 1, 1978, is expected to generate
the cash necessary for the Postal and Telecommunication Office to carry out
its expanded investment program.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project includes: establishing of 26,500 ha of high yielding cocoa planta-
tion, of which 9,500 ha would be planted in 76 blocks composed of individual
plots; providing technical assistance and credit to farmers; constructing
wells; constructing or rehabilitating access roads; and strengthening the
management. The project physical target has been met and SATMACI management
is satisfactory. The problem of quality of cocoa has been closely followed
and decisive progress in fermentation and drying techniques of cocoa have been
achieved. Since 1976, the financial situation of SATMACI has been unsatis-
factory as a result of administrative delays in the payment of Government's
contributions. The situation is being monitored closely by RMWA.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -                          ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. No. 1076          Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Although construction works have already started, project execution is expected
to be delayed by about one year due to delays in procurement decisions. Work
is now progressing satisfactorily. Project costs are expected to be close to
appraisal estimates. The Abidjan sewerage and drainage sector's financial
situation is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial delays in starting the feeder roads and the village water supply
programs have been made up. The development of cotton production is far ahead
of the appraisal estimates (36 percent). Improved food crop production is,
however, stagnating because of marketing problems. Some financial difficulties
are experienced this year because of depressed world market prices for cotton
and inadequate price input policy. Disbursements are behind schedule due to
the re-organization of CIDT's accounting system and the administration's
slowness in processing the withdrawal applications. Discussions between the
Government and RMWA on these various issues are underway.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. The line of credit is expected
to be fully committed by mid-1979.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date:  September 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project is almost completed. The two primary teacher training institutes
which were constructed under the project are in use and most of the improvements
to urban vocational training centers have been made. Studies have been completed
on regional education needs, educational T.V., personnel management, and secondary
school inventories; other studies to be financed under the project are under way.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The pavement strengthening program was completed mid-1978 on schedule.
Construction work has been substantially delayed because of technical and
management difficulties. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance the updating



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds. The Government
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of the survey in
this loan.
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Initial commitments by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the project's financial
intermediary, have been slow. However, the line of credit is now 75 percent
committed. Project execution is now satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Three sub-projects have been approved; others are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1347          Urban Development Project:  US$44.0 million.  Loans
and 1348-T            (US$30.0 million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Effectiveness was delayed until March 9, 1978 mostly due to slow administra-
tive procedures. Now the execution of the project is progressing satisfac-
torily with regard to the urban transport and sites components. The shelter
component is still delayed mostly because of slow administrative procedures to
on-lend the proceeds of the loan to the executing agencies.
Ln. No. 1382 1/       Fourth Oil Palm Project:  US$20 million Loan of March 30,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Ln. No. 1484          Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1490          Regional Railway Project:  US$23 million Loan of
November 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although effectiveness of the loan was delayed, procurement is well advanced
and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1/ Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 1501           Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1575 1/        Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
Loan of June 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Ln. No. 1577 1/        Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Ln. No. 1633 1/        SAPH Rubber Project:  US$7.6 million loan of November 30,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Ln. No.       2/       Artisans, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Project:
US$12.6 million Loan approved on March 6, 1979; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984.
Ln. No.       2/       Second Tourism Development Project:  US$14.2 Million;
Loan Approved on May 15, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1984.
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Not yet signed.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Forestry Review Mission                December 1975
(b)  Identification FAO/CP                  March 1976
(c)  Pre-preparation FAO/CP/IBRD            November 1977
(d)  Preparation Mission FAO/CP/IBRD        February 1978
(e)  Preparation Report FAO/CP/IBRD         June 1978
(f)  Appraisal Mission                      September 1978
(g)  Negotiations                           May 1979
(h)  Planned Date of Effectiveness          November 1979
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions of the Loan and Project Agreements are:
(a) the Government would extend the capacity of the Bouake
school (plus the Banco Annex) to provide sufficient
numbers of adequately trained staff for the country's
forestry sector (para. 32);
(b) a detailed work program would be prepared by the Unit
of Studies and Programming before December 31, 1980
(para. 43);
(c) the Government would provide the experts financed under
the project in the Ministry of Water and Forests and
SODEFOR with qualified Ivorian counterpart staff
(para. 45); and
(d) the Government would provide the necessary funds to
bring to maturity the project plantation (para. 55).
Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be:
(a) the appointment of the deputy director and the
cost-accountant assigned to SODEFOR's headquarters
(para. 44); and
(b) the effectiveness of the CDC Loan (para. 49).






IBRD 13998
FORESTY  PRITV~                                                        . ......~
; 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                         e  ' Donooe < 3
O..g.            %u~qd 
ERRtSStDOUGOU  e C . . '-
. g r X W X~~~~~~~~Bddikoho                                                a( \une 
" N,fA                  **I_/
GU LA                                               N                 ,  t _ K .
I~~~~~OJ
.  .) .AA     i          \< tr                                      '/)     ' **:                        ~
/1 G5$se '*et6SLs                                                                                 AB-NGOUROX --k   G H A N A
~~~~~J **I-  L;O ..>  .                 AeDyL * Bol2 *,O                           N,b
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~O L ;   /P6
A A F              D
. S t E ,ffi/ F*,oA                         T L    ZA   N T I/C   O Q C (EA          Q  Q 9 )   () T LM% $A NI T A NT tS
EACH OOT RECENTE
O. * *     rNHAtTANTN



