Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY  FiLE  CO?Y
Report No. 2403-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
June 7, 1979
Regional Projects Department
West Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      CFA franc (CFAF)
US$      1                 CFAF 220
CFAF 1,000          =      US$    4.545
CFAF    50          =      FF      1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)            =      0.621 miles
1 hectare (ha)              =      2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)             =      2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)3                  0.984 long ton
1 cMbic meter (m3)          =     35.314 cubic feet (ft3)
1 m3 (round)                =     27.74 Hoppus ft
1 m  (round) per ha         =      11.23 Hoppus ft per acre
1 kilowatt (kW)             =       1.360 cheval-vapeur (cv)
1 kilowatt (kW)             =       1.341 horsepower (hp)
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE      =   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFA       =   Communaute Financiere Africaine
(African Financial Community)
CTFT          Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
(Technical Centre for Tropical Forestry)
ENSA      =   Ecole Nationale Superieure Agronomique d'Abidjan
(Higher National School of Agronomy, Abidjan)
IAB       =   Institut Agricole de Bouake
(Agricultural Institute, Bouake)
MEF       =   Ministere des Eaux et Forets
(Ministry of Waters and Forests)
SODEFOR   =   Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations
Forestieres (Company for the Development of
Forestry Plantations)
FISCAL YEAR
Government   January 1  to  December  31
SODEFOR      October 1  to  September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ........ .....  ...................      ........          1
A.   General  .. .     .    .... ..... .   . ................        1
B. The Forestry Sector .2...2
II.   THE PROJECT AREA.                .. ................... . .           7
III. THE PROJECT.                                                            8
A. The Plantation Component             .9
B.   Technical Assistance       .    ................... * ..       12
C.   Project Costs           .      .      .............. Pb...     13
D. Proposed Financing                 ....13
E.   Procurement      .      .        . . ............              16
F.  Disbursement ................... ..              ..17
G.   Accounts, Reporting Requirements and Auditing                  18
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ..18
A.   The Plantation Component                            .....      18
B.   The Ministry of Waters and Forests ..... .........             21
V.   PRODUCTION ..................o......                                 21
VI.   MARKETS AND PRICES    . ................... ........                 24
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS.............                                      25
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....................28
IX.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............................           33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, comprising
Messrs. A. Green, K. Oblitas, A. Rychener and Ms. J. Noel (Bank) and
Mr. A. Lafond and Ms. S. Carbonnier (consultants) which visited the Ivory
Coast in September/October 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia dutim. its contents may not otherwise bc diacboed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table No..                                                                           Page No.
1    Project Cost Estimates ...*              ........ .. .........  .......     15
2    Proposed Financing Plan           .........   .       ..............        16
3     Financial Returns . ................... .... ... ............              26
4    Economic Returns ...........  ...........       . ..................... ......    29
5     Sensitivity ................................ 0 .......................     31
SUPPORTING TABLES
III. 1   Planting Program by Chantier and Species .                  .....       35
2   Debt Service ............... ..................... . ...    36
3   Project Cost Summary ..........*.....***....**........                 37               a
4   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements ..................                 38
VI. l    Stumpage value of timber.............................                  39
VII. 1   Cash Flow .......*.*.......**.......... .........*                      40
2   Government Investment .. ....... o ............ .... o ...             41
3   Summary of Revenue Streams  ..........................                 42
VIII. 1   Economic Costs and Benefits             .....    ...............        43
CHARTS      1   Organigram SODEFOR .... .....................    44
GRAPHS                                                              *
Figure i        A Comparison between Estimated Returns from Timber
and Rubber ............................................    45
Figure 2        Effects of Variations in Benefits on Rates of Return..    46
.Figure 3        Sensitivitv to Cost Increases and Shortfalls in Benefits   47
List of related documents and data available in
the Project File . ...............  .................... .    48
ANNEX 1          Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Staff ....    49
MAP
IBRD 13998:   Project Location



IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
1.01      The Ivory Coast has an area of 322,500 km . The southern half of
the country is covered by tropical rain forest, extending up to 200 km inland
before giving way to savannah forest and then, as rainfall diminishes, to
open savannah which covers the northern part of the country.
1.02      The population, estimated at about 7.3 million, has been growing
over the past decade at 4% per annum. Although the majority of the people,
about 5 million, still live in rural areas, there is a tendency to move
towards the towns and seek urban employment. About 22% of the population are
immigrants from neighboring Sahelian countries, mainly Mali and Upper Volta.
1.03      The country's economic performance has been good.  Through the
1960s, the GDP grew at an average of 8.3% per annum, the rate slowed to 5.6%
between 1970-75, due partly to a worldwide recession and partly to internal
factors including adverse weather conditions which affected production of
major agricultural commodities, particularly cocoa and coffee. By 1977,
the per capita GDP had, nevertheless, reached US$710, one of the highest
in Africa.
1.04      The Government's development strategy calls for continuing agricul-
tural diversification. In the tree crop sub-sector, still dominated by cocoa
and coffee, increasing contributions are being made by oil palm, coconut and
rubber. Cotton production reached 40,000 t in 1978 with the majority of
the crop going to supply the rapidly expanding domestic textile industry.
Attention is also being paid to raising the production of staple food crops
such as rice, maize and cassava and, in consequence, it has been possible
to reduce the importation of foodstuffs from 130 to 105 kg per head of the
population. There are plans for the development of the still largely un-
exploited, but potentially rich, southwestern part of the country where oil
palm, coconut and rubber estates, with associated smallholdings, are already
being established. This energetic pursuit of agricultural expansion and
diversification has contributed to the rapid reduction of the country's
forest reserves and their preservation is now a matter of major concern for
both economic and environmental reasons.



-2-
B. The Forestry Sector
1.05      The Ivory Coast is one of the world'  major suppliers of tropi5al
hardwoods. Production rose from 1.1 million m in 1960 to 3.5 million m in
1970.  In 1971, in response to heavy lemand, it reached an all time high of
5.2 million m  of which 3.5 million m  were exported 3in the form of logs,
accounting for 7% of world exports of 49.6 million m . Production fell in
1974 and 1975, dje to a worldwide recession in the timber trade, but recovered
to 4.8 million m in 1976. These 1976 exports, worth US$255 million, contri-
buted 16% of the country's total export earnings. In addition, tax revenues
from the sector contributed some 5% of the national budget. Forestry pro-
vides direct employment for 45,000 people with salaries totalling CFAF 20
billion (US$91 million). The associated industries employ a further 13,000
workers, who constitute 25% of the country's total industrial work force.
Logging is exclusively in the hands of the private sector and the 650 con-
cessionaires are all Ivorian nationals. However, many of them subcontract
their rights to large expatriate companies who have the capital and technical
expertise required to carry out the work. During the P970s, the Ivory Coast's
total volume of log exports has averaged 3.0 million m a year with a very
slight upward trend over the period. The value, in constant 1976 terms,
averaged CFAF 58.8 billion (CFAF 47.7 billion in current terms) but with a
slight downward trend principally attributable to low prices in 1975. However,
the relative importance of the different species has changed substantially over
the years. Betweeî 1970 and 1976, exports of îirst quality redwoods fell
from 1.1 million m to less than 0.5 million m , a drop of 57%, though the
value in constant terms fell by only 42% and still represented 23% of the
total. The increaling scarcity of these top quality timbers is reflected
in the price per m . Between 1970 and 1978, this increased at 15% per annum
in current values and, in constant terms, at 4.2% per annum. However, the
greater proportion, by volume, of lower grîdes now exported has resulted in a
2.7% per annum decline in real value per m overall. Forest taxes in Ivory
Coast accounted for 5% of all Government revenues in 1976. They include con-
cession fees, annual concession taxes, felling taxes and export taxes. The
export tax rate as a percentage of FOB price varies from 25% for class 4
species to 45% for class 1 species. In general, this is much higher than in
neighboring exporting countries. Lower tax rates on secondary lesser known
species to encourage their exports, introduced in 1972, coupled with increasing
scarcity of the high priced red woods, has resulted in a significant increase
in the number and volumes of secondary species exported. Export taxes on
processed wood are 2.1% of FOB values for veneer, 5.0% for plywood, and 16.0%
for sawn lumber. The improved training of the forest guards at Bouafle should
result in the better enforcement of the taxation system.
1.06      Concerned at both the rate of depletion of the forest reserves and
the high proportion of timber being exported in the form of logs, Government
introduced a quota system in 1972. This restricted the total allowable cut
and required that 40% of the volume be made available for local processing.



-3-
The industry responded by US$45 million of new invest ent between 1972 and
1977 and lawing capacity was increased to 2 million m (compared with 0.5
million m in the 1960s). However, the major proportion of top quality logs
continue to be exported and it is mostly the lower grades that are processed
within the country. Enforcement of the 40% quota regulation is difficult and
available data indicate that it is not always respected. This combination of
low quality, lower than intended volume, and relatively inefficient processing
has restricted the value of the exports achieved by the domestic timber indus-
tries to no more than 25% of the value of the logs still being exported. There
are, however, sound reasons for not insisting too rigorously on the immediate
in-country processing of the highest quality logs. There is a strong demand
for these in Western Europe, where they are sold to a large number of highly
sophisticated veneer and plywood producing industries with secure market
outlets for their products. Quite apart from the difficulty of achieving
rapid penetration into these markets, the installation and operation of such
specialized machinery in a humid tropical environment impose additional costs
which render it difficult for such plants to compete effectively with indus-
tries more favorably located.
1.07      Plantation grown timber, to be produced under the reforestation
program, will be of a different category and can be expected to be processed
locally. There are plans for the eventual construction of at least ten major
wood processing factories, each with an intake capacity of 250,000 m  of logs
annually. These would produce plywood, lumber and probably particle board
and other end products designed to achieve the fullest possible utilization
of the logs being processed, and maximize the value added. These factories
would represent a possible area for future internationally financed invest-
ments, though it would be premature to initiate feasibility studies under
the present project.
1.08      The Government's current objectives for the forestry sector are
set out in the Five Year Plan for Economic, Social and Cultural Development
1976-80. A major preoccupation has been the depletion of the country's high
forest resources by inadequately controlled exploitation and the infiltration
of the rural population. New farms are quickly established in forest areas
rendered accessible by roads constructed for the extraction of timber. In the
period 1956-66, the area of high forest was reduced from an initial 16 million
to 9 million ha. Between 1966 and 1974 it was further reduced to 5.4 million
ha. The most recent Government estimates indicate that the area of exploit-
able forest is being reduced at the rate of 0.5 million ha a year due to
agricultural encroachment upon logged over areas. Were this situation allowed
to continue, the country would become a net importer of 3timber before the end
of the century, with local demand exceeding 2 million m a y5ar and an annual
production that would have fallen to less than 0.5 million m . The Govern-
ment's development objectives are, in essence, the preservation and rational
exploitation of 2.5 million ha of the remaining natural high forest, the
maintenance of 1.7 million ha of savannah forest and the creation of 0.5
million ha of timber plantations by the reforestation of areas that have
already been logged and now have limited potential as nataral forest.



- 4 -
1.09      The Five Year Plan called for the creation of 38,000 ha of planta-
tion between 1976 and 1980 at a cost of CFAF 9.2 billion (US$42 million)
or US$1,100 per ha. The planting program would then continue at a rate
of about 10,000 ha a year until the target of 0.5 million ha was achieved
around the year 2026. At the end of this period, the annual sustainable
production of timber from all sources would have reached 5.7 million m ,
sufficient to supply the domestic market of about 2.8 million m and leave
an exportable surplus of approximately the same volume. Implementation of
this policy has, however, been delayed due to both financial constraints
and a shortage of trained manpower.  It is doubtful whether the reforestation
target rate of 10,000 ha a year can be achieved within the period to be
covered by the proposed project.
1.10      The methods envisaged to reduce, and eventually to halt, the
destruction of the forest for agricultural purposes would include measures
to slow down the movements of population from the savannah areas towards
the southern forests. These migrants comprise both Ivorians and immigrants
from neighboring countries, in particular Upper Volta and Mali.  The farming
populations already in the threatened areas would be encouraged, by a process
of demonstration and education, to move away from their traditional system of
shifting agriculture and to stabilize their holdings by the introduction of
suitable crop rotations. These might eventually include fast growing tree
species as a restorative crop. At the same time, attempts would be made to
increase agricultural yields by the introduction of mechanization, improved
crop varieties, plant protection techniques and the greater use of fertil-
izers. These measures would increase productivity both per man and per unit
area of land, thus substantially reducing the numbers of people and the
area of agricultural land devoted to purely subsistence farming. Further
increases in productivity and efficiency would be expected as a result of
introducing integrated farming systems, producing annual or biennial food
crops and perennial tree crops on the same area of land.
1.11      In the foregoing paragraphs, forestry has been considered primarily
as one of the country's major sources of export earnings and as a provider
of lumber for use on the domestic market.  However, most of the population
is dependent on wood as the principal energy source to meet its basic needs
for heating and cooking, and firewood represents by far the greatest propor-
tion of indigenous consumption. Annual per capita fuel energy requirements
in the I ory Coast have been estimated at 7.6 gigajoules.  This is equivalent
to 0.7 3m of solid wood, or, in national terms, a yearly consumption of 5 mil-
lion m  of timber, a substantially greater3volume than log exports which,
to date, have never exceeded 3.5 million m .
1.12      The environmental implications of a continuing destruction of the
forest cannot be disregarded.  In Af rica, the area of closed tropical forest
has been reduced by over 100 million ha in this century and, in a single
decade, 1963-73, the forest area per capita declined from 2.4 ha to only 0.3
ha. There are now about 300 million ha of impoverished soils under a system
of shifting cultivation. The complete elimination of forests in the humid



- 5 -
tropics would have serious environmental consequences leading, locally, to
soil erosion, and affecting rainfall patterns over a much larger area.
1.13      The concern of the Ivorian Government about the problems facing
the forestry sector has been given practical expression in a number of
ways. Of particular relevance to the proposed project was the decision
taken in 1966 to create a State Company for the Development of Forestry
Plantations (SODEFOR -- Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations
Forestieres -- para 4.02). The Company has, as its principal objective, the
task of studying, and proposing to Government, all measures tending to ensure
the execution of the development plans for forestry production and the asso-
ciated industries, either by direct intervention or by coordinating and
directing the activities of private and public bodies concerned. Established
with an initial capital of CFAF 50 million, SODEFOR has a wider role to play
than is immediately apparent from its title. It is responsible not only for
reforestation but also for the management of the natural forests. It would be
retained as the executing agency for the plantation component of the project.
In 1974, the Department of Waters and Forests in the Ministry of Agriculture
was upgraded into a separate Ministry of Waters and Forests.
1.14      The reforestation program has been planned on the assumption that
the country's greatest need will be for general purpose lumber and that 50%
of the 2.8 million m required on the domestic markets at the beginning of the
next century would be required as sawn timber, about 40% as plywood and 10% as
veneer. Preference would, therefore, be given to species allowing a final cut
after about 25 years. These would be planted at the rate of 8,000 ha a year,
allowing 2,000 ha for longer rotation high quality timbers such as Acajou and
Teak. Six species were proposed in the Five Year Plan -- Cedrela, Cordia,
Frake, Gmelina, Samba and Pine. Three of these -- Cedrela, Frake and Samba,
would predominate on the 20,000 ha of reforestation proposed under the proj-
ect. There are practical problems still to be resolved before the other
species could be planted on a large scale though their eventual inclusion is
foreseen, possibly in the context of a follow-up project.  Meanwhile, data are
being collected on the performance of trial plantings. The scale of the
operation now envisaged, 10,000 ha a year, is far greater than anything
previously attempted. Over the first ten years of its existence, SODEFOR
replanted only 15,000 ha. However, neither the scale of the operation nor the
technique adopted -- line planting of long rotation species -- could provide
sufficient timber to satisfy future demand. The principal changes already
being put into effect are the introduction of mechanized techniques both for
forest clearing and for the maintenance of young plantations, and the financ-
ing of SODEFOR's activities directly out of the national budget rather than
through an allocation of revenues accruing from various taxes levied on
timber. As a part of this new policy, Government has also decided to seek
external financial aid and technical assistance for the forestry sector.
1.15      Plans have been prepared for the creation of a new pulp and paper
industry in the southwest. The factory would be supplied initially from the
felling of the natural forest. Later, plantations would be established using



- 6 -
species suitable for the production of high quality paper. However, doubts
exist regarding the economic viability of this venture, and financing has not
yet been secured. Government is seeking partners from the private sector who
would bring in technical expertise as well as financial support.
1.16      Government's major effort towards increasing timber production is
being put into the conversion of areas of previously logged natural forest
into hardwood timber plantations which can produce up to 10 times more annual
timber growth than the natural forest. While the rational exploitation of
the natural forest in order to enhance its productivity, particularly of high
quality timber, remains a long-term strategic objective, the means of achiev-
ing this increased production are unclear and past efforts have met with
little success. It is for this reason that, in the long-term production fore-
cast, the sustainable offtake of merchantable logs from t4e 2.5 million ha of
retained high forest has been estimated at only about 1 m per ha per annum.
In the shorter term it is going to be difficult to ensure that this allowable
cut is not exceeded.  If control is not achieved, there is a danger that
lumber would have to be imported to cover the production gap that would exist
before the first plantations are available for cutting. However, as the
currently most sought-after timbers become increasingly scarce, it is probable
that species that are not saleable in today's markets will be found perfectly
acceptable, first for the less demanding local trade and, eventually, for
export. To this end, Government is actively pursuing a research program into
uses and market acceptability of secondary species.
1.17      The planned transformation of Ivorian forestry from a largely
destructive and exploitative activity, rapidly exhausting the country's
natural timber resources, to a self-sustaining but still profitable
industry will be neither rapid nor easy. Apart from the lack of finance
already referred to, there is a severe shortage of trained manpower at
all levels. This problem is, however, also receiving the attention of
Government and the facilities for forestry education are being expanded.
1.18      Forestry training and education are seen as proceeding at several
distinct levels. The school for forest guards at Bouafle is responsible for
the most basic level of tuition in practical forestry: the training of guards
for the day-to-day surveillance and proper maintenance of the forest. The
forestry school at Bouake is to be rebuilt and substantially enlarged to
provide about 50 forestry technicians a year who would have received two years
of specialized training, fitting them for a wide range of tasks in practical
forest management.  It is estimated that 1,000 such technicians will even-
tually be required in the context of the present plans for the forestry
sector. Higher level training is provided at the Bouake Agricultural Insti-
tute (ingenieurs des techniques forestieres). Government plans to recruit
forestry specialists to strengthen the staff of this hitherto essentially
agricultural college in order to ensure that the country's need for profes-
sionally competent foresters is met.
1.19      At the highest level of training, university graduates in forestry,
no facilities exist at present within the Ivory Coast and the dozen or so



-7-
Ivorian graduates currently available have all been trained overseas. The
country's overall requirements for forestry education have been the subject
of a number of studies, the most recent commissioned by the FAO in February
1978. The report forms the basis for continuing discussions between the
Bank and the Ivorian authorities concerning the possibility of incorporating
a forestry component in the Bank's next education project. Meanwhile, in
view of the urgency of the need for trained technicians, assistance is being
sought for the forestry schools at Bouake and Banco under a separate project
which has already been appraised by CCCE. Assurances regarding the implemen-
tation of this project were obtained during negotiations.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The proposed 20,000 ha project would form part of an ongoing
reforestation program covering a total of 86,000 ha in the four forest
reserves of Tene, Sangoue, Mopri and Irobo. About 22,000 ha are expected
to have been planted prior to the start of the project which would be in
1979/80. The four areas lie to the northwest of Abidjan between 120 and
290 km from the port (see Map IBRD 13998). All are served by good paved
roads and neither transport nor communications present any difficulties.
Topography and Soils
2.02      The terrain is mostly gently undulating, with slopes rarely exceed-
ing 7% though occasionally reaching 20% in the more broken areas. Altitude
varies between 70 m and 370 m above sea level. Soils are predominantly
ferralitic and range in texture from coarse sands to heavy clays; the pH
varies between 5 and 6. Preliminary surveys have indicated that 70% of the
124,000 ha covered by the four sites selected for reforestation should be
plantable, using mechanized forest clearing techniques. Very sandy areas
would be excluded, as would the poorly drained soils of the valley bottoms
and zones where there is an excessive amount of lateritic gravel or cemented
hardpan. The precise areas to be planted would be defined by detailed soil
and topographical surveys to be carried out on contract. Retaining a forest
cover on these soils is considered the best use of the land.
Vegetation
2.03      The dominant vegetation is high forest; transitional in the two
most northerly reserves, Sangoue and Tene, semi-deciduous at Mopri and
evergreen at Irobo.
Climate
2.04      Mean annual rainfall varies between 1,600 mm at Irobo, the most
southerly of the four sites, and 1,300 mm at Tene, the furthest north.
The principal rainy season is between April and November, interrupted by



- 8 -
a small dry season in August. The major dry season extends from December
through February.  Temperature averages about 27 0C and relative humidity
varies between 60% and 65% depending on the site.
Infrastructure
2.05      The project would benefit from existing SODEFOR facilities which
include good gravelled roads within each area, housing, administrative
buildings, workshops, water supply and electricity. While additional
investment would be required during the project period, the costs would
be substantially below those incurred in the start-up period of a completely
new venture.
Population
2.06      Each of the forest reserves lies close to an existing township;
with populations varying between 7,000 and 35,000. Those seeking work on the
plantations are mostly immigrants from Upper Volta or Mali. Each plantation
would provide regular employment for about 200 persons and no difficulties
would be expected in meeting these requirements.
Agricultural Activities
2.07      Although the four project areas are located within forest reserves,
the land surrounding these reserves is heavily farmed and pressure on the
remaining areas of high forest has been strong. It is partly for strategic
reasons that these concessions have been selected for the first major program
of reforestation. While plantations of any kind are respected as occupied
land, the natural forest belongs by tradition to the people and can be acquired
in many areas by the simple initiative of clearing the land and planting it
with food crops.
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01      The, implementation of the Government's forestry program was hampered
by lack of finance and by lack of trained manpower.  In 1976, the Bank's assis-
tance was requested in financing a project that would both support the refores-
tation program and contribute to the training of forestry technicians. The
project was prepared by an FAO/CP mission which visited the Ivory Coast in
February 1978. It was subsequently agreed that the training component would
be financed separately by CCCE and excluded from the present proposals.
Project Description
3.02      The project would be implemented on four estates over a five year
period and would:



-9-
(a)  clear, and prepare for replanting, about 20,000 ha of
logged-over high forest;
(b)  plant and maintain about 20,000 ha of short to medium
rotation hardwood timber species;
(c)  maintain 22,000 ha of existing plantations;
(d)  construct and maintain 800 km of forest tracks;
(e)  maintain another 800 km of existing forest roads and tracks;
(f)  improve existing housing standards for the permanent work
force; and
(g)  provide technical assistance to:
(i) the Ministry of Waters and Forests; and
(ii) the project agency SODEFOR.
A. The Plantation Component
3.03      The plantation component would be of crucial importance to the
whole reforestation program. It would demonstrate the technical and economic
viability of converting areas of depleted natural high fo-rest to monocultures
of selected hardwood timber species with greatly enhanced productivity. Its
successful implementation would pave the way for the eventual realization of
the Government's plans to create half a million ha of timber plantations with
a sustainable annual productive capacity, on a 25 year rotation basis, of
2.25 million m3 of logs (para 1.09).
3.04      The project would contribute to the ongoing program of reforesta-
tion on four of the eight sites already selected for plantation development.
Planting would take place at the rate of 1,000 ha a year for five years at
each of the four locations, Tene, Sangoue, Mopri and Irobo (Map IBRD 13998).
The new plantings and some 22,000 ha previously planted would be maintained
during the project period. Priority would be given to achieving the objec-
tives of the project and no resources provided under project financing would
be diverted to activities on the other four estates.
Land Clearing
3.05      In the context of a planned 10,000 ha a year planting program,
manual felling of the forest would be impracticable. Therefore, SODEFOR has
opted for mechanized knocking-down and windrowing. In the past, this work



- 10 -
was generally carried out under contract. For its 1978/79 program, SODEFOR is
hiring equipment to carry out 2,000 ha of land clearing on force account and
has negotiated contracts for the clearing of a further 2,000 ha to complete
the year's program. Problems have been encountered in the past in coordi-
nating contract land clearing with salvage logging--the recuperation of
merchantable timber at the time of knocking down--and these potentially
important revenues have not been realized. Moreover, contract clearing is
expensive, currently US$1,400 per ha including value added tax of about
US$270 per ha. Equipment hire, although leaving SODEFOR in command of its
operations, is also expensive in terms of effective machine hours actually
achieved (approximately US$1,100 per ha). Taking these problems into account,
the most satisfactory solution for the future would be for SODEFOR to invest
in its own fleet of heavy tractors and do all land clearing on force account.
It is estimated that this would cost about US$900 per ha including depreci-
ation and overheads. Since SODEFOR is already equipped with the necessary
wheeled tractors, maintenance during the first three years after planting
would also be mechanized. Plantation development costs have been appraised
on the basis of these techniques.
Choice of Species
3.06      The three major species to be planted under the project would be
Frake (Terminalia superba) and Samba (Triplochiton scleroxylon), both indige-
nous fast-growing whitewoods, and the exotic Cedrela (Cedrela odorata). The
planting program is shown by species for each of the four sites in Table
III.1. No Samba would be planted at Irobo where ecological conditions are
unsuitable for this species. Framire (Terminalia ivorensis), although pre-
viously planted by SODEFOR, would be excluded from large-scale planting under
the project because of a dieback problem which has not yet been satisfactorily
resolved. It would, however, be planted in admixture with Frake (T. superba)
in such a proportion that, if the die-back problem is resolved, the main
crop after final thinning would be largely Framire, which provides the more
valuable timber. Gmelina arborea and Cordia alliodora, both exotics producing
utility lumber, could also be planted on a limited scale in order to increase
the variety of timber produced. The areas to be planted would be decided
during the project, and in the case of Cordia would depend on seed supplies.
Propagation
3.07      Samba (Triplochiton scleroxylon) is not a prolific seed producer and
in unfavorable years supplies are practically unobtainable. This species has,
therefore, to be propagated vegetatively using rooted cuttings from multiplica-
tion gardens established for the purpose.  The Terminalia species and Cedrela
(C. odorata) would be produced initially from seed. However, they can all be
readily propagated from cuttings and, in the longer term, it is expected that
clonal material would replace seedlings, thus ensuring more uniform stands of
trees and higher yields. A search would be made for elite parent trees that
could be used for the creation of the new clones (stocks of genetically
identical plants propagated from an individual parent by vegetative means).



- il -
Nurseries
3.08      All plants would be grown in plastic "pots" (polybags) in irrigated
nurseries and material would be ready for field planting at the onset of the
rains. This technique both reduces losses due to transplanting shock on
transfer to the field and extends the planting season, thereby allowing a
more efficient use of the labor force. Seedling nurseries would be relocated
at sites appropriate to each year's planting program. The clonal nurseries,
initially for Samba only but later including other species, would be permanent
with fixed installations for propagation and irrigation.
Field Planting
3.09      All species would be planted at a spacing of 3.75 m x 3.75 m giving
a theoretical density of 711 trees per ha, reduced, in practice, to 600 by
the loss of 12.5% of the area (one row in eight) due to windrows and 3% for
roads and firebreaks. About three-quarters of the initial stand would be
eliminated by a series of selective thinnings over the first 12 years. The
remaining 150 trees would be grown on to produce a final cut at about 25 years
of age, the age varying somewhat according to species.
Maintenance
3.10      The SODEFOR plantations are already equipped with wheeled tractors
and a variety of tillage implements which allow most of the maintenance tasks
to be mechanized. Since the facilities exist, these methods would be continued
under the project. However, the costs are high and attempts would be made
during the project period to evolve new methods, including the introduction
of cover crops and the use of herbicides, either to reduce or even to replace
mechanical tillage as a means of controlling weeds in the early years. The
results of these trials would be reviewed after three or four years. If the
new methods are shown to give better results they would subsequently be
applied on an industrial scale. Although the risks from fire are not high
under these conditions, adequate fire protection measures are incorporated
in the maintenance program.
Plantation Tracks
3.11      The project would finance the construction, and maintenance during
the project period, of 800 km of tracks to service the new plantations. A
further 800 km of existing tracks, serving already planted areas, would also
be maintained. Both primary and secondary tracks would be of the simplest
construction since they would be required only for access during the plant-
ing period and fire protection patrols subsequently. No heavy traffic
would be carried until final cutting of the timber 20 years later. The
cost of upgrading the main roads to meet this future need has been taken
into account in assessing the stumpage value of the logs (para 5.06).



- 12 -
Housing
3.12      The immediate housing needs for both staff and labor on the four
plantations would have been largely met by SODEFOR's ongoing construction
program prior to the start of the project. Two new management houses would
be required at Tene for technical assistance staff. Finance would also be
provided under the project for additional labor housing in anticipation of
an increasing proportion of married workers and a continuing improvement in
standards of accommodation.
B. Technical Assistance
3.13      A total of 7 technical assistance posts would be financed under
the project:
(a)  Ministry of Waters and Forests (MIEF)
- 3 positions: a forest economist responsible for evalu-
ating the project activities of SODEFOR, providing MEF
with guidelines for future project preparation; a finan-
cial controller responsible for ensuring SODEFOR's cost
accounting system is implemented, assisting MEF and
SODEFOR in the preparation of their budgets and budget
control, procurement and disbursement, and helping
SODEFOR to set up quarterly financial reports; a silvi-
culturist responsible for designing and implementing
programs for sustained yield exploitation of the forest
reserves, implementing a program for improving the
quality and yields of the forest, studying the problems
of the savannah.
(b) SODEFOR
- 4 positions: two at Headquarters; a deputy to the
director of reforestation with wide experience of
industrial plantations and the mechanization of land
clearing operations in high forests, and a cost
accountant to organize and implement cost accounting
systems for the reforestation programs; and two in the
field at Tene: a silviculturist responsible for the
management of the pilot chantier at Tene including devel-
opment of improved plantation techniques for application
on all SODEFOR estates and coordinating research between
CTFT and SODEOR; and an engineer responsible for mechanized
operation research and maintenance.
3.14      Each of these posts would be filled by international recruitment
since suitably qualified nationals are not yet available. Detailed terms



- 13 -
of reference, as discussed and agreed during negotiations, are at Annex 1.
Local counterpart staff would be appointed both in SODEFOR and in the
Ministry with a view to Ivorianization of these positions at the end of the
project period. Total cost would be about US$3.0 million; 35 man-years at
an average cost of US$85,000, and involving a' range of from US$70,000 to
US$90,000 per annum (1979 terms). The prior appointment of the deputy
director of reforestation and the cost accountant to be assigned to SODEFOR's
headquarters would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
C. Project Costs
3.15      The cost of the project, inclusive of taxes, is estimated at
CFAF 10,408 million (US$47.3 million) with a foreign exchange component of
56% (CFAF 5,841 million -- US$26.5 million). Since Government does not
propose to exempt goods imported for the project from customs duties, taxes,
at CFAF 1,750 million (US$7.9 million), represent an unusually high propor-
tion of total costs (17%). Project costs net of taxes amount to CFAF 8,658
million (US$39.4 million) of which foreign exchange represents 67%.
3.16      Cost estimates are based on end 1978 prices, and include:
-    Physical contingencies of 10% on civil works and 5% on all
other costs except salaries and wages;
-    Price contingencies compounded as follows:
Inflation factors %
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82-1983/84
Civil works               7          7             7
Salaries and wages       12         10             9
All other costs            6         6             6
Price contingencies have been calculated on estimated base costs plus
physical contingencies. The higher inflation factors on salaries and
wages represent the estimated annual wage inflation in the Ivory Coast.
3.17      Total contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis are equivalent
to 22% of the total project costs or 28% of baseline cost estimates. Detailed
cost estimates are presented in Table III.3 (page 37), and are summarized in
Table 1 (page 15).
D. Proposed Financing
3.18      A Bank loan of US$18 million is proposed.  Additionally, the United
Kingdom's Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) would provide US$12
million equivalent, thus entailing total external financing of US$30 million.



- 14 -
The two loans would finance 63% of project costs inclusive of taxes or 76% of
the project's net-of-tax costs. The loans would thus finance all of the proj-
ect's US$26.5 million of foreign exchange costs and US$3.5 million equivalent
or 27% of the project's net-of-tax local costs.
3.19      The Bank loan would be made to Government for a term of 17 years,
including a five year grace period, at the interest rate prevailing at the
time of Board presentation. The present rate of 7.9% has been used for cal-
culating the debt service. The Bank loan would finance 38% of total project
costs or 46% of the project's net-of-tax costs and 63% of the project's
foreign exchange costs. CDC's loan is expected to be for 25 years including
a seven-year grace period and at an interest rate of 7.5%. Satisfactory con-
clusion of a loan agreement between Government and CDC would be a condition of
effectiveness for the Bank loan.
3.20      Government's contribution would amount to CFAF 3,806 million
(US$17.3 million equivalent) inclusive of taxes and CFAF 2,068 million (US$9.4
million) net-of-tax. If debt servicing of CFAF 1,254 million (US$5.7 million)
is included, Government's net-of-tax contribution during the five-year period
increases to CFAF 3,322 million (US$15.1 million).
3.21      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would
take all necessary measures to ensure that SODEFOR disposed at all times of
sufficient funds, installations, services and other resources to fulfil its
obligations in implementing the plantation component of the project. The
necessary finance would be made available in the form of grants.
3.22      Technical assistance to the Ministry of Waters and Forests,
involving the strengthening of the existing Department of Studies and Pro-
gramming (Bureau d'Etudes et de Programmation) by the creation of three
new posts (para 3.13), would comprise a separate component of the project.
This would be implemented by Government, through the intermediary of the
Ministry, and assurances to this effect were received during negotiations.



- 15 -
Table 1: Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
----CFAF million-----  Exchange  -----US$ million…
Local  Foreign  Total       %      Local  Foreign  Total
Forestry Plantations
Civil Works                  72      89       161    55        0.3    0.4        0.7
Vehicles and Equipment    470   1,429    1,899    75            2.2    6.5       8.7
Personnel                   314      148      462    32         1.4    0.7       2.1
Maintenance/Operation       130      186      316    59        0.6    0.8        1.4
Overhead/Administration   165        71       236    30        0.8    0.3        1.1
Technical Assistance         75     302       377    80        0.3    1.4        1.7
Field Establishment       2,284   1,981    4,265    49        10.4    9.0       19.4
Subtotal              3,510   4,206    7,716    55         16.0   19.1      35.1
Ministry of Waters
and Forests
Vehicles and Equipment        8       12       20    60         -      0.1       0.1
Technical Assistance         -      300       300   100         -      1.4       1.4
Personnel                    18      -         18    -         0.1      -        0.1
Operation                    22      32        54    60        0.1    0.1        0.2
Subtotal                 48      344       392    88        0.2    1.6       1.8
TOTAL BASE COST             3,558   4,550    8,108    56         16.2   20.7      36.9
Contingencies:
Physical                    143      183      326    56        0.7    0.8        1.5
Price                       866   1,108    1,974    56         3.9    5.0        8.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST          4,567   5,841   10,408    56         20.8   26.5      47.3
Taxes                       1,750      -      1,750    -          7.9     -        7.9
Total Project Costs
net of Taxes              2,817   5,841    8,658    67        12.9   26.5       39.4



- 16 -
Table 2: Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
IBRD     CDC      GOVT.    TOTAL
Forestry Plantations
Civil Works (buildings)                        0.4      0.4      0.1       0.9
Vehicles and Equipment                         4.0      4.6       1.4     10.0
Personnel, Admin. & Op. Overheads              -         -       7.1       7.1
Field Costs                                    8.3      5.5      8.1      21.9
Technical Assistance                           1.6       -       0.2       1.8
Sub-total                                  14.3    10.5      16.9      41.7
Ministry of Waters and Forests
Vehicles and Equipment                         0.1       -       -         0.1
Personnel and Operations                       -         -       0.4       0.4
Technical Assistance                           1.6       -       -         1.6
Sub-total                                   1.7       -       0.4       2.1
Unallocated                                    2.0      1.5      -         3.5
Total                                         18.0    12.0       17.3     47.3
Percent of Total                              38       25       37       100
Financing net-of-taxes                        18.0    12.0        9.4     39.4
Percent financing net-of-taxes                46       30       24       100
a/   Less than US$50,000.
E. Procurement
3.23      Contracts of US$100,000 or more, principally for the purchase of
heavy equipment, would be awarded through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Such contracts are expected to aggregate
to about US$9 million of which the Bank loan would finance about US$3.6
million. For equipment and vehicle contracts of US$30,000 to US$100,000,
but totalling no more than US$0.6 million (Bank loan US$0.3 million),
local competitive bidding procedures would be used. Equipment purchases not
exceeding US$30,000 and aggregating to no more than US$0.5 million (Bank loan
US$0.2 million), would be made through consultations with suppliers, or
negotiated contracts, acceptable to the Bank. Purchases would be grouped
whenever practicable in order to derive maximum advantage from bulk procure-
ment. Field operations -- land clearing, construction of forest tracks,
planting and maintenance of the plantations -- would be done under force
account (US$21.9 million total, Bank US$8.3 million). As explained in para
3.05, force account is considered the most efficient way of undertaking these



- 17 -
activities. Contracts for estate housing construction (US$0.9 million of
which Bank US$0.4 million) would be individually small, and, spread over the
four estates, would be unlikely to attract international tenders. They would,
therefore, be awarded on the basis of local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Technical assistance staff (US$3.4 million, of which Bank US$3.2 million)
would be recruited in accordance with acceptable procedures.
F. Disbursements
3.24      The Bank loan would be disbursed over 5-1/2 years to cover the
following expenditures:
(a)  Plantations
(i)  44% of the costs of construction of housing (US$0.4 million);
(ii)  40% of the costs of purchases of vehicles and equipment
(US$4.0 million);
(iii)  38% of the costs of field operations including land
clearing, planting and estate maintenance (US$8.3 mil-
lion); and
(iv)  100% of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
(US$1.6 million).
(b) Ministry of Waters and Forests
(v)  87% of the purchase cost of vehicles and equipment
(US$0.1 million); and
(vi) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of technical
assistance (US$1.6 million).
US$2.0 million would be unallocated.  A schedule of disbursements is at
Table III.4 (page 38). With the exception of category (iii) -- field oper-
ations -- all disbursement claims would be fully documented. Disbursements
for category (iii) would be against certified statements of expenditure with
supporting documentation retained by SODEFOR for examination during super-
vision. SODEFOR's accounting procedures would be strengthened under the
project (para 3.13) to ensure the maintenance of accurate records of the
costs of all operations on each of its plantations, and the annual audit of
SODEFOR's accounts (para 3.25) would include specific verification of such
expenditures.



- 18 -
G. Accounts, Reporting Requirements and Auditing
3.25      SODEFOR would, within the context of its financial accounting
system, keep records consistent with sound accounting practice and adequate
to reflect both its general financial situation and the detailed costs of
operations on the four project estates. SODEFOR would submit quarterly
reports to Government and the colenders containing summary financial informa-
tion and showing actual against budgeted expenditures and statements of
progress achieved and targets for the forthcoming quarter by each estate.
SODEFOR's annual budgets, after approval by Government, would also be made
available to the colenders for comment. Additionally, SODEFOR would maintain
monthly progress reports for each estate with comparisons of targets and
achievements for the month and targets for the forthcoming month. These
would be available for inspection during project supervision. Agreement on
the above procedures was obtained during negotiations.
3.26      SODEFOR would appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
for the annual auditing of its accounts and of expenditures incurred under the
project. The audit report would be submitted to the Bank not later than four
months after the close of SODEFOR's financial year. The auditor's opinion on
project expenditures would include verification whether: (i) goods and
services had been procured from member countries or Switzerland; (ii) goods
had been received or work performed; (iii) payment had been made; (iv) goods
and services financed under the Bank and CDC loans were eligible for such
financing and were used specifically for the project; and a special opinion on
SODEFOR's submission of statements of expenditure for reimbursement of field
operating costs (category iii of para 3.24). Assurances as to the acceptabil-
ity of these procedures were obtained during negotiations.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      All project activities would be implemented under the authority
and direct supervision of the Ministry of Waters and Forests (MEF).
A. The Plantation Component
4.02      The 20,000 ha of timber plantations to be created under the project
would be planted and maintained by the Societe pour le Developpement des
Plantations Forestieres (SODEFOR) acting under a project agreement. The
company's management structure is illustrated in the organigram on page 44.
Control is exercised by an Administrative Council, headed by a President who
represents the Minister of Waters and Forests. He is assisted by a technical
committee which includes representatives of other interested ministers, in-
cluding Economy and Finance and Planning, a representative of the research



- 19 -
institutes and a representative of the private sector. The Managing Director
is responsible to the President for the day-to-day conduct of the company's
affairs.
4.03      The Department of Reforestation, the largest of SODEFOR's four
operating units, was allocated CFAF 2.4 billion (US$10.8 million), 78% of the
company's 1978/79 budget of just over CFAF 3 billion (US$13.8 million), to
carry out its 4,000 ha planting program for the year and to maintain 28,000
ha of existing plantations. The balance of the budget is shared between the
three other departments (delimitation of forests, inventory and forest manage-
ment, and management of old plantations), and the support services grouped
under (i) administration and finance, and (ii) programming and studies.
4.04      SODEFOR has a staff of over 1,100 of whom 25, including seven expa-
triates, are in management positions. Of the expatriates, three are provided
under the French technical assistance program and four, the chief accountant
and three plantation managers, were recruited locally.  The company has been
well managed and has a sound administrative structure.  However, in order to
meet its increased responsibilities under the Five Year Plan, in particular
the acceleration of its reforestation program to 10,000 ha a year, and a more
active participation in the management of the natural forest, it has hired
an independent firm of management consultants to assist in a reorganization
study. With an annual budget which would exceed CFAF 6 billion (US$27 million)
by the end of the project period, the introduction of an appropriate cost
accounting system would be an indispensable feature of the reorganization,
and would be included under the project.
Implementation
4.05      SODEFOR is already geared to annual planting programs of 1,000 ha
a year on each of the four sites which would be further developed under the
project.  This rhythm would be maintained through the five-year project
period. However, some modification would be required subsequently, because
of variations in the total plantable area from one plantation to another,
and the need to ensure a regular supply of logs to the processing factories
when the plantations reach maturity. Operations would be under the control
of the Director of Reforestation, currently an experienced forester whose
services have been made available to SODEFOR under the French technical
assistance program. He would be directly assisted by two specialists to be
recruited under the technical assistance component of the project, a deputy
director experienced in large scale mechanized land clearing operations, and
a cost accountant.
4.06      Each of the four plantations concerned (Map IBRD 13998) is already
staffed with a capable manager, expatriates at Sangoue, Mopri and Irobo and
an Ivorian at Tene. All enjoy considerable autonomy in the day-to-day manage-
ment of their estates. They are supported by two expatriate engineers, one
responsible for Tene and Sangoue, the other for Mopri and Irobo. Under the
proposed project, these engineers would be in charge of the operation and
maintenance of the vehicle fleet, in particular, the heavy equipment to be



- 20 -
purchased under the project for land clearing, and the agricultural tractors
for plantation maintenance. However, in view of the innovative nature of
the project, the field management would also be strengthened by the creation
of two further technical assistance posts. A silviculturist, with prior
experience of developing timber plantations, and an agricultural engineer,
both of whom would be assigned to Tene. They would have line management
responsibilities, the silviculturist taking charge of the plantation, and
would be assisted by Ivorian counterpart staff. Tene would then function as
a pilot plantation for the development of new techniques which, once proven,
would be generally applied on the other SODEFOR estates, first on the three
other project plantations and, in due course, on the new plantations which
would be opened up as the program is expanded to achieve the 10,000 ha a year
target. The technical assistance field staff would make regular advisory
visits to all estates. It has been assumed in costing the project that
the silviculturist would be replaced as estate manager by an Ivorian after
three years, but that all the technical assistance posts would be filled over
the full five year period. The key posts of Director of Reforestation, the
plantation engineers and the estate managers, would, at all times, be occupied
by properly qualified and experienced personnel acceptable to the Bank.
Training
4.07      Personnel with some formal training in forestry may be recruited
either from the Agricultural Institue at Bouake (ingenieurs des techniques
forestieres) or from the forestry schools at Bouake and Banco. The current
shortage of technicians is to be remedied by the expansion of the Bouake
school under a separate project financed by CCCE. SODEFOR itself provides
practical on-the-job training for staff at all levels, and the various
specialists to be recruited under the technical assistance component of the
project would be expected to play an active role in furthering this training
effort.
Research
4.08      Ad hoc experimentation to deal with minor problems peculiar to the
SODEFOR plantations, such as localized pest or disease outbreaks, would be
the responsibility of the technical assistance staff. In the event of more
serious difficulties, demanding the resources of a fully equipped research
institute for their proper investigation, SODEFOR would continue to call
upon the assistance of the Technical Center for Tropical Forestry (CTFT)
which already provides it with research services on a contractual basis for
specific studies. The CTFT program is well oriented towards the needs of
the industry and should be capable of providing solutions to the practical
problems associated with the scaling up of SODEFOR's reforestation program.
Of immediate value would be their work on vegetative multiplication of Samba,
the genetic improvement of other short to medium rotation species, and studies
on the techniques of plantation maintenance, including the use of chemicals
for weed control.



- 21 -
B. The Ministry of Waters and Forests
4.09      The existing Department of Studies and Programming within the
Ministry would be reinforced by the recruitment of three specialists (para.
3.13). The forest economist would be particularly concerned with the eval-
uation of SODEFOR's reforestation program and the most effective utilization
of its production (salvage logs and thinnings). He would also assist in the
implementation of sector studies and the preparation of future projects.
The financial controller would likewise be closely concerned with the super-
vision of SODEFOR's activities, the maintenance of its accounts and financial
controls, and its procurement procedures. The silviculturist would be more
particularly involved in the problems associated with the management of the
natural forest and would liaise closely with CTFT. Detailed terms of reference
for all technical assistance staff, which were agreed during negotiations, are
at Annex 1. The Department would prepare, not later than December 31, 1980, a
work program which would be made available to the Bank for comment.
V. PRODUCTION
Exploitation of the High Forest
5.01      To date, exploitation of the high forest in the Ivory Coast has
followed the historic pattern of selectively logging only a few species with
high value on the export markets. A limited control has been achieved by
declaring a minimum girth limit for each species below which it was forbidden
to cut. However, many smaller trees of these valuable species are damaged
or destroyed during logging operations, and then, where population pressure
in the area is high, farmers follow the loggers and cut and burn most of the
remaining timber, i respective of its value.  Logging yields in the past have
been3as low as 10 m (r) per ha, even when inventories have shown that up to
30 m per ha were available.
5.02      Since about 1966, when intensive exploitation of the forests com-
menced, 10 species out of a total of over 250 have dominated the production.
The an ual cut of the five most îaluable of these species fell from 1.7 mil-
lion m in 1967 to 0.6 million m in 1975. Indications are that the most
sought after species will become increasingly scarce as offtake continues
to exceed the rate of renewal attainable under present management practices.
Already, the effects of this scarcity are being felt and hitherto unacceptable
species are gaining a place in the market. The Ivory Coast now exports and
utilizes on the domestic market about 30 different species. This number is
expected to increase as the highest grades of timber become scarcer and even
more expensive, and advances in wood technology expand the possibilities of
making effective use of the lower grades.
Salvage Logging and Thinnings
5.03      Inventories already carried out on the arias that would be reforested
under the project indicate that there are about 8 m per ha of export quality



- 22 -
timber that could be recovered either before or during forest clearing opera-
tions. In the past, the substantial revenues that could accrue from this
salvage logging have not been fully realized. Land clearing has been carried
out under contract and it has not been possible to coordinate the activities
of the contractors with those of the logging companies. With the introduction
under the project of land clearing by force account, a more efficient opera-
tion should be possible. In evaluating the project, rates of return have been
calculated both with and without revenues from salvage logging.
5.04      In order to achieve the target dimensions in the final stand of
trees, it is necessary to plant at a high initial density and periodically
remove unthrifty trees by selective thinning. This operation helps to control
the growth of the remaining trees, ensuring straight stems free of undesirable
side branches. For Frake (Terminalia superba) and Samba (Triplochiton
scleroxylon), the initial density of 600 trees per ha would be reduced to 350
ha after four years. A further selection would be made in year seven, reducing
the stand to 250 trees per ha. These early thinnings are not expected to have
any commercial value and would go to waste. After 12 years, a final thinning
would be carried out leaving 150 trees per ha to grow on to maturity. The 100
trees removed would have a diameter of about 20 cm and would be suitable,
after preservation, for either power t ansmission poles or light sonstruction
work. The volume would be about 36 m per ha for Frake and 40 m per ha for
Samba.
5.05      The third species, Cedrela (Cedrela odorata), is exotic and data on
its performance in the Ivory Coast are still somewhat limited. Although a
similar planting density and early thinning routine would be followed, the
final thinning would have to take place earlier than with Frake and Samba,
probably after 10 years instead of 12. Although the logs should be of sale-
able dimensions no revenues have been assumed from the sale of thinnings
because of doubts regarding the quality of timber from such young trees.
Yields at Maturity
5.06      In the Ivory Coast there are as yet no mature plantations of any
of the species to be planted under the project. Available data from CTFT
measurements in 12 year old sample plots, indicate, however, that the follow-
ing average rotations and yields would be expected under the conditions
obtaining on the four estates:
-    Cedrela        209 m3 per ha after 20 years
-    Frake          216 m3 per lia after 24 years
-    Samba          250 m  per ha after 25 years
Historically, the tropical timber trade has utilized large diameter logs
(usually in excess of 60 cm), cut from mature natural forest grown trees
with a rotation age from between 60 and 120 years dependent on species.
Although the peeling of smaller diameter logs (down to even 30 cm) has
been proven technically feasible on a commercial scale, it is expected
that preference will continue to be given to large diameter logs as long



- 23 -
as they are available. Based on CTFT sample plot measurements and growth
forecasts, selected species grown in plantations should, provided they are
adequately maintained and correctly thinned, be capable of producing 50 cm
diameter logs on rotations between 20 and 30 years. At present, it is diffi-
cult to predict what will be the minimum acceptable diameter for peeling by
the year 2000, but the declining availability of high quality forest logs of
large diameter will certainly result in a shift towards the use of smaller
material. The current trend towards processing in the country of origin is
also expected to create a demand for smaller diameter logs. In assessing the
economic and financial rates of return on the project two alternative assump-
tions have been tested regarding the rotation period. First, on a 25 year
rotation, the final cut would consist partly of logs providing timber of
export quality (average diameters of 50 cm) and partly of logs suitable only
for the domestic market. Second, on a 20 year rotation, with reduced total
volumes and log diameters, all the timber would be processed locally for the
domestic market. The latter assumption is fully justifiable in the light of
the strong domestic demand for lumber, veneer, and plywood expected to develop
by the year 2000. No reliable data base exists for forecasting what costs may
be in the wood processing industries in 20 years time, when the plantation
grown timber would be cut. Therefore, all project benefits have been assessed
on projected stumpage values (the value of the timber in the standing tree
before cutting, extraction and processing costs are incurred).
Total Production
5.07      Maximum volumes of timber that could be expected from the 20,000 ha
of project plantings and 68,000 ha of the total program on the four planta-
tions are indicated below:
Salvage
Logging   Thinnings    Final Cut    Total
…'-------------  '000 m…--------
Project  20,000 ha         160          439          4,385     4,984
Program  68,000 ha         545        1,587         15,107    17,239
Details of production are shown by species and year in the project file,
and alternative yield assumptions are discussed in Chapters VII and VIII.
Production Without Project
5.08      Since the project would form an integral part of the ongoing
program of reforestation, to which Government is already committed, at Tene,
Sangoue, Mopri and Irobo, it is more appropriate to consider the situation
with and without the total 68,000 ha than the possible impact of the 20,000
ha that would be planted under the project.  Without the program, it is
doubtful whether any of these areas could have been retained as productive
natural forest. Previous logging activities had resulted in the extraction



- 24 -
of the readily accessible, high quality, exportable timber and, without
Government's initiative in commencing the reforestation, all four sites
would have been virtually valueless as sources of timber at least over the
next 20 years. During this period, it would be almost impossible to prevent
infiltration by villagers intent on establishing food farms, and it is a
legitimate assumption that, in less than 20 years, all the cultivable land
would have been absorbed into the traditional pattern of shifting agricul-
ture. In terms of contributing to the country's need for timber, without
program production would, therefore, be zero. The possible value of the
land under alternative uses is considered in Chapter VIII.
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
6.01      It is Government's intention that all timber produced under the
project would be processed within the country in order to maximize value
added. Logs would be converted into etther lumber, veneer or plywood and
the end products would be offered on both the export and domestic markets.
6.02      World consumption of tropical hardwoods is expected to grow at an
average of 3.8% per annum between 1974-76 and 1990 (IBRD Report 814/78;
June 1978). This compares with a growth rate of about 6% between 1960 and
1976, reflecting the expected slower world economic growth and the effect of
rising prices   World demand for tropical hardwoods is expected to reach
182 million m (r) by 1990 and, if the same growth rate were to be maintained,
would exceed 300 million m3 by 2004.
6.03      Production would keep pace with this demand despite diminishing
volumes of the most sought after species from traditional producers. In-
creased production would be expected from Oceania, Indonesia, South America,
and currently inaccessible areas of Central and West Africa. However, log-
.ging and transportation costs in these regions would be higher and real prices
for top grade tropical hardwoods are expected to increase by about 3% per
annum over the next 30 to 40 years. The Ivory Coast will continue to enjoy
a comparative advantage over its African competitors due to less difficult
logging conditions and the relative proximity of its forests to the major
ports, resulting in lower internal transport costs -- about half those in-
curred in Congo and Cameroon.
6.04      Details are given in the project file of the changes in value and
volume of the principal species that would be grown under the project.  The
decline in constant terrs of the price received for Frake from the Ivory Coast
reflects the drop in average quality associated with the big increase in the
volume exported. The quality of the plantation grown timber would be expected
at least to equal that of Samba and the same price has been assumed for the
two species. On the basis of technical qualities there is no apparent justi-
fication, other than fashion, for the big difference in the current prices of
Frake and Framire.



- 25 -
6.05      There is no doubt that plantation grown tropical hardwoods from
West Africa; in particular Nigeria, Gabon, Congo, Cameroon, Ghana and the
Ivory Coast; will make an increasingly important contribution to world timber
supplies. Additional research is however required to perfect methods of
sawing, seasoning, and preservation that would exploit the technical qualities
of these timbers to best advantage and promote and popularize their use. A
regional program is currently under considerationa by FAO. During negotia-
tions the Ivorian delegation expressed interest in being associated with this
work.
6.06      In the years ahead, prices are expected to improve in real terms for
all the species to be grown under the project. A rate of increase of 2% per
annum has been assumed for logs of export quality, a lower figure than the 3%
predicted for the highest quality redwoods (para 6.03). For timber suitable
only for the domestic market, an increase of 1% has been assumed. Base prices
have been calculated on expected mid-1979 stumpage values derived from recent
market data and price trends in the Ivory Coast. Expyrt quality Cedrela has
an estimated value of about CFAF 20,000 (US$90) per m , and domestic quality
Cedrela and the other species (of lower quality) about CFAF 10,000 (US$45)
3
per m . Table VI.1 shows how these values were calculated.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
7.01      Estimates of financial returns from the plantation component are
presented in Table 3.  Returns have been assessed both for the 20,000 ha of
plantings that would be financed under the project and for the full 68,000 ha
planting program scheduled for the four estates of which the 20,000 ha of
project plantings would form an integral part. Costs include physical con-
tingencies (para. 3.16) and taxes. Yield and price assumptions are as at
Chapters V and VI. Revenues are based on the assumptions that: (i) only
50% of the potential revenues would be achieved from salvage logging and
thinnings, and (ii) only 20% of the final cut would be of export quality, 80%
being utilized on the domestic market. Revenue assumptions are consistent
with those used for the economic analysis of Chapter VIII. They reflect the
uncertainties concerning SODEFOR's capacity in the short term to fully exploit
opportunities for sale of salvage logs and thinnings, and uncertainties
concerning world market demand for final cut timber.



- 26 -
Table 3: Financial Returne from Plantations /a
Financial Net Present
Rate of    Value per
Analytical Assumptions                                   Return    Hectare lb
(%)     (CFAF '000)
1.  Point Estimate                              Project   10.4           31
Program   12.1           98
2. Sensitivity
(a)  Costs increased by 20% /c              Project    9.4          -51
Program   11.1           55
(b)  100% realization of poten-             Project   11.3           90
tial benefits from salvage            Program   13.2          140
logging and thinnings /c
(c)  No revenues from salvage               Project    9.6          -27
logging and thinnings /c              Program   11.2           56
3. Range
(a)  Estimated maximum (final               Project   12.2          181
cut 60% export, 40%                   Program   14.1          208
domestic; plus 100% salvage
logging and thinnings)
(b)  Estimated minimum (final cut           Project    8.8          -87
100% domestic quality,                Program   10.3           12
no revenues from salvage
logging and thinnings)
/a   Costs and benefits in constant 1979 prices with costs inclusive of
physical contingencies (para 3.16) and taxes.
/b   At the estimated opportunity cost of capital for the Ivory Coast of 10%.
lc   Other assumptions as for point estimate.
7.02      The financial rate of return of the project's 20,000 ha of planta-
tions is estimated at 10.4%. The higher rate of return (12.1%) for the full
68,000 ha program is due in part to certain economies of scale and also to
the assumed continuing inerease in the real value of timber which has greater
impact on the program on account of the extended implementation period.
Completion of the 68,000 ha, which is anticipated by Government as part of its
overall reforestation program (para 1.14), would be necessary in order to



- 27 -
realize long term plans for vertical integration, using these plantations
as a source of timber for domestic wood processing industries that would be
set up in close proximity to each estate. While additional benefits would be
expected from wood processing, these have not been taken into account in
computing the project's financial and economic rates of return.
7.03      Revenues from salvage logging and thinnings have a significant
influence upon financial returns.  With full benefits from salvage logging and
thinnings the project's financial rate of return is estimated to rise to 11.3%
while without such revenues it falls to 9.6%. Equivalent values for the
program are 13.2% and 11.2%. Particular attention would therefore be given
during project implementation to the recovery of export quality logs during
land clearing operations and to investigating market opportunities for
the sale of thinnings.
7.04      Cost increases of 20% would lower financial rates of return by about
one percentage point. Such an increase is, however, considered unlikely since
estimates have been based on actual SODEFOR experience and, in addition, in-
clude physical contingencies. The rate of return is far more dependent upon
variations in benefits. Under the "best" and "worst" cases considered
(Table 3 -- Range) the project rate of return varies between 12.2% and 8.8%
while for the program the figures are 14.1% and 10.3%. Table 3 also shows net
present values; it will be noted that the rather small percentage difference
in the point estimate rates of return for the project and the program (1.7%)
results in a more-than-threefold increase in the net present value per
hectare, CFAF 31,000 (US$141) for the project and CFAF 98,000 (US$445) for
the program.
7.05      While investment in forestry plantations of this type appears to be
sound both financially and economically (Chapter VIII), such investments call
for a substantial financial commitment over a sustained period.  This is
shown in Tables VII.1, the estimated financial cash flow, and Table VII.2
which sets out the investment cost to Government up to the time when debt
service is completed. In view of Government's commitment to complete the
full 68,000 ha program at the four estates and the evident justification for
doing this (para 7.02), both tables are based on the full 68,000 ha program.
Figures are in current terms up till the first year of felling in 1998 and are
thereafter in constant 1998 terms. Allowances for inflation are as at para
3.16 for the five year project period and thereafter at 6% per annum.
7.06      SODEFOR's net cumulative deficit relating to the implementation
of the 20,000 ha project would reach a maximum in 1991, amounting to CFAF 11.4
billion (US$52 million). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government would provide the funds necessary to bring these plantings to
maturity. Final cut would commence around the year 2000 and, over the ensuing
10 years, would generate revenues which would be expected to exceed CFAF 220
billion (US$1,000 million).



- 28 -
7.07      Completion of the 68,000 ha, which would include the above 20,000
ha, would call for further investment by Government of about CFAF 18 billion
(US$81 million) which would be eligible for international financing. Addi-
tional revenues expected from the full program, with the final cut taking
place between 2000 and 2025, would be about CFAF 660 billion (US$3,000 mil-
lion).
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project, which would represent the Bank's first lending for
forestry in the Ivory Coast, conforms with objectives set out in the recent
Forestry Sector Policy paper (IBRD Feb. 1978) and comes at a time when the
Ivorian Government is making a major effort to implement a strategy to ensure
the rational long-term exploitation of the country's timber producing poten-
tial. The 0.5 million ha of logged-over high forest that would be converted
under the plan to hardwood timber plantations would have a production many
times greater than the depleted forests which they would replace. The project
would contribute to the first phase of this plan.
8.02      Readily quantifiable benefits of the proposed project would derive
from the incremental timber production on the 20,000 ha of plantations. In
addition, the technical assistance to be provided to the Ministry of Waters
and Forests, at a cost of US$1.8 million (5% of project base costs), would
substantially strengthen the Department of Studies and Programming. The
Department has a major role to play in the development of management tech-
niques that will ensure the preservation of the country's remaining areas
of natural high forest while at the same time exploiting them to maximum
economic advantage. The problems of the savannah forests would also receive
attention, as would the possibility of introducing tree-farming as a means
of creating a more stable agricultural system. The aim would be to reduce
*dependence on the traditional shifting cultivation which has already been
responsible for the destruction of some two-thirds of the country's natural
forests.
8.03      Analysis of costs and benefits has been confined to the project's
plantation component (US$35.1 million or 95% of project base costs) involving
the reforestation of four reserves: Tene, Sangoue, Mopri and Irobo. These
areas occupy à total of about 86,000 ha and include 17,500 ha of planta-
tions planted between 1966 and 1978. Although maintenance of these plantings
would be financed under the project (about US$3 million or 8% of project base
costs), they have been excluded from the economic analysis. Incremental
economic returns from such maintenance would clearly be very high as the main
investment has already been committed. For the remaining 68,000 ha scheduled
for planting between 1979 and 2000, economic returns have been calculated for
the 20,000 ha of project plantings and for the full 68,000 ha program which
would include the project plantings.



- 29 -
8.04      In the analysis, costs and benefits are expressed in constant mid-
1979 terms in CFAF net of identifiable taxes but including physical contin-
gencies on costs (para 3.16). The financial exchange rate of CFAF 220:US$
is used because recent indicators of the net effect of Ivory Coast's system of
import and export tariffs indicate minimum overall distortions (Ivory Coast's
SCF is currently being recalculated but provisional indicators suggest a value
close to unity). Labor is costed at market rates (net of tax) as the higher
remunerations of the project's senior staff are representative of their
scarcity value to the country, and manual labor is expected to be, as at
present, substantially composed of immigrant workers. Benefits are calculated
assuming that: (i) only 50% of potential benefits from salvage logging and
thinnings would be realized; (ii) 20% of final cut timber would be of export
quality, the rest being of lower grades suitable only for domestic usage; and
(iii) real prices would increase by 2% per annum for export quality timber and
by 1% per annum for the domestic market. These price increases, which are
below the 3% per annum forecast for top quality tropical hardwoods (para
6.03), reflect uncertainties concerning the quality of the wood that can be
produced under plantation conditions and its acceptability on international
markets. Estimated plantation yields are as at Chapter V and base prices as
at Chapter VI and Table VI.4. Cost and benefit streams are presented at
Table VIII.1.
8.05      Under the above assumptions the economic rate of return (ERR) is
estimated at 11.5% for the project (20,000 ha) and 13.0% for the program
(68,000 ha). The higher return from the program is attributable to some
economies of scale and to the assumed continuing increase in the real value
of timber over the longer period covered by the program. An alternative
measure of economic viability, net present values (NPV) are also shown in
Table 4. In order to facilitate comparison between the project and the
program these values have been calculated on a per hectare basis and are
also shown as a percentage of the present value of costs.
Table 4:  Economic Returns from Plantation Investment
Economic Rate   Net Present Value       Net Present
of Return /1   Present Value of           Value /2
Costs             CFAF'000/ha
Project (20,000 ha)              11.5               29                   97
Program (68,000 ha)              13.0               70                   128
/1   Discount rate at which the net present value becomes zero.
/2   Net present value = benefits minus costs, both discounted at 10%, the
estimated opportunity of capital in Ivory Coast.



- 30 -
Alternatives to the Project
8.06      Environmentally acceptable alternative uses for the project areas
would be (i) maintenance of the existing forest by appropriate control
measures, or (ii) the introduction of some other perennial crop. The first
option would preserve the tree cover and would thereby maintain the beneficial
climatic effects of forested land but it would produce no direct incremental
net benefits. These reserves have already been logged over several times
leaving mainly low value species: the costs associated with additional
logging operations over the next few decades would probably more than offset
the incremental value of timber obtained. As to the second option, rubber
would be a possible alternative at Irobo, though not at the other three
sites where climatic conditions would not be suitable. However, on the
basis of current costs, and yield expectations under Irobo conditions, it
is estimated that a rubber estate would have a lower ERR than the timber
plantation, 9.6% compared with 11.5%, and a negative net present value at
an opportunity cost of capital of 10%. The comparison is illustrated
graphically in Figure 1.
Sensitivity
8.07      Sensitivity to variations in benefits is illustrated in Table 5
which covers a range of benefits judged to incorporate maximum and minimum
expectations. For the "maximum," it is assumed that full benefits are ob-
tained from salvage logging and thinnings and that 60% of the final cut is
of export quality. At the other extreme -- the "minimum" -- no benefits
are assumed from salvage logging and thinning operations and all of the final
cut is assumed to go for domestic consumption. Under the best case, economic
rates of return are 13.4% for the project and 15.1% for the program; under
the worst case, the figures are 9.7% for the project and 11.0% for the program.
8.08      Crossover values are also provided in Table 5.  These indicate the
changes in costs and benefits required to reduce the net present value to zero
(or, alternatively, the economic rate of return to 10%, the estimated oppor-
tunity cost of capital in the Ivory Coast). Crossover values for costs are
29% for the project and 70% for the program. Benefits would have to fall by
22% for the project and by 41% for the program.
8.09      Results of the above tests are presented graphically in Figures 2
and 3.  In Figure 2, "maximum," "mean," and "minimum" benefits are plotted
separately for the project and the program against their respective cost
curves. It will be observed from the intersection points of the cost and
benefit plots, and their relationship to the opportunity cost of capital
line, that the program remains viable even under the least favorable assump-
tions concerning benefits. The project, on the other hand, would become
marginal if benefits decreased towards the worst case assumption at Table 5.
Figure 3 shows the locus of cost/benefit crossover values at a 10% opportunity
cost of capital and the effect of various changes in costs and benefits.
Under the most adverse circumstances envisaged, costs could increase by up to



- 31 -
20% and benefits fall by 27% (corresponding with the minimum benefits assump-
tion of Table 5). The box contains all combinations of these adverse circum-
stances whereas the triangle contains only the various combinations of changes
in costs and benefits under which the net present value remains positive at a
10% opportunity cost of capital.  For the program, the net present value
remains positive even under the worst assumptions. For the project, there are
many cost:benefit combinations where the net present value would be negative.
Table 5: Sensitivity Tests
Economic Rate   Net present   Crossover Values
of Return         Value       Costs   Benefits
%         CFAF'000/ha              _   %
Point Estimate
Project                             11.5              97          29        -22
Program                             13.0             128          70        -41
Costs up 20%
Project                             10.4              29          24         -7
Program                             12.0              92          42        -29
Maximum Benefits /1
Project                             13.4             248          73        -42
Program                             15.1             238         131        -57
Minimum Benefits /2
Project                              9.7             -20          -6         +6
Program                             11.0              43          23        -19
Crossover Values    CFAF'000/ha
Appraisal       Crossover       Percentage
Point Estimate       Estimates /3       Values         Changes
Project   Costs          341             438             +29
Benefits      438             341             -22
Program   Costs          182             310             +70
Benefits      310             182             -41
/1   Assumes final cut 60% export, 40% domestic quality; plus 100% salvage
logging and thinnings.
/2   Assumes final cut 100% domestic quality; no revenues from salvage
logging and thinnings.
/3   Present values at 10% opportunity cost of capital.



- 32 -
Rlsks
8.10      Reforestation of tropical high forest with short to medium rotation
hardwood timber species has not previously been attempted in West Africa on
the scale now proposed, and the principal risks of the project stem from its
innovative nature. The major costs for this type of operation are, however,
fairly well established, particularly those for land clearing, planting and
initial maintenance which are based upon past experience within SODEFOR and
on data obtained from other tree crop projects. Furthermore, SODEFOR's man-
agerial capacity has been built up over a decade of operations and would be
further strengthened under the project in key technical areas.
8.11      The project's main risk concerns the market demand for the planta-
tion grown t mber. The sale of export quality salvage logs obtained during
land clearing (para 5.03) requires coordination of clearing operations with
the activities of logging companies. This was not possible when land clearing
was done under contract but should be achievable with good management under
force account. The sale of thinnings, for transmission poles or light con-
struction work (para 5.04), should also be possible although the size of this
market remains uncertain. Regarding the final cut, although the species that
would be planted have an established place on the world market as forest grown
timber, complete information about the technical qualities of the timber when
grown under plantation conditions is not yet available. If specifications
are substantially different from those of forest grown logs, the plantation
timber may not attract the same demand from overseas. Sensitivity tests do,
however, cover the assumption that no benefits would be obtained from salvage
logging and thinnings and that none of the final cut timber would be of export
quality. Under these assumptions the economic rate of return would be 9.7%
for the project and 11.0% for the program. If costs were increased simultan-
eously by 20%, the program would still remain viable (figure 3), but the
project would become marginal with a negative net present value at an oppor-
tunity cost of capital of 10%.
8.12      While the possibility of shortfalls from expected benefits must be
recognized as a risk, data from current trials suggest that 60% export quality
for final cut timber is a realistic target even with currently available plant-
ing material. In the longer term, the planned program of genetic selection
and silvicultural research should raise yields and growth rates far above
those which have had to be assumed in evaluating the project. Such progress
should furthé`r improve the returns from the full 68,000 ha program. Market
prospects for timber are good and with increasing sophistication of wood pro-
cessing techniques, medium grade tropical hardwood timber such as that which
would be produced under the project can be expected to become increasingly
sought after. It is concluded, therefore, that the identifiable risks are
supportable and that the project merits financing, particularly when viewed
within the context of the overall reforestation program and forestry sector
strategy.



- 33 -
IX. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points.
(a)  the seven technical assistance posts would be filled through
international recruitment of staff, with appropriate
qualifications and experience, on terms acceptable to
the Bank. Agreed terms of reference are at Annex 1
(para 3.14);
(b) all technical assistance posts would be backed by Ivorian
counterpart staff (para 3.14);
(c) Government would ensure that SODEFOR disposed at all times
of the funds, installations and other resources needed
to meet its obligations under the Project Agreement
(para 3.21);
(d) the Ministry of Waters and Forests would be responsible
for implementing the technical assistance component of
the project strengthening the Department of Studies and
Programming (para 3.22), a work program would be pre-
pared not later than December 31, 1980, and submitted to
the Bank (para 4.09);
(e) in the post-project period, Government would undertake to
provide financing to maintain and bring to maturity SODEFOR's
plantings financed under the project (para 7.06);
(f) the training capacity of the forestry schools at Banco and
Bouake would be increased to provide sufficient numbers of
adequately trained staff for the country's forestry sector;
and sufficient funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources would be supplied for this purpose (paras 1.18 and
1.19);
(g) Govoernment would cause SODEFOR to keep proper accounts
which would be submitted to independent audit. The
audit report would be made available to the Bank within
four months of the end of SODEFOR's fiscal year and
would show whether the Bank funds had been used for
their intended purposes (paras 3.25 and 3.26); and
(h) SODEFOR's annual budgets would be made available to the
Bank for comment, and SODEFOR would provide quarterly finan-
cial statements and monthly progress reports on project
related activities (paras 3.25 and 3.26).



- 34 -
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the prior appointment of the deputy director of
reforestation and the cost accountant to be assigned
to SODEFOR's headquarters (para 3.14); and
(b) the effectiveness of the CDC loan providing co-financing
for the project (para 3.19).
9.03      Under these assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$18 million for a 17 year period including
a grace period of five years.



IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
Planting Program by Chantier and Species
Hectares per year
Fiscal   3             Sangoue                                Ten-                                 Mopri                                Irobo                                 Totals
Year      Cedrela  Frake  Samba   Total        Cedrela  Frake  Samba   Total         Cedrela  Frake  Samba   Total        Cedrela  Frake  Samba   Total         Cedrela  Frake  Samba   Total
1966/67                                                                                                           224                                  138                                   362
68                                                                                                          295                                   358                                   653
69                                50                                                                        543                                   449                                1,042
70                                 5                                                                        413                                   448                                  866
71                              207                                                                         455                                   444                                1,106
72                              509                                 1,170                                   465                                   510                                2,654
73                               371                                1,365                                   486                                   480                                2,702
74                              279                                 1,314                                   287                                   262                                2,142
75                              453                                   660                                   325                                   176                                1,614
76                              460                                   510                                    254                                  275                                1,499
7 7   1512                                                            507                                     0                                     O                                1:019
78   1                        1,000                                   800                                     O                                     O                                1,800
78/79       500      500     0   1,000           500      500      -   1,000           450      450    100   1,000          500      500      -    1,000         1,950   1,950   100   4,000
80       500      500     0   1,000           500      500          1,000           400      400    200   1,000                            -    1,000         1,900   1,900   200   4,000        ŽZ>
81       450      450   100   1,000           450      450   100   1,000            400      400    200   1,000                            -    1,000         1,800   1,800   400   4,000       I oo 
82       350      350   300   1,000           350      350   300   1,000            300      300    400   1,000                            -    1,000         1,500   1,500 1,000   4,000          n 
83                             1,000                                1 000                                 1,000                            -    1,000         1,500   1,500 1,000   4,000        c fi
84                             1,000                                1,000                                 1,000                               1,000           1,500   1,500 1,000   4,000 =
85                             1,000                                1,000                                 1,000                            -    1,000         1,500   1,500 1,000   4,000
86                             1,000                                1,000                                  1 000                           -    1,000         1,500   1,500 1,000   4,000
87                             1,000                                1,000                                  1,000                           -    1,000         1,500   1,500 1,000   4,000
88                             1,000                                1,000                                  1,000         500      500      -    1,000         1,500   1,500 1,000   4,000
89                             1,000                                1,000                                  1,000         580      580           1.160         1,580   1,580 1,000   4,160
90                             1,000                                1,000                                  1,000                                -             1,000   1,000 1,000   3,000
91        I                    1,000                                1,000                                 1,000                                               1,000   1,000 1,000   3,000
92                             1,000          350      350   300   1,000                                   1,000                                              1,000   1,000 1,000   3,000
93                             1,000          350      124      -     474                                 1,000                                               1,000      774   700   2,474
94                             1,000                                                                       1,000                                                650      650   700   2,000
95                             1,000                                                                       1,000                                                650      650   700   2,000
96                             1,000                                                                       1,000                                                650      650   700   2,000
97                             1,000                                                                       1 ,000                                               650      650   700   2,000
98                             1,000                                                300      300    400   1,000                                                 650      650   700   2,000
99       350      350   300   1,000                                                 303      300    400   1,003                                                 653      650   700   2,003
2000       350      184     -      534                                                                                                                            350      184    -       534
TOTAL                           25,380                               20,800                                 24,750                               14,700                                85,630
re-prograrm      -       -      -    3,846            -       -    -      6,326                                  3,747                                 3,540                               17,459
Project        2,000   2,000 1,000   5,000          2,000   2,000 1,000   5,000           1,700   1,700  1,600   5,000         2,500   2,500      -    5,000          8,200   8,200 3,600  20,000           a
Program        8,100   7,934 5,500  21,534          5,650   5,424 3,400  14,474           6,653   6,650  7,700  21,003         5,580   5,580      -   11,160         25,983  25,588 16,600 68,171           |



IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
DEBT SERVICE
(CFAF million)
------------------------- IBRD ----------------------            ----------------------- CDC  -------------------------   Total
Commitment 1/ Interest              1                        Commitment 2/  Interest                                            Debt
Fee          7.9%          Principal          Total          Fee            7.5%         Principal          Total        Service
79/80            14             31               -                45            29             22               -               51           96
80/81            23             80               -               103            20             46               _               66          169
81/82            16            143               -               159            13             85               _               98          257
82/83            12            191               -               203             6            118               -              124          327
83/84              6           245               -               251             3            151               -              154          405
84/85              2           295              330              627             -            192               -              192           819
85/86              -           286              330              616             -            183               -              183           810
86/87              -           261              330              591             -            174              147             321          912
87/88              -           234              330              564             -            163              147             310          874
88/89              -           209              330              539             -            154              147             301           840
89/90              -           182              330              512             -            143              147             290           802
90/91              -           156              330              486             -            134              147             281           767
91/92              -           130              330              460             -            124              147             271           731
92/93              -           104              330              434             -            114              147             261           695
93/94              -            78              330              408             -            104              147             251           659
94/95              -            52              330              382             -             94              147             241           623
95/96              -            13              330              343             -             84              147             231           574                             a
96/97              -            -                -                 -             -             74              147             221           221
97/98              -            -                -                 -             -             64              147             211           211
98/99              -            -                -                -              -             54              147             201           201
99/00              -            -                -                 -             -             45              147             192           192
00/01              -            -                -                 -             -             34              147             181           181
01/02              -            -                -                 -             -             25              147             172           172
02/03              -            -                -                 -             -             15              147             162           162
03/04              -            -                -                 -             -              7              141             148           148
1/ 3/4 of 1% on undisbursed balance.
2/ 3/4 of 1% within sixty days of loan signature and 1% on undisbursed balance.



IVORY COAST
PORESTRY PROJECT
Pro ject Cost Summary
;CFAF million)
5 Year                 Taxes                 Foreign Exchange
PYI              PY2               PY3              PY4              PY5          Total Cost           /          Amount          %           Amount
FORESTRY PLANTATIONS
Housing                                             17.2               -              143.8               -                 -             161.0            21           33.8          55             88.5
Equipment - Agricultural Machinery                645.9             629.2               8.8            292.8               8.8          1,585.5            14          222.0          76          1,205.0
- Vehicles                              46.3              18.4             74.7             67-:              38.4            245.6             18          44.2          72             176.9
- Miscellane.us                          1.9              30.0               -               6.0              30.0             67.9             20          13.6          69              46.9
Salaries  - Management                              53.1             61.,              61.5             49.4             49.4             274.9            il           30.2          54            148.1
- Employees                             37.4              37.4             37.4             37.4              37.4            187.0              9          16.8            -               -
Maintenance/Operating
- Houses                                14.0              14.0             15.5              15.5             15.5             74.5             10            7.5         55             41.1
- Vehicles/Generator/Pump               48.3             48.3              48.3             48.3              48.3            241.5             32          77.3          60            144.9
OverheadtAdministration                             47.3             47.3              47.3             47.3              47.3            236.5            12           27.6          30             71.0
Technical Assistance                                75.4             75.4              75.4             75.4              75.4            377.0              8          30.2          80            301.6    .
Field Establishment
- Labor Cost                           192.8            137.7             152.1            155.2             157.6            795.4              9          71.6            -               -
- Operating Costs                   1,193.2             555.8             567.5             572.4            580.2          3,469.1             22         763.2           57           1981.6
Total Costs Plantation                          2,372.8           1,655.0           1,232.3          1,367.5          1,088.3          7,715.9             17        1,338.0          55          4,205.6
MINISTRY OF WATERS AND FORESTS
Vehicles, Equipment                                 11.4                -                -               8.7                -              20.1             30           6.1          60              12.1
Technical Assistance                                60.0             60.0              60.0             60.0              60.0            300.0              -             -         100             300.0
Personnel                                            3.6               3.6              3.6              3.6               3.6             18.0              9            1.6           -               -
Operation                                           10.8             10.8              10.8             10.8              10.8             54.0             32          17.3          60              32.4
Total Costs for MEF                                   85.8             74.4              74.4              83.1             74.4            392.1              6           25.0          88            344.5
Total Base Costs                                    2458.6           1729.4            1306.7           1450.6           1162.7            8108.0            17         1363.0          56           4550.1
Physical Contingencies                            104.6              69.7              55.0             55.4             41.0            325.7             17           54.7          56            182.8
Price contingencies                               167.8             356.0            367.4             538.0            542.6            1973.8            17          331.8          56           1107.7              -
Total Project Costs                                 2731.0           2157.1            1729.1           2044.0            1746.3          10407.5             17        1749.5          56           5840.6             ID



Table III.4
- 38 -
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Bank Fiscal Year                           Cumulative      Undisbursed
and Quarter          Disbursements    Disbursements         Amount
FY80     Second               -                 -             18,000
Third             1,000             1,000           17,000
Fourth            1,000             2,000           16,000
FY81     First              1,000             3,000           15,000
Second            1,000             4,000           14,000
Third             1,000             5,000           13,000
Fourth            1,000             6,000           12,000
FY82     First                800             6,800           11,200
Second              800             7,600           10,400
Third               750             8,350            9,650
Fourth              750             9,100            8,900
FY83     First                750             9,850            8,150
Second              750            10,600            7,400
Third               750            11,350            6,650
Fourth              750            12,100            5,900
FY84     First                750            12,850            5,150
Second              750            13,600            4,400
Third               800            14,400            3,600
Fourth              800            15,200            2,800
FY85     First                700            15,900            2,100
Second              700            16,600            1,400
Third               700            17,300               700
Fourth              700            18,000               -
Fiscal Year:    July 1 - June 30
Closing Date:   December 31, 1985



Table VI.1
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
Stumpage Valuei/ of Timber
(1979 prices - CFAF/m3)
Species
Cedrella-L        Fraké/Samba
1.  Export Quality
A. Reference price:
Logs FOB Abidjan                                         27,700              17,490
B. Deductions:
- Logging cost/3                                                   2,190
- transport /4                                                     3,790
- handling at port                                                 1,630
7,610
C.  Stumpage value                                               20,090               9,880
All species
2. Domestic Quality
Lumber               Logs
A. Reference price:
Imported lumber CIF Abidjan                              39,960                 -
B. Deductions:
- Sawmilling costs in IVC                                 9,530                 -
- Transport mill to port/5                                3,470                  -
13,000                 -
- A - B                                                  26,960                 -
- Value of log at sawmill based on
a 2:1 conversion ratio                                                    _13,480
- Logging cost                                                                2,190
- Transport plantation to mill/6_   590
2,780
C.  Stumpage value                                                                   10,700
/1  Stumpage value - value of the standing timber before felling.
/2  Value of Cedrella based on prices obtained for Bossé (see text).
/3  Based on data obtained in Abidjan during appraisal.
/4  Based on average distance between plantations and Abidjan of 220 km, at a cost
of CFAF 16/m3/km plus CFAF 270/m3 for handling and loading.
/5  Assumes that sawmills serving the plantations would be at 200 km from the port.
/6  Assumes average distance of 20 km from plantation to mill.



40 -
Table VII.1
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
ESTIMATED CASH FLOW FOR TENE, SANGOUE. MOPRI AND IROBO (1978/79 - 2023/24)
(CFAF million)
Plantation        Plantation           Net Annual        Cumulative
Year              Revenues            Costs               Surplus            Annual
t   1/    2/      1/    3/             (Deficit)          Surplus
(Deficit)
1978/79                 116              2141                (2025)            (2025)
1979/80                 118              2645                (2527)            (4552)
1980/81                 128              2056                (1928)            (6480)
1981/82                 139              1629                (1490)            (7970)
1982/83                 150              1927                (1777)            (9747)
1983/84                 161              1633                (1472)           (11219)
1984/85                 175              2401                (2226)           (13445)
1985/86                 189              2439                (2250)           (15695)
1986/87                 204              1924                (1720)           (17415)
1987/88                 221              2388                (2167)           (19582)
1988/89                 247              1930                (1683)           (21265)
1989/90                 192              3029                (2837)           (24102)
1990/91                1124              2685                (1561)           (25663)
1991/92                1241              2349                (1108)           (26771)
1992/93                1358              2405                (1047)           (27818)
1993/94                1629              1620                     9           (27809)
1994/95                1754              2390                  (636)          (28445)
1995/96                1891              2655                  (764)          (29209)
1996/97                2037              1952                    85           (29124)
1997/98                2196              2376                 (180)           (29304)
1998/99               29287              2881                26406             (2898)
1999/00              29239               1160                28079             25181
2000/01              28982                912                28070             53251
2001/02              26457                912                25545             78796
2002/03               40890               912                39978            118774
2003/04               42128                912               41216            159990
2004/05               42553                912               41641            201631
2005/06              42709                912                41797            243428
2006/07              48785                912                47873            291301
2007/08              49764                912                48852            340153
2008/09               51991               912                51079            391232
2009/10              43233                912                42321            433553
2010/11               44021                912               43109            476662
2011/12               43660                912               42748            519410
2012/13               43192               912                42280            561690
2013/14               33287               912                32375            594065
2014/15               33890               912                32978            627043
2015/16               34503               912                33591            660634
2016/17               33009               912                32097            692731
2017/18               29107               912                28195            720926
2018/19              29671                912                28759            749685
2019/20               20832                912               19920            769605
2020/21               14713               912                13801            783406
2021/22               14984               912                14072            797478
2022/23               15260               912                14348            811826
2023/24               10581                912                9669            821495
1/ Costs and revenues inflated by appraisal report factors during project period, thereafter at 6% per annum
during the investment period (up till 1997/98) and in constant 1997/98 terms from 1998/99 on
2/ At mean values assumed for the financial and economic rates of return (inflated): 50% revenues from salvage
logging and thinnings and the mean of the three final cut revenue assumptions (Table VII.3)
3/ Inclusive of taxes and physical contingencies



IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
ESTIMATED GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT (1978/79 - 1997/98) 1/
(CFAF million)
------------ Investments ----------           ------- Project Financing ------
Ministrv
Ministry                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Net Investments
SODEFOR 2/  of Waters                                                                     Net_Investments
Year       Plantations  and Forests        Total          Loans      Debt Service        Net         Annual       Cumulative
1978/79          2025           -             2025            -             -               -           2025              -
- 79/80          2527         96              2623          (759)           96            (663)         1960           3985
80/81          1928         93              2021         (1519)          169           (1350)          671           4656
81/82         1490          98              1588         (1121)          257            (864)          724           5380
82/83         1777         117              1894         (1057)          327            (730)         1164           6544
83/84          1472         112             1584         (1157)          405            (752)          832           7376
84/85         2226           -             2226           (987)          819            (168)         2058           9434
85/86         2250          -               2250            -            810             810          3060          12494
86/87         1720          -               1720            -            912             912          2632          15126
87/88          2167          -              2167            -            874             874          3041          18167
88/89         1683          -               1683            -            840             840          2523          20690
89/90         2837          -               2837            -            802             802          3639          24329
90/91          1561          -              1561            -            767             767          2328          26657
91/92          1108          -              1108            -            731             731          1839          28496
92/93         1047          -               1047            -            695             695          1742          30238
93/94            - 4/        -                -             -            659             659           659          30897                                        t
94/95           636         -                636            -            623             623          1259          32156
95/96           764         -                764            -            574             574          1338          33494
96/97            - 4/        -                -             -            221             221           221          33715
97/98           180          -               180            -            211             211           391          34106
98/99            - 5/       -                 _             -            201             201           201          34307
99/00            -          -                 -             -            192             192           192          34499
2000/01            -           -                -             -            181             181            181          34680
01/02            -           -                -             -            172             172            172          34852
02/03            -           -                -             -            162             162            162          35014
03/04            -           -                -             -            148             148            148         35162
I/Government Investment for development of 68,000 ha forestry plantations and technical assistance to Ministry of Waters and Forests.
2/From Table VII.1.
3/Technical Assistance over 5 years5  project period.
4/Net surplus attributed to the project and program.
5/From 1998/99 onwards the project and program generate a surplus.
t-



- 42 -
Table VII.3
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECr
SUMMARY OF RBVENUE STREA»S 1/
(CFAF million)
Minimum 4/7/
Expected
Maximum      Revenues
Calendar        Progr         Mean         Expeeted    (Final Cut         salvage 5/                  Final Cut 5/  Final Cut
Year           Year       Revenues 2/   Revenues   Assumption B)        Ilgging      Thinnings 5/ Assumption A   Assumption C 8/
1978/79            1           116           232              0             232              0             0               0
79/80            2           118           237              0             237              0             0               0
80/81           3            128           256              0             256              0             0               0
81/82           4            139           277              0             277              0             0               0
82/83            5           150           300              0             300              0             0               0
83/84            6           161           323              0             323              0             0               0
84/85           7            175           349              0             349              0             0               O
85/86           8            189           379              0             379              0             0               0
86/87           9            204           407              0             407              0             0               0
87/88           10           221           441              0             441              0             0               0
88/89          il            247           495              0             495              0             0               0
89/90          12            192           385              0             385              0             0               0
90/91           13          1124          2248              0             415           1833             0               0
91/92           14          1241          2482              °             448           2033             0               0
92/93          15           1358          2715              0             398           2317             0               0
93/94           16          1629          3257              0             348           2909             0               0
94/95           17          1754          3509              0             376           3133             0               a
95/96          18           1891          3781              0             404           3378             0               0
96/97          19           2037          4075              0             436           3639             0               0
97/98          20           2196          4392              0             471           3920             0               0
98/99           21         29287         34859          17560             479           3986         30393           33209
99/00          22          29239         34465          17386             128           4052         30284           33777
2000/01           23         28982         33663          16736               0           4329         29334           34385
01/02          24          26457         28375          14168               0           3381         24994           35138
02/03           25         40890         51529          33731               0           3436         48093           35695
03/04           26         42128         53458          34924               0           3490         49968           36260
04/05           27         42553         53897          35632               0           2605         51292           36827
05/06           28         42709         54034          35478               0           2434         51600           37401
06/07          29          48785         63788          43353               °           2471         61316           37980
07/08          30          49764         65451          44021               0           2511         62940           38565
08/09          31          51991         68453          45539               0           2548         65904           40708
09/10          32          43233         58454          40038               0           2588         55866           29913
10/11          33          44021         59738          40645               0           2628         57110           30367
11/12          34          43660         58722          41259               0            345         58377           30827
12/13          35          43192         60823          42803               0              0         60822           25953
13/14          36          33287         46007          32670               °              °         46007           21184
14/15          37          33890         47017          33155               0              0         47017           21498
15/16          38          34503         48048          33646               0              0         48047           21818
16/17          39          33009         45514          31374               0              0         45514           22140
17/18          40          29107         38885          25976               0              0         38885           22463
18/19          41          29671         39795          26392               0              0         39795           22828
19/20          42          20832         33223          23022               0              0         33223            6252
20/21          43          14713         25179          18959               0              0         25179               0
21/22          44          14984         25722          19230               0              0         25722               0
22/23          45          15260         26275          19507               0              0         26275               0
23/24          46          10581         18271          13472               0              °         18271               0
1/ For 68,000 ha program, in current terms during investnent period (1978/79 to 1997/98) and thereafter in constant 1997/98 terms.
Inflation factors during 5 year project period as at para 3.21 and subsequently at 6% per annum.
2/ Mean Revenues = Mean of 3 Final Cuts plus 50% of potential benefits from salvage logging and thinnings.
3/ Final Cut A plus 100% salvage logging and thinnings.
4/ Final Cut B, no revenues from salvage logging and thinnings.
5/ Total potential benefits.
6/ Final Cut A = 607% Export, 40% Domestic, price increase 2% and 1% per year respectively.
7/ Final Cut B = lOOtDomestic market, price increase 1% per year.
8/ Final Oit C = lOO%Domestic market, 20 year rotation all species, price increase 1%/ per year.                                                                   c



. . . . . . .-. . . .-. .-. .Iw
1>>1->~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . ..          
e,,,            E-                                                       __ _ _ _ _ _                                                           '  _   __   __ >0  
"  l  |    ~             *       **        >      ''' g" _ee.-0>0 _c 4e,o-8                                               o-CoO-            e>    t     ,
0     e                                                                                                                                            -    O W ô  1    @ Il  W
9,    -                                                                                                                                           ° n .     .     .     .,.    .    .     .     .     .     .  4.. . . . . . . . .
--  0                                                                                                                                        I  0e~~l--  g
. .                                                                                                                    .    .   .   .
F0t00        e                      __________________    _____    ______________________
O  e  est                                                              c,e0eO t    '                   oOeee   's
-e       ' e. - 
e     e  e      O 
'ee             O              co*-  O O......... O.-........coO     cct-0O   'e-ce,
e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ >                             =     _      m 0. '' ' 
rW.)».~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tSr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               Ig 
c coo=o_=_                                                                         I    .'e ce
ccOe'oo'e'c  aco c-                 c e'e'o       e't-     ecc-0=                                                      q       ;
O-e e'e'oO-o e'1
W'O W A C-O    _ 14 s   '                                   lk
ae'e'e,->e' ecca Owwce,JOw_ _ M _
oee' oacoe e'nce>-e--IOW ca
UIUA *Iqul                         e  ce.    Mec E-aoc-c    c-e.<wm 



ORGANIGRAM
Societe Pour Le Developpement Des Plantations Forestieres
DIRECTION GENERALE
DIRECTION ADMINISTRATIVE ET     DIRECTION DE LA DE LIMITATION     DIRECTION DES REBOISEMENTS       DIETON DE LA GESTION DES          DRCION DES INVENTAIRES             DIRECTION DES ETUDES
FINANCIERE                                                                                   PLNATIONS ANCIENNES               EDE L'AMENAGEMENT                 ET DES PROGRAMMES
-I                         ------         - -               CTFT 
1                           1
I                                                 L      …bllWl.l.rs|ecrrIA^I          
DIRECTEUR-ADJOINT'
DEFORESTAGE
SOUS-DIRECTEUR                    SOUS-DIRECTEUR                  SOUS-DIRECTEUR                    1 COMPTABLE'
3 CHANTIERS          n                 H3 CHANTIERS                     CATES             lCHANTIER N° 1
No N10No°9N°8                         No N7No°6N°S                      N   N4N°3N°2           - -- -  --                     AVEC
SANGOUE                                    1 SYLVICULTEUR'
MOPRI                                      1 INGENIEUR GENIE-CIVIL'
IROBO                                                TN
TENE
'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
WoCîd Ba.k - 20446



Figure  1
- 45 -
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
A Comparison Between Estimated Returns from Timber and Rubber1U
1500
\            E~~~RR Rubber
1250                                 96
1250         <       9 .6%                    ~~~~~~~~N PV FRubber =CFAF 43 ,000/ha
--  1000 
DO750
u- 500                     *NPV Forestry=
LIJ                  ~~~~~+ CFAF 97,000/habe
- - - - - - - - .-_ . _ . _ . _ .      *--..                          Costs Forestry
250                                          _                                             ~        F........ orestry,
ERR Forestry = 11.5%
O                                                                    1.  1  1 I  I  I       I
6.0        7.0        8.0        9.0       10.0       11.0        12.0       13.0       14.0        15.0
DISCOUNT RATE
LEGEND
OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPITAL (10%)
COSTS RUBBER
BENEFITS RUBBER
COSTS FORESTRY
*-------- =BENEFITS FORESTRY
Explanatory Note:
Intersection points for cost and benefit plots mark the economic rate
of return (ERR). The net present value (NPV) is the vertical distance
between the cost and benefit plots at the opportunity cost of capital
line. Timber has a higher economic rate of return and net present
value than rubber.
1] The superiority of timber over rubber demonstrated here should not be
taken as having general significance. Ecological conditions for growing
rubber on the forestry reserves to be planted under the project are
marginal and rubber yeilds have been reduced to reflect this (para. 8.06).
World Bank - 20437



46  -i9îî;rc  2
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
Effects of Variations in Benefits on Rates of Return
A. PROJECT
20 000 ha. 'cea EPO - 11.5°%, NPV = CFAF 97,000/ha
700   .
600 _          -'
6nE a 500  ~   \  >         Meal] 8ene- its E R 3   15%
4    000    %
Ur40                                            '            54rmm          t ERR   I3 4Xi,
iit,              c-.,__                                                                       ",t,,nft
100   _                                         .          M         Berin  Bnf
9.0          10.0          1 10           12~0          1 3C           14 0          15.0          1lôO
DICUTRA1 E
IS. PR -GRAM
6t8,W  ha. M.- ERR   13 0°  NPV =CFAF 128.00hi
70D)
600   _
LU    00   *
100   _|,_                                                        M,   eeh                   -  
Min-imumn nits ER1  1   0%                                      . -       .                 _    _
O                                                           I    .                      I
9 0          10.0           11.0           12.0          13.0          140           15.0          160
DISCOUNT RATE
L0GE 0D                                                                                                                                NPV                       NPV h
a-nefftsi s000mphons                 ERR    (CFA   000         ERR   ICFAF 000
=   .lO n.J  OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPI TAL                                (sep-ra 8.04 and 8 7) r                        per hale.pr a
1  NCR EMENTAL COSTS 
=MINJIMUM BENEFITFS
MEAN EENEFITS                                                              MainLm6-nf-t 60% of final Cu         3-4       248             15.1       238
..........   MAXIMUK0 MBENEFITS                                                     iS f eport qalit CR-   171   nf
t,l-iel --- f- r s-va.e
ogUing 3nd tinnr
300j        20A o fi-a -l           11 5       97 1b              0       128
Explanatory Note                                              is Of 9 tport ~~~~~~~~~~~~~q.al ty ph,, 50%
a5~~~~~~ itvre  ihcagsinhe discou-t rate. Th. eZnoi  -aeslae ogn   d V Ililu
C' e 7rnisrepeSntd  hee 0boeft,,n int"ret witb a COSt                   8nüt-fîC All otPtrt 01               9.7      -20 1e1 r0                  43
line Ntt P--n talue  -a be read off f-,i the,           -jotmt  ntdmsicqaivOl  ldr5
nca itel -n eh  -' vri'ff isac  ewn b-nfils Z,,d COStS                            rz.~ti vanl-sfim salva9 loggin9
a5he9 -u  t,h OCC                                                                    ad
Warid 8ak  20439



- 47  -                                                               Figure  3
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
Sensitivity to Cost Increases and Shortfalls in Benefits
A. PROJECT
20,000 ha; ERR = 11.5%; NPV   CFAF 97,000/ha
70 -
<n   60  _
1--
c,,
o
Z 50 _
C    40   -  Crossover Value for
w             Costs = +29%
o
w    30
t~~~~~~'
w    20    0          15          20          25         30          35         45Crossover
u                                                  1~ ~                     Value for
B. PROG RAM
68,000 ha; ERR = 13.0%; NPV =CFAF 128,000/ha
Crossover Value for Costs
60_\
a.                                                 Lous of Cost and Benefit Combinations
50                                                          where NPV is Zero
wu    40
-UAlCs  n   enftCmiain  Crossover ValuefoCst
O    30
The bo  conain all                                       Costaton ocstanbefiswhnterandgee:fcotsu Comiaon
proect th  htchd aea epesets os an  beefi cmbiatinswhere teNPV is Zer
o    20
W                                                                                                   Crossover Value
Ail Cost and Benef it Combinations                                            for Benefits
10                       Yield Positive NPVs                                                       --41%
O          5          10          15          20         25          30          35         40          45
PERCENTAGE SHORTFALL IN BENEFITS
Explanatory Note:
The box contains ail combinations of costs and benefits within the range: costs up to
plus 20% from appraisal estimates and benefits down to 27% below appraisal
estimates. For the program ali such cost: benefit combinations are covered. For the
project, the hatched area represents cost and benef it combinations where the N PV would
be negative (or the ERR less than 1 0%). The program is clearly more resiliest than the
project to shortfalls in benefits and/or cost increases.
World Bank - 20438



- 48 -
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
List of Related Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A. Preparation Report on the Ivory Coast Forestry Development Project.
Report No. 27/78-IVC 5 (3 volumes) June 1978
by FAO/World Bank Co-operative Program
B. Forestry, Forest Resources, and Forest Industries
Education & Training in the Ivory Coast.
- Consultant's Report
C. Project File
Supplement 1    Background to Forestry Sector
Data on production, exports & taxes
Supplement 2    The Project Area
Extracts from descriptive chapter in the
preparation report
Supplement 3    The Project
Detailed costs and planting programs by estate
Supplement 4    Organization & Management
Supplement 5    Production
Detailed estimates by species & estate
Supplement 6    Markets & Prices
Prices per m3, value of exports, stumpage values
of plantation timber
Supplement 7    Financial Analysis
Investments, cash-flow and details
of revenue streams
Supplement 8    Benefits and Justification
Summary of Economic Data
Supplement 9    Agreements & Recommendation
Draft TOR for technical assistance posts.
Supplement 10   Forestry Education
Consultant's report on Forestry Education with
particular reference to the training of technicians
at Bouake.



- 49 -
ANNEXE I
IVORY COAST
FORESTRY PROJECT
A.  Ministry of Waters and Forests (MEF)IJ - AbidJan
The following internationally recruited staff is necessary for
the Department of Studies and Programmming
1. Forestry Economist
The Forestry Economist, who should hold a university degree
in Forestry and Economics, must have some experience in general economics,
especially in sectoral and country work relating to forestry. His main
responsibilities will be:
a)  to evaluate the project activities in the SODEFOR
estates, especially the marketing possibilities for
salvage logging and thinnings;
b) to provide MEF with detailed recommendations on the
preparation of future projects through updating sector
studies and reports on the forest economy of the country;
c) to assist in training and development of his staff.
2 he Forestry Economist vill report directly to the Directeur
de Cabinet - of MEF.
2. Financial Controller
The Financial Controller should be a fully qualified accountant
with at least five years experience in financial management of rural projects,
preferably plantations. His main responsibilities will be:
a)  to provide MEF with detailed recommendations on the
preparation of future projects;
b) to ensure that the analytical accounting system to be
introduced by SODEFOR provides adequate and up to date
information on the cost of its reforestation program;
c)  to assist MEF and SODEFOR in preparing budgets for
their respective projects and to establish a system
of budget control;
1/ Ministère des Eaux et Forêts
2/ Principal Private Secretary



- 50 -
d) to ensure that SODEFOR complies with the terms and
procedures concerning procurement and disbursement;
e)  to assist SODEFOR in establishing quarterly financial
reports;
f) to assistin the training and development of his staff.
The Financial Controller wili report directly to the Directeur
de Cabinet of MEF.
3. Silviculturist
The Silviculturist must hold a degree in forestry and have
atleast ten years experience in the development of tropical high forests,
plus some experience in the development of the savannah regions. His main
responsibilities will be:
a) to provide MEF with detailed recommendations on the
preparation of future projects;
b)  to study, formulate, and implement a program for the
exploitation of 2.5 million ha of high forest reserves on a
sustained yield basis;
c)  to implement a program aimed at improving the quality
and output of these high forests;
d.) later, to study the problems of the wooded savannah
regions in order to evaluate development possibilities;
e) to contribute in developing on-the-job training of
Ivorian forestry staff.
The overall responsibilities of the Silviculturist vill have
to be coordinated with those of similar research programs carried out by
CTFT. He will report directly to the Directeur de Cabinet of MEF.
B. SODEFOR
SODEFOR will have four internationally recruited experts: tvo
for HQ and two for the pilot plantation at Tene.
a) HQ - Abidjan
1. Deputy to the Director of Reforestation
The candidate must have a broad practical experience in the
operations of large industrial plantations established on mechanically cleared
closed forests. He should be a university graduate, preferably with
specialization in forestry.



- 51 -
He vill assist the Director of Reforestation in all his duties and
especially in:
a)  the evaluation, organization, introduction, coordination
and follow-up of the opening of new estates (setting up
infrastructure, equipment and staff);
b)  the formulation of working plans for the estates and their
permanent control;
c)  the study of the progress reports of the estates and
in the preparation of summary documents and procedures;
d)  the control and progressing of buying operations for
spare parts and other equipment, their allocation and use;
e)  on-the-job training of staff.
2. Accountant in charge of analytical accounting
This position will be occupied by a qualified accountant vith
at least five years experience in analytical accounting, preferably acquired
in plantation projects. His main responsibilities will be:
a)  to organize and implement an analytical accounting
system for the reforestation service of SODEFOR; to
provide comparable data for the four project estates,.
as vell as for the estates outside the project,in order
to provide theDirector of Reforestation with all the
information required to ensure effective management
of the operations;
b)  to prepare annual budgets for each estate to be in-
corporated in the overall budget of SODEFOR;
c)  to assist the Director of Reforestation in establishing
quarterly reports on the progress of all the estates
including those outside the project;
d)  to provide the Financial Controller of the Department
of Studies and Programming with all data that he may
reasonably request;
e)  to assist in improving the training of his bookkeepers
and assistant staff.
b) Tene
3. Silviculturist
The Silviculturist must have a degree in forestry and at least
ten years experience in establishing plantations and in research in this field.
His main responsibilities vill be:



- 52 -
a) to ensure overall management of the pilot-plantation
at Tene;
b) to develop and introduce improved plantation techniques
at Tene and later extend these to SODEFOR's other
estates;
c)  to make regular advisory visits to other SODEFOR
estates;
d) to coordinate field trial research between CTFT and
SODEFOR in order to evaluate the effect of various
cultural practices on the growth of some timber
species (fertilizer, cover crop and herbicide trials),
studies on pest and disease problems and the introduction
of appropriate prophylactic or control measures;
e)  to provide on-the-job training for his staff.
The Silviculturist will report directly to the Director of
Reforestation or his deputy.
4. Specialist in Civil or Agricultural Engineering
He must have at least 5-10 years experience in the operation of
heavy agricultural equipment in agricultural projects. High academic
qualifications are not required. His main responsibilities will be:
a) to supervise all mechanical operations on the Tene
plantation;
b) to refine mechanical maintenance techniques on the
plantations including an eventual introduction and
adaptation of new equipment at Tene and later on all
SODEFOR estates;
c) to visit all SODEFOR estates regularly and to report
to the Director of Reforestation on the condition and
maintenance of equipment, the performance of the
operators and the overall quality of the work carried out.
d) to provide further training for operators and mechanics
who will be given refresher courses at Tene.
He will report directly to the Director of Reforestation or his
deputy.



IBRD I 3998
l         t~~~~~~VORY COAST     a        M A L t                 rerr
FORESRY PROJ E uT                                     .... Pa 1#p4  eStt 'nfc»  '   2E
;    A    0    :   X        <  °usét ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~upfg votrA      4Zsei
I    l\_t72f- 0 -=X<S  StS~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~kÉS    =-ÉDO'-UGOU\
\        (   <   (          ;'    'Tolr,-15FBOQOE7Nn
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H                                          55AE* R N     A "
A~~~~~~~,h F     A     < @             e  i
'i  ,)GL                                                                                  m  03DdEnbr,              fFfC OCEAf   @   SST<ED l4A{JTAN
Q  r  tVŒD                                                          . . . EAX»8Dr 9ESTS1EDES.c  T5



