                              Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                     Report No:ICR000075




    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      ( EXIM-04020 IBRD-42040 )




                                ON A

                     LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF


                           US$ 76 MILLION

                                 TO

               ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY

                                 FOR

            FOREST PRODUCTS TRANSPORT PROJECT

                         FEBRUARY 26, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         ( Exchange Rate Effective 09/15/2006 )
                               Currency Unit = UYU
                                  UYU 1.00 = US$ 0.04187
                                   US$ 1.00 = UYU 23.885


                                       Fiscal Year
                                January 1 - December 31




                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFE   State Railway Administration
ANP   National Port Administration
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
DNV   National Directorate for Roads
ERR   Economic Rate of Return
FPTP Forest Product Transport Project
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
GoU   Government of Uruguay
HDM   Highway Design Model
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IRI   International Roughness Index
ISR   Implementation Status Report
M&E   Monitoring & Evaluation
MTOP Ministry of Transport and Public Works
NCB   National Competitive Bidding
NPV   Net Present Value
OPP   Office for Planning and Budget
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PDO   Project Development Objectives
STP  Second Transport Project
TIMRA Transport Infrastructure Maintenance and Rural Access Project
TOR   Terms of Reference

     Vice President: Pamela Cox

   Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg

    Sector Manager: Jose Luis Irigoyen

Project Team Leader: Jorge M. Rebelo

   ICR Team Leader Jorge M. Rebelo

   ICR Main Author Vickram Cuttaree

                                               Uruguay
                                 UY FOREST PROD.TSP




                                            CONTENTS




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 31
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 55
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 57
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 58
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 59
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 77
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 78

A. Basic Information

                                                                      UY FOREST
Country:                Uruguay                Project Name:
                                                                      PROD.TSP
                                                                      EXIM-04020,IBRD-
Project ID:             P039203                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      42040
ICR Date:               03/29/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      URUGUAY
Original Total
                        USD 76.0M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 70.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE Y OBRAS PUBLICAS
Administración de Ferrocarriles del Estado (AFE)
Administracion Nacional de Puertos (ANP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/29/1996     Effectiveness:       12/29/1997         12/29/1997
Appraisal:             04/21/1997     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/25/1997     Mid-term Review:                        08/19/2002
                                      Closing:             12/31/2001         04/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing           Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 8                  1
Ports, waterways and shipping                                    10                  1
Railways                                                         37                  3
Roads and highways                                               45                 95


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness                          Primary          Primary
Regulation and competition policy                              Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:         Axel van Trotsenburg               Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:           Jose Luis Irigoyen                 Asif Faiz
Project Team Leader:      Jorge M. Rebelo                    Jorge M. Rebelo
ICR Team Leader:          Jorge M. Rebelo
ICR Primary Author:       Vickram Cuttaree



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The original PDO was to "facilitate the cost-efficient transport of forestry products from
forest to port-of-exit through the rehabilitation of transport infrastructure";

  A subsidiary objective was to increase productivity in the road and port sectors and
improve efficiency while reducing subsidies to the national rail carrier (AFE) through
private sector participation in the operations of forest products transport.


                                               ii

  The key indicators are detailed in section 7.3 on Monitoring & Evaluation Design,
Implementation and Utilization

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There was no revised PDO.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Share of Forest Products Transported by rail as a % of total exports by the Port of
                Montevideo
Value
quantitative or 18                        30                 11               11
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/1997                  12/31/2002         12/31/2003       12/31/2004
Comments        Lower than originally expected value but same as revised value. Since the reform
(incl. %        in 2002, share has increased from 8% to 11% but the opening of M'Bopicua
achievement)    affected the results.
Indicator 2 :   Forest Product Transported by AFE in 1000's tons/year for export
Value
quantitative or 100                        1498              75               105
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                  12/31/2002         12/31/2003       12/31/2005
Comments        Values were formally revised to take into consideration the delayed railways
(incl. %        reform and the impact of the economic crisis on exports of forest products. Final
achievement)    project value is 40% over target
Indicator 3 :   Forest Products Traffic by the Port of Fray Bentos in 1000's tons/year
Value
quantitative or 226                        2469              429              380.3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                  12/31/2002         12/31/2003       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Value achieved in 2005 was lower due to the impact of M'Bopicua private port.

achievement)    Cumulative value of Fray Bentos and port of M'Bopicua is 575,057.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Percentage of Road Program Completed
Value
(quantitative   0                         100                                 99%



                                               iii

or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/1997                  12/31/2005                        08/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Railway Institutional Reform Completed
                                          SEPARATION

Value                                     OF                                AFE
(quantitative  NO REFORM                  INFRASTRUCTU                      VERTICALLY
or Qualitative)                           RE AND
                                          OPERATIONS                        INTEGRATED

                                          COMPLETED
Date achieved 06/01/2005                  12/31/2005                        03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Following the decision of the new administration to revert the previous reform

achievement)   (separation of infrastructure and operations), AFE is now an integrated railway.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     10/20/1997          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     10/23/1997          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     03/31/1998          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      3.99
  4     06/29/1998          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      8.83
  5     12/18/1998          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     11.86
  6     04/02/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     15.73
  7     04/21/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     15.73
  8     09/14/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     17.97
  9     11/05/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     19.40
  10    12/29/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     20.66
  11    03/01/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     20.68
  12    05/24/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     24.66
  13    11/29/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     31.83
  14    06/12/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     35.36
  15    09/26/2001          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     35.36
  16    12/13/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     38.35
  17    04/24/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     40.60
  18    10/30/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     41.15
  19    11/23/2002          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     41.74
  20    02/21/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     42.66
  21    07/29/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     43.64
  22    08/28/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     45.28
  23    12/09/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     51.75
  24    03/23/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     54.61



                                               iv

  25  11/30/2004        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    69.74
  26  04/07/2005        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    75.02
  27  11/17/2005        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    81.99
  28  06/13/2006        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    96.76



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)


The economic situation of Uruguay at the time of appraisal was very favorable for
supporting transportation investments, which would facilitate export of forest products.
Over 1990-98, Uruguay's economy grew by an annual average of 4.4%, favored by trade,
financial and state reforms. Moderate fiscal deficits (between 1% and 1.5% of GDP
during 1995-98) and a gradualist monetary policy helped reduce the rate of inflation from
over 40% in 1994 to single digits in the 1990s. Even before joining MERCOSUR
(Mercado Comun del Sur) in 1994, Uruguay had unilaterally liberalized much of its trade
regime, and under MERCOSUR the country freed inter-regional trade and adopted the
common external tariff.

The long-term forestry development policy put in place by the Government of Uruguay
(GoU) in the late 1980s favored private sector investment in the sector. The legal
framework for the forestry development in Uruguay was enacted in 1987 and was
followed by several regulations. The policy was designed to take advantage of the lands
that were suitable for this type of production through tax exemptions/reductions, cost
refunds, credits for plantations, duty exemptions for the import of machinery, and fiscal
advantages for industrialization. As a result, there was a sustained long-term growth of
planted surfaces, as well as an increase in the extraction, transportation, industrialization,
and export of forestry raw material. Consequently, the quality of forest product transport
corridors (roads and rail) and port handling was essential to enhance the export of forest
products from plantation to port and their final destination.

A World Bank review of the transport sector in 1996 indicated that the road network had
been deteriorating fast mainly due to insufficient allocation of funds for maintenance.
The railway network, which in principle could be capable of serving part of that potential
demand on selected forest product corridors, did not have the necessary capacity due to
the inadequacy of its rolling stock, obsolete and deteriorated track infrastructure, weak
operations management, and poor commercial orientation.

The project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the
Board in 1997, as it involved a key sector for enhancing and diversifying                  the
competitiveness of the economy and where ongoing Bank involvement supported policy
changes designed to increase private sector participation and decrease public
expenditures. The project was designed to meet the CAS objectives by: (i) supporting the
agricultural diversification objective by financing cost-efficient options for transporting
the forest products; (ii) rehabilitating the basic road, rail and port infrastructure required
to move the products; (iii) promoting the financial viability of public transport enterprises
and their reform by introducing improvements in the Administracion de Ferrocarriles del
Estado (AFE); and (iv) reducing Government subsidies through better tariff policies and



                                              1

improved financial management.

At the time of project preparation, the main transport sector issues identified in the
Transport Sector Note on Uruguay (August 1996) included:
·    potential freight demand and capacity constraints due to a surge in forest products ;
·    insufficient road infrastructure investment and maintenance;
·      The Direccion Nacional de Vialidad (DNV) to contract out more routine
maintenance rather than using force account and embark on a staff rationalization
program;
·      railway    restructuring of the railway along commercial lines, strengthening
marketing and sales functions through private sector involvement, capitalizing on the
boom in forestry products and the linkage to Mercosur, with needed identification of
routes with comparative advantage over trucking;
·     port infrastructure investment and maintenance issues, including consolidating the
gains of the past, enlisting the private sector to build and operate port facilities, maintain
the policy of eliminating restrictive labor policies, and to seek private sector participation
in dredging activities;
·     institutional issues include better interinstitutional relations among transportation
sector entities the Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Publicas (MTOP), the Oficina de
Planeamiento y Presupuesto (OPP) with clearer definition of responsibilities and
accountabilities,e.g., currently there is no agency in charge of overseeing the activities of
ports and railways;
·     cost recovery and management issues include setting tariffs to recover costs,
studying road user charges, and improving the financial management of the systems;
·     the need to strengthen MTOP transportation planning, and improving the data base
as well as the economic and financial evaluation of new investments; and
·     optmizing Mercosur integration relative to the railways and road transport. In the
context of the proposed project, the Government, under Ln. 3021-UR, undertook a
transport user charge evaluation study as well as a study to evaluate the feasibility of
privatizing AFE. These were key pillars toward the Government's intent, expressed in
legislation in 1993, to exploit the economic potential of forestry products in the country.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The original PDO was to "facilitate the cost-efficient transport of forestry products from
forest to port-of-exit through the rehabilitation of transport infrastructure";

A subsidiary objective was to increase productivity in the road and port sectors and
improve efficiency while reducing subsidies to the national rail carrier (AFE) through
private sector participation in the operations of forest products transport.

The key indicators are detailed in section 2.3 on Monitoring & Evaluation Design,
Implementation and Utilization.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and



                                               2

reasons/justification

There was no revised PDO.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The beneficiaries include forest product producers and related users of road and rail
infrastructure, as well as the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP), the
National Directorate for Roads (DNV) and the State Railway Administration (AFE). The
road maintenance component would benefit the "departamentos" (intendencias)
concerned, and especially their populations.

There were no revised beneficiaries.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

(a) Infrastructure and Equipment component (at a cost of US$ 144 million or about 95
per cent of the original project cost) to: (i) rehabilitate the road network infrastructure
serving the main plantation areas; (ii) rehabilitate AFE's track infrastructure and
equipment to be used by the forest products traffic; (iii) build the pier extension required
at the port of Fray Bentos to handle the forecast forest products traffic; (iv)
build/rehabilitate the transfer stations between the several modes at the plantation,
railhead and ports; and (v) continue for one year the routine maintenance program
initiated in the First Transport Project (Ln. 3021-UR), for a maximum of 10,000 km of
selected gravel roads in participating departments (Intendencias) and annual periodic
maintenance programs on about 2,000 kms of these gravel roads.

This component was designed to improve the road, rail and port infrastructure and
equipment which serve the forest products traffic. It was divided in the Loan Agreement
into the following programs:
         (a1) the Road Subcomponent , (about 52 percent of the base project cost)
consisted of: 391 kms of rehabilitated roads in the national network, 600 kms of
rehabilitated roads in the departmental networks, 203 kms of forest roads in the
departmental network;
         (a2) the Rail Subcomponent, (about 34 percent of the base project cost), included
300 kms of rehabilitated rail track infrastructure (in the Montevideo-Rivera and Florida-
Blanquillo lines) and some rehabilitation/acquisition of railway maintenance equipment;
and
         (a3) the Ports Subcomponent, (about 9 percent of the base project cost),
consisted of the extension of the Fray Bentos quay and port handling equipment in the
Port of Montevideo.

(b) Institutional and Policy Development component (US$8 million or about 5 percent of



                                             3

the original project cost) to help: (a) reorganizing AFE and increase private sector
participation in its operations and investments, especially in the movement of forest
products; (b) introducing road-user charges which reflect the actual costs incurred by
each mode; (c) undertaking a comprehensive study of the Uruguayan trucking industry;
(d) preparing the economic, engineering and environmental analysis of civil works under
the project and works that might be required for future expansions of the transport
network; and (e) supervising works under the project.

1.6 Revised Components


The project's components were revised several times, to take into consideration changes
in the transport demand of forest products, the decision to delay the railway rehabilitation
in favor of more road rehabilitation and Go U's request to change the allocation and
include a sub-component. These revisions did not modify the Project's Development
Objectives and did not require Board approval.

The number and definition of components remained the same, except for the inclusion of
a new sub-component focusing on CREMAS (Road Maintenance Contracts). These
performance-based maintenance contracts were first tested under the Second Transport
Project, and the Borrower requested to expand this cost effective solution to a significant
portion of the network after the fiscal space crisis hit the country. As a result, about 240
km of primary roads maintenance of uncompleted CREMA contracts were added from
the Second Transport Project.

At the same time, the scope and funding allocation of the railway component and
consultancy services were reduced. The reduction of the allocation of the railway
component is a result of GoU purchase of rails from Russia using a debt owed by
Uruguay and the decision of the Ministry of Transport to focus its limited resources on
key road corridors, again after the strong budgetary constraints that followed the fiscal
crisis. The allocation to the consultant services category was reduced because most of the
studies included in the loan were completed with grants and GoU's own resources.

At the end of the FPTP implementation 94.6% of the loan funds, excluding the amount
canceled, were allocated to road works, about 2.9% to rail works and goods, 1.6% to port
works and the remaining 0.9% to consulting services. The latest allocation (loan)
compared to the original one (PAD) is as follows:




                                              4

     Component                                          Original                Latest
                                                    Allocation (US$          Allocation
                                                         million)          (US$ million)
     National Forest Roads                                25.2                  44.64
     Departmental Forest Roads                            2.77                   0.23
     Rehabilitation CREMA Contracts                        0.00                  4.52
     Departmental Maintenance                             6.00                  17.61
     AFE Subprojects                                      19.50                  1.78
     ANP Subproject                                       5.27                   0.50
     Goods under AFE                                      4.04                   1.64
     Consultant Services                                  3.55                   0.08
     Unallocated                                          9.65                   0.00
     Cancelled                                            0.00                   5.00
     Total                                                76.00                 76.00

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The project was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on June 25, 1997 and became
effective on December 29, 1997 - about six months after approval. It closed on April 30,
2006 after five extensions, for a total implementation period of 8 years and 10 months.

The extensions were mainly to accommodate the fiscal space constraints and the Bank's
cautious approach of only providing a one-year extension at a time. The reallocations
reflect the inclusion of JBIC financing to decrease the counterpart fund portion of GoU
and also the emphasis on the road component agreed after the fiscal space crisis.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The success of the Government long-term forestry policy created an urgent need for
investment in transport infrastructure in ports and forest product corridors. As explained
in section 1.1, the policy to support forestry development was successful but resulted in
the need for cost-effective transportation from the plantation to the port. In addition, a
major study of Uruguay's forestry production and transport infrastructure conducted by
independent consultants (CSI) as part of the preparation for the Forest Products Transport
Loan confirmed the need for rail, road and port infrastructure improvements to eliminate
potential bottlenecks. The study estimated a growing demand for forest products that was
to reach 7.9 million cubic meters in 2003, and 11.8 cubic meters in 2016.Finally, a
Transport Sector Note on Uruguay was issued in August 1996 ("A reform Agenda for
the Uruguayan Transport Sector", LA1 Economic Notes No. 13). This report identified
short and medium term infrastructure capacity bottlenecks resulting from the expected


                                                5

growth in the transportation of forest products and proposed an action plan to eliminate
them.

Investment in ports and forest product corridors (roads and rail) was needed at the time
of appraisal to increase the competitiveness of forest products and to ensure efficiency in
transport infrastructure investment. The abovementioned Transport Sector Note
identified several issues facing the transport sector, including (i) the need to restructure
the railway along commercial lines, (ii) port infrastructure investment and maintenance
issues, and (iii) cost-recovery and management issues including the need for setting
tariffs to recover costs, and for studying road-user charges. In addition, DNV and the
Office for Planning and Budget (OPP) estimated that if 30% of the wood was transported
to rail heads by truck then to the ports, a total investment of US$ 190 million would be
needed (US$ 150 million for the road network and US$ 40 million for the rail network),
as opposed to US$ 600 million if all wood was to be transported to the port by road.

The Bank's evaluation indicated that there were 2 main corridors for transport of forest
products : The Fray Bentos port corridor and the Montevideo-Rivera corridor. In the Fray
Bentos Corridor, the short distances from the plantations to the port gave trucking a
competitive advantage over rail. In the Montevideo-Rivera corridor, a good rail operation
had a competitive advantage over trucking. The emphasis on the rail concession was an
attempt to improve operational level of service to a level substantially better than that
offered by AFE.

To satisfy the traffic in these two corridors, the "truck only scenario" (S1) included: i)
investments in the roads leading to the Fray Bentos Port plus investments in routes 6 and
7 leading to Montevideo, but no immediate investments in the Rivera-Montevideo
corridor. Over the 25 year life of the project there would be, however, heavy periodic
rehabilitation investments in the national roads of the Rivera- Montevideo corridor, to
compensate for the damage inflicted by the heavy trucks which carry the wood. In
addition, there would be investments in the port of Fray Bentos and in the handling
terminal of the port of Montevideo.

The "rail plus truck scenario" (S2) included all the investments in S1 and, in addition, rail
investments in the Montevideo-Rivera and Florida - Blanquillo. These rail investments
are made to attract to rail 40-50% of the traffic in the Montevideo - Rivera road corridor,
thereby saving considerably in the heavy periodic maintenance and reinforcing of bridges
of the roads of that corridor.

The main savings of S2 versus S1 come from the savings in avoided investments in road
rehabilitation in the Rivera - Montevideo corridor, the operation cost savings and the
savings in traffic accidents, congestion and urban maintenance of roads. These
externalities accounted only for 3-4% of the benefits. The incremental rate of return and
NPV@ 10% of the "rail plus truck option (S2) " compared to the "truck only (S1)" option
are respectively 39% and US$104.6 million. When compared with the "do-nothing"
situation the NPVs @ 10% of S2 and S1 were respectively US$632 and US$527.4
million.



                                             6

The economic evaluation of the two scenarios, under various assumptions (including
externalities) resulted in a higher NPV for S2, which then justified the design originally
presented in the PAD. As rail transportation is more cost-efficient for long distances, and
the plantations were in many different locations, most of the forest product corridors
consisted in roads, and two rail corridors identified during appraisal as efficient rail
corridors.

At the same time, an increase in private participation particularly in the railway and port
sectors was judged necessary and supported by GoU, despite union resistance and limited
precedents in the transport sector. This also reflected the shipper's concerns with AFE
and port handling which in their opinion lacked commercial orientation. Since the port of
Montevideo was the preferred choice for the export of forest products because it had no
draft limitations, the Montevideo-Rivera and Florida-Blanquillo lines were identified as
key land transport corridors, which would be best served by an efficient railway. The
Transport Sector Note identified that the GoU could not provide adequate funds to public
enterprises due to budgetary restriction and that private financing of infrastructure and
equipment was a priority in every sub-sector. In addition, the high level of subsidies paid
to AFE (US$ 18 million/year or US$ 8,352 per employee per year) strengthened the case
for an increase of private sector participation in this operating agency. Although, at that
time, private participation in transport infrastructure was limited to a road concession, a
few management contracts for the maintenance of roads, and some success in a
management contract for container handling in the port of Montevideo. The GoU
supported the idea of increasing private participation in AFE by introducing a line item in
the National Budget Law of January 1996, giving authorization to AFE, with previous
approval from the Executive, to grant concessions for the execution of works and
delivery of railway services, as a way of attracting private investment. Moreover, a letter
of commitment for the implementation of the rail concession for the transport of forest
products at AFE, signed by the Ministers of Transport, OPP and by AFE Board President
was received by the Bank in January 1997. Although a national "plebiscite" annulled the
privatization law approved by the previous government, the concession of operations was
not challenged and was considered a viable avenue as current laws did not prevent public
enterprises' infrastructure and equipment being operated under concessions, management
contracts or any combination thereof.

The participatory approach involving plantation owners contributed to including the
concession for transporting forest products on AFE's track system in the project design.
This was a second best alternative to a full concession of AFE which was politically
unfeasible. The plantation owners had been stressing the need for much higher efficiency
in the transport sector, which in their opinion could be achieved by increasing private
sector participation in the rail operation. The terms of reference of the logistics study
undertaken by CSI, which led to the proposed investment plan, took into account the
results of interview with the stakeholders. Once the first draft of the report was ready, the
Minister of Transport, on the "day of the Tree" in a public ceremony, described the
conclusions and the proposed investment plan. Once the final report was completed, it
was officially sent to the producers association who endorsed it.



                                              7

Finally, investment in ports other than Montevideo was considered necessary to further
reduce transportation costs of forest products. The development of alternative ports to
Montevideo was necessary, as the expected increase in traffic of forest products would
put pressure on the already limited space of the port of Montevideo. One solution was to
develop a new forest products terminal in the port of Montevideo and to extend the
capacity of the port of Fray Bentos so that it could serve better its hinterland. The
investment in Fray Bentos and in selected road corridors would have reduced the
distance and cost of transportation between the plantation and port of exit for the forest
products.

As a conclusion, the decision to invest in multimodal transport infrastructure and
increase efficiency through private participation was the result of a thorough project
preparation and the boom in forest products plantation at the time of appraisal. The
evaluation of the state of infrastructure at the time of appraisal and foreseen transport
infrastructure bottlenecks based on current and projected trends in exports of forest
products drove the need to investment in more than one mode of transport and prompted
the project to include a road, rail and port components. In addition, the participatory
approach contributed to the concession of AFE for the transportation of Forest Products.
Although there was a risk of resistance to the concession of AFE, mitigation measures
and the AFE's Board acceptance of the changes and GoU commitment to reform the
railways were strong and appeared decisive.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The project's implementation was impacted by a series of events and decisions, the most
important being the strong fiscal space restrictions in Uruguay and particularly in the
Ministry of Transport after the Argentine macroeconomic crisis, lower than expected
world demand and international price for forest products, the hesitance of Government to
move ahead with the partial concession of the railways (AFE); and later the competition
from new private ports, which was positive for the country. This resulted in delays in
implementation and several reformulations of the project until its closure in April 2006.

Economic crisis and limited fiscal space: The 2002 economic crisis in Uruguay had an
extremely negative impact on the implementation of the FPTP. One of the main factors
impeding implementation was the reduction in investment in the road sector that ensued
due to the 2002 crisis. From the onset of the crisis, the fiscal consolidation efforts of the
government resulted in reduced budget allocations, impacting on all existing loans,
including the FPTP. The Ministry of Transport budget in which the FPTP was included
was highly affected and the Minister had to make hard choices. This in turn negatively
impacted disbursement.

The economic situation in Uruguay began to deteriorate in the late 1990s, entering a
prolonged recession over 1999-2001 that ended in economic collapse in 2002. The crisis



                                               8

can be partly attributed to deteriorating external conditions, specifically the sharp
contraction in capital flows to the region, the strong real currency appreciation following
the Brazil devaluation in 1999 and finally that of Argentina in 2002. The prolonged
recession over 1999-2001 and the economic collapse in 2002 resulted in a contraction of
GDP contracting by nearly 20% over 1999-2002. Fiscal deficits rose to just over 4% of
GDP and, following the floating of the peso in mid 2002, the public debt-to-GDP ratio
doubled to 104.4% in 2003. The GoG negotiated IMF emergency financing in reponse to
the 2002 crisis--the largest ever IMF arrangement as a share of a country's GDP--tied to
an economic stabilization and structural reform program. Other Government measures
included a significant tightening of its fiscal policies through deep cuts in public
investment expenditures and a strict freeze on public sector wages and indirectly on
pensions.

The economic crisis resulted in a reduced fiscal space impacting capital investment in
transportation but increased at the same time the strategic importance of road corridors.
In the road sector in particular, these drastic budget restrictions required DNV to manage
its assets with half or less than the usual resources. Faced with a reduced budget, the
MTOP reacted by giving strong priority to road maintenance at the expense of new
investments in all transport sectors, a policy decision adopted to counterbalance the
negative effects of the economic crisis. The priority was to maintain the condition and
value of their road assets rather than expanding. This kept the road infrastructure
deterioration relatively well under control, notwithstanding the country's extremely
difficult economic situation. However, a direct implication was that MTOP could not
initiate any of the proposed new investments in the road and rail components of the
Forest Products project. At the same time, the need to reinforce the road corridors linked
to forest products was even more important, as they were essential to economic recovery.
This contributed to further delays in disbursement and the decision to allocate more
resources to the road component of the project.


Lower than expected demand for forest products, resulting in a change in the type of
demand for road/rail transportation: The world demand and price for forest products did
not grow as projected and in 2004 total export of forest products from Fray Bentos and
Montevideo was only 14% of the level projected. The price went down so much that in
2001-2002, it was better for producers not to harvest the trees. Unfavorable
circumstances in the international market kept prices below expectations and prevented
production and export growing as planned. Due to the nature of forest products,
producers could keep the stock in their plantations and decided to do so. These changes
in world demand and the strong increase in ocean shipping rates encouraged several
foreign companies to set-up wood processing plants in Uruguay. The development of
private ports and wood processing plants (such as M'Bopicuá) closer to the plantations
contributed to the diversification of exports of forest products from Uruguay but resulted
in a higher demand for road forest corridors, more cost efficient than railways for shorter
distances. The impact of the changes in the type of demand for transportation of forest
products contributed to the decision by the Bank team to agree on the request to
reallocate funds from the railway component to the road component. Also it was clear
that the Fray Bentos hinterland was the one where more plantations were active, making



                                              9

the road corridors to Fray Bentos a priority over the longer rail corridors from
Montevideo to Rivera. In his letter requesting the reallocation of funds from rail to road,
the Minister of Transport indicated that there was a clear shift in demand location and
that the hinterland of Fray Bentos was the most used by the plantation owners.
Moreover, as shown in the next graph, exports of forest products have started to rebound
and increased significantly since 2003 with more processing factories located in the
country. Although this industrialization scenario had been considered during preparation,
its probabilities were low before the Uruguayan currency devalued vis-a-vis the dollar.




                                         Source: MTOP


Protracted reform process of AFE: Although prequalification and bid documents were
ready almost after loan signing and there were three formal market expressions of
interest in the concession of forest products in AFE, there was no call for proposals. This
was due in part to AFE's reluctance in granting the right of operation to a company that
would potentially be its competitor. Additional factors were the proximity of presidential
elections and protests of the truckers who saw in the railway a government-financed
competitor.

One direct implication was that the Minister of Transport did not want to engage the
project's resources for track rehabilitation without institutional reform of AFE. Another
attempt was made in 2002 to reform AFE (detailed in Annex 4), resulting in the
separation of railway's infrastructure from operations but the improvement in level-of-
service did not come because no private operators expressed interest probably because of
the condition of the track.

Lack of counterpart funding: The shortage of counterpart funds led the Government to
make hard funding choices that ultimately impacted the project's disbursement and
allocation of funds. The GoU decided not to purchase rails with the project's resources,
but to obtain them from a debt that the country had with Russia. This decision directly
delayed the rail acquisition until 1998. In addition, the GoU decided to request a loan
from JEXIM, afterwards renamed JBIC, which was granted early in 1998. This request
resulted in the first reallocation of funds in March 1998, to adjust the percentage of
disbursements in Category 5 (Goods) to the pari-passu of that loan. Out of the US$30
million of the JBIC loan, US$28.3 million or 19.7% of the final project costs was applied



                                             10

by the government to the project payments of counterpart funds, a decision that reduced
the direct contribution of the government to the project and alleviated the financial
difficulties created by the crisis.

Private investment in ports, partly substituting for the need for public investment started
to appear closer to the plantations making road more competitive than rail in some
corridors because of the shorter distances: The rising production of agricultural, forestry
and livestock products bound for export markets outside of Mercosur was expected to
increase the demand for competitive transport services, particularly ports. This required
the development of efficient specialized terminals, not only in Montevideo, but also in
other regions close to plantation areas.

The private sector responded by taking the initiative to develop specialized terminals for
forestry and other bulk cargo. Pioneer investments were made or are being considered
and involve some of the largest firms in the world. As detailed earlier, Eufores opened its
chipping plant in Peñarol in 2003 and Botnia is following with a cellulose plant
involving investment of over US$ 1 billion. The proposed plant would multiply the
volume of production eight fold and generate an important increase in the demand for
transport.

The development of private forest product's ports led to a diversification in ports of
exports of forest products from Uruguay. Although Montevideo remained the main port
for the export of forest products with a share of 57% of all exports of forest products,
other ports such as M'Bopicua and Nueva Palmira are now contributing to 25% of total
exports of forest products. This successful increase in private investment in the port
sector, together with the lack of fiscal space for the project, prompted the GoU to
reconsider some port investment, such as the extension of the port of Fray Bentos.
However, the new administration decided ultimately to undertake the investment, as the
private port development appears to be more a consequence of growth in world demand
for wood, the weaker peso and growing private sector interest in locating ports closer to
the plantations rather than problems due to inefficiencies of the state operated port. In
addition, all forestry producers indicated that their decision to invest was prompted by
the existence of a good road network financed by the project. M'bopicua is a complete
integrated industrial park and its port focuses exclusively on exporting chips products
processed within its industrial zone, whereas Fray Bentos is specializing in the export of
unprocessed wood.

                                                   Export in Forest Products


                                700,000

                                600,000

                                500,000                                              Puerto de M'bopicuá
                                400,000                                              (ENCE)

                           Tons 300,000                                              Puerto de Fray Bentos

                                200,000

                                100,000

                                     0

                                       1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005




                                                                   11

                                          Source: MTOP


Success and extension of output-based maintenance contracts: the Second Transport
Project (STP) was approved in September 1998 and was completed in September 2003.
This road-only project addressed primarily maintenance and without structural reforms in
other modes as the FPTP. This project supported the road maintenance program of
MTOP and especially the use of output-based maintenance contracts (CREMA).
Following the success of the STP and the need for the GoU to focus its limited resources
on road maintenance, it was decided to reinforce further the roads corridors by adding
other CREMA contracts to the STP. As some CREMA contracts could not be completed
when the STP closed in 2003, and it was already decided to refocus the investment on
road corridors, these maintenance contracts were incorporated in the FPTP as they
supported the cost efficient rehabilitation and maintenance of key forest product transport
corridors.

Impact on project and actions taken by the Bank: The abovementioned events severely
impacted the implementation of the project as originally designed, and justified a
stronger focus on the road corridors. In fact the best scenario faced by the country was
neither S1 or S2 but something in between in which most of the demand was coming
from shorter distances to new ports by roadwith a longer-term need to improve the
railway so that it could handle longer distance transport from Rivera .The Bank exercised
flexibility in order to maximize the project's developmental impact in the new context.
The team avoided canceling the rail component and maintained close supervision, in
order to keep the pressure on the need to reform AFE. In addition, it recognized the even
more strategic role of the road corridors by agreeing to reallocate funds from the rail
component to the road component, with the promise that the GoU would maintain its
long-term objective of rehabilitating the railway and reform AFE. The actions taken by
the Bank are detailed in section 5 (Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PDO was "to facilitate the cost-efficient transport of forestry products from forest to
port-of-exit through the rehabilitation of transport infrastructure". The 3 indicators in the
PAD referring to PDO are (i) share of Forest Products Transported by rail as a % of total
exports by the Port of Montevideo, (ii) Forest Products Transported by AFE in 1000's
tons/year (all operators over AFE lines) for export, and (iii) Forest Products Traffic by
the Port of Fray Bentos in 1000's tons/year.

These three indicators were appropriate for measuring the impact of specific components
of the project, which would in turn result in the achievement of the PDO. The increased
role of AFE in the transportation of forest products (measured by indicator (i) and (ii))
would directly result in a more road plus rail cost-efficient transport of forest products, a
proper measure of the S2 scenario. The contribution of the road rehabilitation and port
investment was reflected in the indicator (iii), as, the improvement of road conditions
would have benefited exports of forest products from Fray Bentos.




                                              12

Although the M&E system was well designed to measure the impact of individual
components as originally defined in the PAD, the changes in allocation made it necessary
to add additional indicators to take into consideration the increased importance of road
corridors and the development of private ports. A set of outcome targets to measure the
overall achievement of the cost-efficient transport of forest products by all modes was
introduced after the reallocation of funds from rail       to the road component      it was
decided not to cancel the railway component but rather reallocate its funds, while
maintaining the policy dialogue to ensure that some reforms would be implemented, the
indicators measuring AFE's contribution to the export of forest products remained in the
M&E system. At the same time, the client was asked to provide the exports of forest
products from the port of Montevideo (not just transported by rail), in order to take into
account the increased focus on forest road corridors. In addition, the positive increase in
private participation in the road and port sector was not incorporated in the original M&E
system but was tracked on a regular basis. The original M&E system would have
benefited from road-specific indicators (as in a road-only project) and the inclusion of the
total export of forest products from public and private ports.

Following the lower demand for forest products and GoU's decision to delay AFE's track
rehabilitation and reforms, the Bank agreed to review the values of key performance
indicators which were rail-related in order to reflect the reality of the situation in 2002.
As a result, the second and third target indicators (described earlier in this section) were
formally updated to a lower value. The "Forest Product Transported by AFE in 1000's
tons/year for export" was reduced from 1498 to 55 and the "Forest Products Traffic by
the Port of Fray Bentos in 1000's tons/year" reduced from 2469 to 340. Although not
formally included in the M&E system, the"Share of Forest Products in the export from
the Port of Montevideo " was reported on a regular basis, and allowed better monitoring
of the impact of the road component on exports of forest products.

In summary, it appears that the M&E system designed at preparation was appropriate to
monitor individual component and implementation, based on the rail plus road (S2)
scenario chosen at appraisal. The emphasis on the rail participation was justified by the
need to ensure the success of this component at the time of appraisal, but it was rightly
maintained even after re-allocation of funds, to keep pressure on the need to reform the
railway. In retrospect, following the changes in demand for transportation of forest
products and project fund allocation, it would have been justified to have included
indicators to measure the overall output of transport by all modes. Such an additional
indicator was added when the reallocation from rail to road took place and allowed a
measure of the overall contribution of all modes to the exports of forest products through
the port of Montevideo. This indicator wastracked by the supervision team and
periodically reported by the Borrower during supervision. However, the inclusion of all
ports (public and private and not just Montevideo ) would have taken into consideration
the positive impact of the road component of the project on total exports of forest
products from private ports.




                                             13

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project was rated as Category B in the environmental assessment. Two main reports
were undertaken to assess the environmental impact of the project. There was a regular
monitoring of the environmental aspect of the project during supervision and the
triggered safeguards (the Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Forestry and
Involuntary Resettlement) were all rated satisfactory during the life of the project. There
was no fiduciary and safeguard issue reported during the implementation of the project.
Statistics on the number of hectares of forested and grasslands since 1990 were also
provided by the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The transport infrastructure sector road reform benefited from institutional continuity
with subsequent operations.

In the road sector, continuity was ensured by the Transport Infrastructure Maintenance
and Rural Access Project (TIMRA), approved by the Board in April 2005. The TIMRA's
main objective is to "upgrade the country's transport infrastructure to a condition that
facilitates the transportation of freight and passengers at a cost-efficient level of service".
The project has also several subsidiary development objectives, including assisting
MTOP in creating the enabling environment to consolidate its ability to attract more
steady and reliable funding for the maintenance and rehabilitation of transport
infrastructure and enhance infrastructure management services.

The continuity for the railway reform was ensured through policy dialogue. The Bank
investment and support did not result in the reform initially designed and agreed in the
FPTP and the railway's structure was subsequently reverted to the vertically integrated
public model although the 2005 budget law creates incentives for private sector
participation.. However, the ongoing dialogue during the supervision of FPTP
contributed in convincing AFE and the MTOP of the need to reform further the railways,
and to continue investing in infrastructure rehabilitation and equipment. The GoU is
investigating alternative models to reform the railways and is keeping the Bank informed
of the discussions but it is not clear at this stage when the reform will be completed and
what will be the model chosen, given the stronger role played by the railway union in the
management of the railway in the present administration. However, it was decided that
the TIMRA will not finance any railway investments until the GoU actually undertakes a
reform that will make the railway more commercially-oriented and attractive to shippers.

In terms of follow-up by the Bank, although a decision was made not to include a railway
component in TIMRA, it is recommended to maintain our involvement in helping GoU


                                                14

improve further the efficiency of the railways. There has been improvement in efficiency
since 2002 and the current administration seems more aware of the need to further
improve efficiency and to move ahead with reforms. As said earlier, railway reforms are
known to be difficult and take time to implement, and an ongoing policy dialogue is
likely to result in a solution acceptable to all stakeholders. The discussion evolved from a
partial concession at the time of appraisal to a potentially unique institutional structure
being currently considered by GoU which includes the private sector . At the same time,
it is clear that the Bank should be even more cautious and wait to see concrete and clear
steps before engaging in supporting future railway investments.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives were of high overall relevance at the time of approval and they
have remained very relevant until today. As explained in section 1.1, the economic
situation in Uruguay at the time of appraisal was very favorable for transportation
investments which would facilitate the export of forest products. In addition the world
market demand for wood for cellulose was also high, confirming immediate/early
demand for transportation of forest products. Moreover, the project was clearly in line
with the CAS objectives, as it contributed to enhancing the competitiveness of the
economy and to support policy changes designed to increase private sector participation
and rationalize public expenditures. In fact, even if the railway rehabilitation investment
did not take place as planned in the FPTP, the outcome of the project reflect some
forward thinking that is now being lauded by the producers because the transport
network is well positioned to accommodate the upsurge of forestry investments in the
region. The Bank consulted extensively with the Government and ensured a participatory
approach to define the project objectives, design and implementation arrangements.

The development objectives remained relevant, even after the impact of the Argentine
economic crisis, as Uruguay needed even more than ever cost-efficient transportation
services to support its recovery. The 2002 CAS Progress report noted that the 2000 CAS
lending scenario was no longer appropriate and called for a program targeting three
objectives including "increasing competitiveness". The CAS progress report noted that
"increasing infrastructure access and maintaining existing networks will be important to
support economic growth and foster integration of marginalized urban groups and rural
populations". Thus, the operation remained important in achieving the country's
development objectives during the crisis and it is likely that without the quality of road
infrastructure financed by the FPTP, the economy would have suffered much more.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The project substantially achieved its main development objective namely "to facilitate
the cost-efficient transport of forestry products from forest to port-of-exit through the



                                                15

rehabilitation of transport infrastructure". It also achieved its subsidiary objective of
"increasing productivity in the road and port sectors and improving efficiency while
reducing subsidies to AFE through private sector participation in the operations of forest
products transport". This was done despite the change in demand for transportation of
forest products, combined with the fiscal constraints facing the GoU. The changing
conditions during implementation made the need for investment in the port and rail
sector not as important as initially planned and resulted in an increased focus of the
project on forest road corridors in order to achieve the PDO. The principal PDO was
achieved mostly through the road component, mainly by reducing the vehicle operating
cost by 5-20% on the rehabilitated forest road corridors, and reducing GoU's overall
investment in roads assets through more efficient maintenance. The subsidiary objective
was satisfactorily achieved in the road sector - through the subcontracting of road
rehabilitation and maintenance - and in the port sectors - through increased private
participation -, but only marginally in the rail sector through the support to the reforms
that took place in 2002.

The design of the project was made at appraisal to maximize the development objectives
and mitigate the main risks. The economic analysis performed during appraisal and
discussion with forest products growers demonstrated that a multimodal integration for
each forest corridor would have maximized the project development impact. The partial
concession of AFE for the transport of forest products was decided as a second best
solution, taking into consideration GoU support for the reforms but also the reluctance of
unions to accept change.

The events that took place during implementation increased the strategic importance of
forest road corridors, as explained in section 2.2. This situation, combined with the
Minister's decision not to invest in the railway without institutional reform, called for
more investment in forest roads corridors. The Bank responded to GoU's request and
decided to change the project's design to concentrate more on the road sector for the
transportation of forest products.

However, the changes did not require the Bank to modify the PDO and the due diligence
done by the Bank following the GoU's request introduced additional measures to
maximize the project's development impact in the new context. The proposed allocation
became closer to scenario S1 (described in Annex 3), involving mainly road
rehabilitation and maintenance, which was assessed during appraisal as an economically
viable scenario. As the loan funds ended-up being mainly allocated to road works, there
was a risk that the project would benefit corridors not mainly used for the transport of
forest products. The team requested that only road corridors used for the transportation of
forest products (identified as those with traffic composed of more than 25% of forest
product during harvest time) be included. In addition, although the concession of AFE
was not anymore expected, the project maintained the PDO (incl. reference to AFE's
efficiency) to insist on the need to reform the railway, which allowed to maintain policy
dialogue with AFE during implementation.

As there was no general indicator included in the original PAD that would measure the



                                            16

achievement of the development objective by all modes, the evaluation considers the
"Export of Forest Products from all Uruguayan Ports". This indicator is directly
influenced not only by the quality and cost efficiency of the ports but also of land-
transport assets, as forests are not located near the ports. This indicator would also
measure the contribution of private ports, the development of which was partly supported
by the project. Exports from all Uruguayan ports have increased significantly, from
558,673 tons in 1997 to 2,123,139 tons in 2005 (or an increase of 280%) and the increase
has been exponential since 2001. Montevideo remains the main port for export of forest
products with a share of 57% of all exports of forest products, but other ports such as
Nueva Palmira and M'Bopicua are increasing in importance and representing
respectively 15% and 10% of total export of forest products in 2005.


                                        Exports of Forest Products from Uruguayan Ports


                               2,500,000


                               2,000,000


                      rae                                                              M'Bopicua
                               1,500,000
                                                                                       Nueva Palmira
                         /ysnto                                                        Fray Bentos
                               1,000,000
                                                                                       Montevideo

                                500,000


                                      0
                                         1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005


                                                         Source: MTOP


Impact of individual components on the PDO (incl. subsidiary)
Road Component: The contribution of the road component to the development
objectives was highly satisfactory. The project directly contributed to a decrease of 5-
20% in vehicle operating costs on key forest corridors and an increase in efficiency of
expenditure in roads' rehabilitation and maintenance through the subcontracting of these
operations and private participation schemes (Megaconcession, CREMA and micro-
enterprises). The project also contributed to strengthening DNV's capacity to replace
operations previously under force account by more cost-effective contracts with the
private sector. As shown below, around 42% of the network managed by DNV was
maintained under contract in some form of partnership with the private sector in 2004,
compared to 19.4% in 1998.




                                                              17

                                        Maintenance by Private Sector


                       45.00%                                                  42%
                                                        40%
                       40.00%                   39%
                                                                 36%    35%
                       35.00%
                                        30%
                       30.00%

                       25.00%
                      %        19.40%
                       20.00%

                       15.00%

                       10.00%

                        5.00%

                        0.00%
                                1998    1999    2000    2001     2002   2003   2004


                                               Source: MTOP


Railway Component: The railway component did not achieve its initial objectives
despite strong supervision but supported the improvement of AFE's efficiency. As
demonstrated by the indicators measuring the impact of the rail component, the project
failed to increase AFE's share in the transport of forest products because both the planned
track rehabilitation and private sector participation were delayed or postponed by GoU.
The share of AFE in transportation of forest products to be exported decreased from a
27% peak in 1998 to a low 8% in 2002, before increasing to 11% in 2004. However,
although the project did not directly result in the increase in efficiency, the ongoing
dialogue with GoU on the need to reform AFE supported the separation of infrastructure
and railways, and the reduction in AFE's workforce. Since 2002, the performance of AFE
improved due to an increase in revenues from transportation of freight and improvement
in operating ratio of 277% between 1987 and 2005 (operating expenses over operating
revenues). This resulted in total subsidies being reduced by more than 60% from US$ 17
million in 1997 to US$ 6.6 million in 2005. This was a major achievement in a railway
where little or nothing happened in the last fifty years. AFE is also now more aware of
the need to further improve its efficiency and to be commercially oriented, as
demonstrated by the current discussions taking place on future institutional reforms to be
implemented as early as 2007.

Port Component: The project had an indirect positive impact on the development of
ports, mainly by supporting the development of private ports, which contributed to
improvement in efficiency over the last five years. Such development, according to
private port owners, was possible thanks to the reliability of the road network, which
benefited from the rehabilitation and maintenance of the road component and, in some
cases provided access links. Exports of forest products from the port of Fray Bentos and
M'bopicua increased by 478% between 1997 and 2005 but were below the level initially
defined during appraisal due to the lower than expected growth in trees harvested.
Exports from the two ports have still increased by 378%, or an average of 47% every
year, since 1997. As explained earlier, the development of private ports benefited from
favorable GoU's policy and the improved road network, and contributed to increasing the
efficiency of Uruguayan ports while reducing the need for GoU to invest public funds in
this sector. The increase in maritime shipping rates encouraged private companies to
process wood into chips before exporting them, and contributed to the development of


                                                    18

industrial sites such as M'Bopicua, with its own port. The inclusion of exports from the
private port of M'bopicua, which also benefited from the improved road access financed
by the project, provides a better illustration of the achievement of the PDO.


                                               Export in Forest Products


                             700,000

                             600,000

                             500,000                                              Puerto de M'bopicuá

                        ns   400,000                                              (ENCE)

                          To 300,000                                              Puerto de Fray Bentos

                             200,000

                             100,000

                                  0

                                   1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005


                                                         Source: MTOP


In addition, the successful increase in private participation in the port sector was partly
responsible for lower than expected exports from public ports. As explained in Annex 4,
the decision to sign the contract for the extension of the pier of Fray Bentos was put on
hold until the change in Government, following concerns about the need for such work
given the development of a private port close to Fray Bentos. The recent increase in
demand and request from producers other than the owner of the neighboring private port,
led the new administration sign and initiate the contract for the extension of the pier
which is underway.

Finally, the project enabled the continuous operations of the port of Fray Bentos
following an accident caused by a freighter. The project financed the rehabilitation of the
existing Fray Bentos pier, following the accident that led to an interruption of operations.
This support, while the GoU sought damages from the shipping line insurance, allowed a
quick rehabilitation of Fray Bentos to continue operating and supported the increase in
export from Fray Bentos. Once it received the insurance payments the amount spent on
the rehabilitation was returned to the loan.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The evaluation of efficiency for this project will be compared to what was expected for
scenario S1. At the end, the quasi totality of funds was allocated to the road component
(95%), which explains why the ex-post economic evaluation would compare the project
to scenario S1 of appraisal instead of Scenario S2. The details of the economic evaluation
are presented in Annex 5.

The ex-ante economic evaluation for the project evaluated two scenarios: (i) the truck
only scenario (S1) included investments in routes 6 and 7 leading to Montevideo, in
addition to investments in the port of Fray Bentos, and (ii) the rail plus truck scenario



                                                               19

(S2) included all the investment in S1 and, in addition, rail investment in the
Montevideo-Rivera and Florida-Blanquillo lines. The two scenarios (S1 and S2) were
compared to a do-nothing situation (S0). In reality the latest allocation looks closer to S1
than S2 and it must be noted that scenarios S1 and S2 were both considered economically
feasible in the PAD but that S2 was selected as the scenario resulting in the highest
economic NPV.

As the financial evaluation at appraisal was mainly based on the railway component and
there was no investment in railways, it is not possible to estimate the ex-post financial
rate of return. It is, however, possible to estimate the fiscal savings due to the railway
streamlining which was induced by the project as explained later in this section.

The ex-post Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is reasonably high, although below the one
calculated ex-ante for S1 which had an ERR of 63%. The ex-post economic evaluation of
the project resulted in an ERR of 24%, based on an investment of $US 64.3 million. The
difference in ERR comes from the fact that the demand was not as high (lower forest
products growth) as initially anticipated and occurred later rather than earlier (see section
2.2 for the details of events impacting implementation).

As most of the investment resulted in the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads, the
financial analysis was not applicable anymore and thus not calculated ex-post. The ex-
ante financial analysis resulted in a net benefit of US$ 941 million (with a discount rate
of 10%) or an IRR of 55%.

The reduction in subsidies to AFE was important mainly due to staff reduction. The
fiscal impact of the project, following the concession of AFE, was estimated at US$ 23.5
million in additional taxes and US$ 35.3 in savings in subsidies following the successful
implementation of the project. The project contributed indirectly in improving AFE by
pressing the GoU to implement an alternative reform for AFE and reduce its operating
costs. The improvement of AFE's efficiency allowed the GoU to reduce the yearly
subsidies by 60% from US$ 17 million in 1997 to US$ 6.6 million in 2005.

In conclusion, it can be said that the project efficiency from an economic return
standpoint was not as high as anticipated but remained high, as the investment in road
rehabilitation contributed to achieving an Economic Rate of Return of 24%. In addition,
the 60% reduction in yearly subsidies to AFE is a satisfactory financial achievement and
can be directly linked to the project's intense pursuit of AFE's streamlining and
institutional improvement through provision of technical advisors to AFE and MTOP and
visits to other railways in the region which are concessioned to the private sector.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project is evaluated based on its primary objective, which is to "facilitate the cost-
efficient transport of forestry products from forest to port-of-exit through the



                                             20

rehabilitation of transport infrastructure". The subsidiary objective, which was to
"increase productivity in the road and port sectors and improve efficiency while reducing
subsidies to the national rail carrier (AFE) through private sector participation in the
operations of forest products transport", is still considered important but should have a
lower weight in the final rating based on the fact that it is a subsidiary one.

As explained in section 3.2, the project achieved its development objectives mainly
through the contribution of the road component and to a lesser extent through the port
and rail components. The project development objectives were relevant at appraisal and,
even after the severe economic crisis, remained relevant.

In terms of efficiency, the project had a lower than anticipated Economic Rate of Return
(24% vs. 63% in the PAD) but the result remains very robust given the lower than
expected forest product growth. The reduction in yearly subsidies to AFE by 60% is
another positive achievement of reforms pushed by the project. The development of
private ports did also benefit from an improved road network, in addition to Government
initiatives through Bank dialogue to increase private participation in ports and roads.

As a result, the achievement of PDO is considered satisfactory essentially through the
contribution of the road component of the project for the main project's objective
(facilitate the cost-efficient transport of forestry products from forest to port-of-exit
through the rehabilitation of transport infrastructure). The subsidiary objective was
satisfactorily achieved for the road and port sectors but only marginally satisfactory for
AFE. It is therefore concluded that the Overall Outcome Rating is Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project is expected to have a positive impact on poverty by contributing to the
facilitation of exports of forest products and providing employment. However, the
reduction in transportation cost was the central theme of the project, as illustrated by the
PDO. Poverty impact, gender aspect and social development were more a consequence of
the project's success and were therefore not included in the M&E system. As a result, the
assessment of poverty impact, gender aspects and social development assessment is not
applicable for this project.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

This project had a substantial impact on institutional strengthening, especially in the
road and port sectors. The impact on AFE was more limited than expected but remained
positive.

In the road sector, the project through its support to the contracting out of maintenance
and rehabilitation works, strengthened the planning capacity of the MTOP, as well as the


                                               21

companies involved in the CREMA contracts and Megaconcession (Corporacion
Nacional de Desarrollo and Corporacion Vial de Uruguay). Furthermore, the project
helped Uruguay in the preparation of an Agenda for Transport Reform with a clear
definition of the main issues and options in the sector. The study on road user charges
and the extensive reviews on trucking led to important trucking legislation and also to the
acquisition of scales (not financed by the project) to control axleloads.

In addition, it is worth noting that MTOP improved its environmental assessment and
monitoring capacity during the life of the project and the Environmental manuals for
roads, ports and railway greatly contributed to this effort. Unlike several institutions in
Latin America, the Environmental Unit of DNV is composed of a group of people whose
responsibility is to watch over the environmental and social management in each of the
stages of the project cycle. DNV is developing a series of initiatives directed at
enhancing technical capacity of its officials, including training activities and the
implementation of changes in the organizational structure aimed at improving further
environmental and social management.

The project increased AFE's knowledge of options for private participation and
contributed to giving it a more commercial orientation. Visits to neighboring, privately
operated railways were organized for the Ministry and AFE's staff. Several options for
private participation were analyzed during preparation and the policy dialogue during
supervision contributed to the implementation of the separation of railway's
infrastructure from operations. Finally, the recent exercise of rehabilitation applied the
same principle as performance-based contracts, used on a regular basis in the road sector.
This attempt, together with recent talks about reforms, is showing a change in attitude
towards applying road maintenance and rehabilitation concepts to the railway sector. It is
too early to say how this will move ahead, but it is clear that the current project and
ongoing Bank's involvement in the road sector, have contributed to strengthening the
institutions.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

In order to measure the success of the concession of transport of forest products to the
private sector in AFE, a survey was expected to be conducted every two years to check
the views of the various stakeholders. As the railway rehabilitation and reform did not
take place, the survey was not conducted in a formal way but the Project Implementation
Unit made informal phone interviews on a regular basis to the producers and Association
of Forest Products to identify their concerns and to suggest improvements. In the case of
the railway, the main complaint continues to be slow operations and delays in making
wagons available for loading. AFE is taking steps to improve operations management




                                                22

and increase its fleet through rehabilitation and modernization.




4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Railways reforms not taking place: If future reform of the railways does not take place,
resulting in a higher share of forest products being transported by road, there would be an
increasing burden on roads and negative impact on the transportation costs of forest
products, particularly in the Montevideo-Rivera corridor. AFE has improved its
efficiency in the last 3 years and the current administration seems keen on moving
forward with institutional reforms to further improve it. However, AFE's share of
transported forest products for export is currently around 11%, which means that there is
currently an imbalance in favor of transportation by trucks, even for long distance. In this
situation, and with exports of forest products increasing significantly in recent years, the
burden of heavily-loaded trucks on the roads will require an increasing investment in
road rehabilitation, which might raise the overall cost of transportation of forest products
and the number of road accidents. The risk is assessed to be moderate, mainly based on
the fact that the current administration is willing to reform the railway and appears more
aware of the need to better integrate road and rail transportation particularly in the
Montevideo-Rivera corridor.

Lower future demand for wood products: This risk is considered Low. The government
has a long-term interest in developing the forestry industry. The forestry law was enacted
in 1987 and provided several incentives to increase private investment in this sector.
Pioneer investments have been made in the industrial processing of wood, from pulp and
cellulose to sawn-timber products. As shown in section 2.2, exports of forest products
have been above US$ 140 million in 2004. The only risk that could potentially impact the
development of wood-processing industry could be additional political tension with
Argentina over the ecological impact of the construction of a cellulose plant in the
industrial area of M'Bopicua. It is difficult at this stage to determine the implication on
Uruguay 's attractiveness for private investment in this sector, but so far all big world
forest corporations are flocking to Uruguay.

Deterioration of assets due to lower funding available for road maintenance: This risk is
considered moderate. Uruguay has demonstrated during the economic crisis its capacity
of managing well its roads assets by adopting a strict policy of maintenance but such a
policy cannot be sustained indefinitely and the recent levels of expenditure are not
sufficient to ensure the adequate conservation of road assets. The lack of fiscal space
and/or counterpart funding is a Medium risk identified during the preparation of the
Transport Infrastructure Maintenance and Rural Access Project in 2005. This is mainly
caused by the tight fiscal situation currently facing Uruguay. This risk is mitigated partly
by the new Bank and IDB projects, which will contribute to financing part of the network
rehabilitation, but the fiscal situation might also limit the availability of counterpart
funding, thus impacting project's implementation.



                                              23

However, it is also a limitation in securing future financing from the private sector. In
fact, the uncertainty regarding future budget allocations will be a strong deterrent for the
implementation of some contractual schemes such as the Megaconcession depending on
credible funding arrangements. The risk that the government might not honor its payment
commitments to the private sector on schedule will certainly be reflected in the prices
and could limit the success of these instruments.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The design of the project benefited from a thorough due diligence to maximize impact on
lowering transportation costs of forest products. An in-depth sector analysis was done to
determine the demand for freight transportation and issues facing the railways. This
included the preparation of a Transport Sector Note on Uruguay, as well as a major study
on Uruguay 's forestry production and transport infrastructure. Two scenarios were
identified and an economic analysis was performed to determine the option that would
maximize the economic value of the project. In addition, the impact of several
alternatives such as forest product industrialization (incl. construction of cellulose and
chip plants) and the reduction of wood production were tested to ensure that the
economic impact of the project would be satisfactory even in the worst case scenario.
Finally, beneficiary groups were clearly identified during preparation and a participatory
approach was undertaken from the early stage to better design the project.

Previous experience was taken into consideration, risks identified and properly mitigated
at entry. The PAD clearly spells out the lessons learned from the previous transport
operations in Uruguay. They helped identify some key risks, including the need for
strong support and difficulty of privatization in the transport sector, and the need to
ensure that tariff levels would allow full recovery of long-run variable costs. This resulted
in the design of specific components (such as the study of road user charges and the
review of trucking legislation) or mitigation measures for the railway component.
Regarding Government support for the reform, the team obtained a letter of commitment
for the implementation of the rail concession at AFE, signed by the Minister of Transport,
the Budget Planning Office (OPP) and AFE Board President in 1997. A review of the
concession process was also planned within one year of effectiveness.

The design of the M&E system was well chosen to monitor individual components but
additional indicators could have been included to measure the overall outcome. This
became relevant after the fiscal crisis prompted a more road-oriented project. As
explained in section 2.3, the indicators designed during preparation were of very good
quality to monitor achievement of rail and port components. Indicators were however
missing in the original PAD to measure the substantial achievement of the overall PDO



                                              24

and the direct impact of the road component because they were too rail-oriented.
However, additional data was collected by the Borrower and allows for the determination
of the project's contribution to its Development Objectives.

The design included strong and practical support to railways reforms and management of
road assets. There was a real attempt to fully support the railway reforms by involving all
stakeholders in the design of the project. This included Ministries, AFE, the forest
producers and wood processing industry, shippers and truckers. In addition, the
institutional development and policy component provided the bid documents to be used
in the concession process and key advisors. These advisors worked with the Minister of
Transport and the President of AFE to further rationalize and streamline operations and
maintenance to decrease the perceived risks of the concession. The study of road-user
charges was included to provide a rational basis for tariff setting and cost recovery (incl.
operations and maintenance expenses, as well as investment requirements) and the study
on trucking led to important legislation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank's oversight and
supervision was very extensive with 28 missions recorded during the 9 years of the
project, and a minimum of 2 missions each year. The Bank supervision team showed
continuity with the following operation in 2005 prepared by the same TTL, with lessons
from the project incorporated in the design. The missions were adequately reported in
Aide-Memoires and ISR that gave an up-to-date overview of all components of the
project and included sector, safeguard and fiduciary specialists. More specifically, the
challenges faced in the railways reforms, views of the TTL, and options discussed with
the client were well reported during the life of the project.

Although the loan was amended several times, the project components remained in line
with the development objectives. The design of the project was changed several times
following requests from Government but the team ensured that the added components in
the road sector would involve sections used for the transportation of forest products.
Despite the postponement of the planned rail concession and its substitution for a
separation of operations and infrastructure model, the focus remained on improving the
cost efficiency of the transportation of forest products, which could still take place with a
stronger allocation to the road component. This explains why the primary and subsidiary
objectives remained satisfactory over the life of the project.

The team put a lot of effort in the supervision of the project, showing flexibility following
the macroeconomic crisis, and on-going focus on supporting the railways reforms
through policy dialogue and technical assistance. Following the macroeconomic crisis
and the GoU request for re-allocation of funds from rail to road, the Bank agreed to the
changes and made sure they were included in the legal documents. The Bank also
requested a detailed action plan with a commitment to improve the implementation of the



                                                25

project. Although the initial request was for a two-year extension, the Bank agreed to one
year, with the possibility of a second year depending on the performance, particularly of
the rail component. This was subsequently granted following GoU effort to improve
project implementation performance (as described below). The flexibility to adapt the
project to the macroeconomic crisis was crucial to maintain the backspine of the country,
its road network, which with the reformulation of the project was kept in good quality in
dire economic times.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank rating is satisfactory. The project was well designed with thorough
preparation. In addition, the supervision was done in a professional way despite the
occurrence of several events and decisions that impacted the project. The team
demonstrated flexibility but remained focused on the development objectives to enable
the project to achieve its development outcome and maintained close supervision,
including strong position regarding the need to undertake reforms and improve
implementation. Finally, the rating is justified due to the Bank's performance at entry and
performance at supervision being both rated "Satisfactory".

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government performance was rated moderately satisfactory, mainly due to the
limited support during implementation for the concession of the railways, despite
stronger support during preparation, and lack of counterpart funds.

The reduction of fiscal space, following the impact of the Argentine crisis, made GoU
focus on maintenance instead of new investment in road assets. This impacted the project
but this decision made sense due to the exceptional economic conditions that occurred
and the slower than expected growth of the world market for forest products.

The Government showed a very strong initial commitment to the development objectives
and reforms. During project preparation, the Government showed strong support to the
project and its development objectives through (i) the legislation encouraging the
development of plantations, (i) preparation of the Office of Planning and Budget of an
infrastructure investment plan to move forest products, requiring a well-conceived
intermodal mix, and (iii) provision to the Bank of a letter of commitment for the
implementation of the rail concession at AFE.

However, it did not provide sufficient strength to overcome the opposition within AFE
for the concession to take place. The mission noted since 1999 that AFE's feedback on
the concession bid documents was taking too long and that the Ministries of Transport
and Economy did not seem willing or capable of forcing AFE to undertake a restructuring
plan. However, it must be recognized that the Ministry of Transport did not allow AFE to



                                             26

proceed with bids on rail rehabilitation without an institutional reform and threatened to
cut the subsidies to the railway entity. And his stance was consistent until it approved the
separation of operations and infrastructure. But at that time its administration was ending.

Finally, the current administration seems very aware of the need to reform the railways to
improve its efficiency and increase its share of transport of Forest Products. The
Government is currently preparing a new reform of AFE and planning a rehabilitation of
its main network, to further support exports, including forest products. The objective of
the institutional reform is to increase commercial focus and attractiveness of the railways
to private participation. However, it is too early to tell if and when the reform will take
place.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Implementing
Agency               Performance

                     Satisfactory. The overall road component was satisfactorily
Dirección Nacional implemented by DNV during the life of the project. Some delays
de Vialidad (DNV) occurred mainly due to procurement procedures and the lack of
                     counterpart funding.
                     Unsatisfactory. Although AFE managed to improve its efficiency
                     during the life of the project, the concession failed mainly due to
Administración de    resistance of the entity to see the initial reform implemented. It was
Ferrocarriles del
Estado (AFE)         clear that AFE wanted the infrastructure rehabilitation but opposed
                     the institutional reforms to increase private sector participation in its
                     operations.
                     Satisfactory. The implementation of the reconstruction of the Fray
Administración       Bentos port, following an accident caused by a freighter, went well.
Nacional de Puertos There was a long delay in the extension of the port but it was mainly
(ANP)                due to the Government decision not to move ahead following the
                     construction of a private port just above Fray Bentos.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall rating of Borrower Performance is Moderately Satisfactory. The rating of
implementing agencies was moderately unsatisfactory due to the resistance of AFE to the
reforms and weak Government's pressure on AFE, which limited the impact of the
project on the overall reduction in transportation costs for forest products. However, it
was also taken into consideration that a stronger road component would still achieve the
PDO. Although the Government rating was moderately satisfactory and the
implementation agencies' rating was moderately unsatisfactory, the achievement of the
development outcomes was in the satisfactory range, which justifies the final rating based
on the ICR guidelines (2006).




                                             27

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The impact of funding constraints and fiscal policies should not be underestimated. The
lack of fiscal space and/or counterpart funding remains a major risk for fiscally
constrained countries. The financial crisis forced MTOP to slow down the
implementation of various initiatives that were being tested with promising results. The
execution of several contracts in the road sector was delayed due to budget constraints.
The focus on road maintenance during the crisis was appropriate but it was also noticed
that such a policy cannot be sustained without periodic rehabilitation of road assets.
Moreover, this policy could not avoid the slight but progressive deterioration of road
conditions, and a program of rehabilitation is still needed to avoid a decline in road assets
value. While it was not possible to predict the economic crisis that hit Uruguay, projects
in fiscally constrained countries should be designed to take into consideration past
expenditure in rehabilitation and maintenance, in addition to the level needed to maintain
the state/value of road assets. This has been the case in the Transport Infrastructure
Maintenance and Rural Access Project, approved in 2005. If the country signs an
agreement with the IMF and there is a Pilot Investment Program , the road rehabilitation
projects should be strong candidates to avoid restrictions in budget allocation and have
priority in disbursement.

Multiple operations contribute to additional flexibility and long-term sustainability of
investment. The ongoing involvement of the Bank on the theme of transport efficiency
and sustainability allowed some flexibility between the Second Transport Project (STP)
and the Forest Product Transport Project (FPTP). CREMA contracts were successfully
tested and expanded through the STP. STP was completed before FPTP but some
contracts financed under that loan remained uncompleted at its closing. Given that the
resources of STP were exhausted at the closing, and given the impact of the economic
crisis, the existence of FPTP allowed the unfinished CREMA contracts to be transferred
to FPTP and the Bank team ensured during supervision that the road rehabilitation and
maintenance would focus on road corridors. Finally, the fact that the Bank is having
several operations on the topic of road maintenance supports the continuity of
investment, especially given the fiscal constraints faced by Government.

A multimodal transport project can maximize the development impact but requires
flexibility during supervision. The FPTP was designed to maximize development impact
by including investment in ports and railways, in addition to road rehabilitation and
maintenance. As explained earlier, the project's design was appropriate for Uruguay and
the inclusion of the railway component was not too ambitious, given the strong initial
Government support. However, a more simple road-only project would have also
contributed to the development objectives and would have been easier to implement as
there was no reform of the railways involved even if the economic evaluation showed



                                            28

that the rail plus road project had a higher ERR. As explained earlier, the changes during
supervision gave higher priority to road corridors, and given the decision not to
undertake the rail rehabilitation and concession, the team demonstrated flexibility by
allocating more funds to the road component. At the same time, it ensured that an
alternative reform would take place by engaging on the railway component with the
Borrower and maintaining pressure during supervision. This flexibility and strong
supervision allows changes to occur in the project's design in order to maximize the
impact on DO, given the different context from appraisal. Finally, as shown in the
analysis of the M&E system, a multimodal/logistics project should have broad outcome
indicators that measure the global output, and not just modal output. In the case of the
FPTP, the contribution of the road component not only leveraged the investment in the
public port of Fray Bentos, but also benefited private ports. The monitoring of total
exports of forest products from public and private port was a good indicator to measure
the overall contribution of the project to its development objectives.

Maintaining a strong policy dialogue during supervision can significantly support
reforms. This project gave another example of the difficulty of reforming railways, even
if all the possible support was assured during preparation. Railways reform meets with a
lot of resistance from the operating entity and requires decisive Government action to
overcome it. However, the Bank team showed that with limited funds it is possible to
support the improvement in efficiency, as showed in sections 3.2, 5 and Annex 4 and 5.
During supervision, the Bank team maintained the focus on the need to improve the
railways. When the GoU requested the re-allocation of funds, the Bank agreed but with
an initial one year extension instead of two due to the slow reform of the railways. The
decision to separate infrastructure from operations was also supported by a Bank's review
of the AFE study. Although the reform did not take place as initially planned, operating
subsidies per ton-km were reduced from 8 US cents in 2001 to 1.8 US cents in 2005.

The design of institutional arrangements and forms of private participation should be
adapted to the country's specificities. The concession of operation of forest products in
AFE did not occur despite the need to improve its efficiency and strong initial support.
AFE managed to improve its efficiency despite not implementing the proposed
concession and is currently investigating institutional arrangement that would allow
private participation with inclusion of capital and technical know-how, while maintaining
the company a public entity. Although privatized railways tend to be more efficiently run
than public ones, the resistance to the concession of AFE suggests that alternative models
of private participation might be easier to implement in countries like Uruguay even if
the level of efficiency is lower than those obtained in private concessions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower did not have any comment on the ICR


(b) Cofinanciers
JBIC did not have any comment on the ICR.




                                              29

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                          30

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


          Components             Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                   (USD millions)       (USD millions)      Appraisal
INFRASTRUCTURE AND
EQUIPMENT                                   124.90                 141.80        113.53

INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY
DEVELOPMENT                                    7.10                   0.20         2.82

             Total Baseline Cost            132.00                 142.00
Physical Contingencies                       10.20
Price Contingencies                            9.80
              Total Project Costs           152.00
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                   0.00         0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                   0.00         0.00
      Total Financing Required              152.00                 142.00



(b) Financing


                                          Appraisal        Actual/Latest
      Source of Funds        Type of                                       Percentage of
                            Financing  Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD
                                           millions)        millions)        Appraisal

 JAPAN: JEXIMBANK
(UNTIED FACILITY)                                30.00                28.00       93.33

 International Bank for
Reconstruction and                               76.00                71.00       93.42
Development




                                          31

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project's components and amounts were changed several times until closure. The
component description is as follows:
A. Infrastructure and Equipment

    · National forest roads rehabilitation and bridge reconditioning
    · Departmental Forest Road Rehabilitation Program
    · Crema Road Maintenance Contracts
    · Departmental Road Maintenance
    · Road Sector Management/Institutional Building
    · Rehabilitate AFE's track infrastructure and equipment
    · Build the pier extension at the Port of Fray Bentos

B. Institutional and Policy Development

    · Support the reorganizing of AFE and increase private participation in its operations and
       investments
    · Introduce if necessary a road-user charges system
    · Undertake a comprehensive study of the Uruguayan trucking industry
    · Prepare the economic, engineering and environmental analysis of civil works
    · Supervise works under the project

I. National forest roads rehabilitation and bridge reconditioning (PAD US$ 50,432,000;
actual US$ 89,278,962).
This component is rated highly satisfactory. In spite of budget reductions, 415 km of the
national road network, including parts of important forest products corridors, were
rehabilitated. This is about 100 km more than those included in the PAD, allowing to keep the
progressive deterioration of the road network in general and the national forest roads in
particular well under control. This was possible thanks to the re-allocation reductions from
other project components, mainly the railways component and the unallocated category of loan
funds. In addition, several bridges included in the Megaconcession were rehabilitated. The
quality of the bridge rehabilitation works was good as far as widening and structural
strengthening is concerned. The Table in the following page shows the roads and bridges
rehabilitated under the project, their final status and their final costs.

Routes 24 and 25, which are part of the Fray Bentos corridor between the cities of Guichon and
Young and the Port of Fray Bentos , were improved under the project. This corridor is very
competitive for trucks compared to rail given the short distances from the main plantations to
the port. Also routes 7 and 6 leading to Montevideo , included in the original project program,
were rehabilitated. The rehabilitation of all those routes is a significant contribution to establish
a healthy forestry sector. The rest of the works were included in the project following a
decision by the MTOP in support of the Megaconcession. Construction of these works started
in December 2002, and the program developed well since then until its end.

Part of the rehabilitated roads and bridges financed by the FPTP and showed in the Table



                                               32

below belong to the Megaconcession. It should be noted, however, that among the roads and
bridges financed under the Megaconcession program, Routes 2 and 11 are also part of the
corridor Fray Bentos-Montevideo and Route 3 is part of the corridor Montevideo-Port of
Paysandú, which are important roads for forestry development.

           Road and Bridge Rehabilitation Works
 Routes    Section                               Km.     Works           Final Cost
                                                 Length  Status          (US$)
 1. Forest Products Corridors Works
 7         Ruta 12 - Fray Marcos                 14.90   Completed       6,019,273
 7         San Jacinto - Ruta 12                 27.80   Completed       11,653,564
 24        Ruta 2 - Ruta 20 (N. Berlín)          21.80   Completed       6,876,744
 24        Ruta 20 - Ruta 25                     27.00   Completed       6,511,755
                                                         Being
 25        Ruta 24 ­ Young                       24.00   completed       7,025,000
 25        Menafra - Ruta 90                     19.30   Completed       3,893,243
 24        Ruta 25 - Ruta 3
           Subtotal Works                        134.80                  41,979,579

 2.Megaconcesion Works
 Roads
 21        234km - A° Las Vacas                  18.30   Completed       2,060,318
 2         Mercedes - Pte. Gral. San Martín      28.30   Completed       4,028,973
 3         472k 000 - Río Daymán                 13.89   Completed       3,754,800
 5         Sauce - 462k 000                      9.95    Completed       2,400,030
 8         Ao. Sarandí - Río Cebollatí           23.00   Completed       2,454,964
 9         San Carlos - Rocha                    37.50   Completed       3,849,088
 11        Santa Lucía Villa Rodriguez           11.07   Completed       3,315,771
           Acc. Norte Paso de los Toros -
 5         270K000                               43.78   Completed       6,026,421
                                                         Being
 11        Ecilda Paullier - Juan Soler          25.00   completed       3,314,000
                                                         Being
 11        San Jose - Villa Rodríguez            14.00   completed       2,978,000
                                                         Being
 3         Ruta 26 - acceso arroyo Guaviyú       26.70   completed       5,115,000
           Minas    (planta   urbana)   -  Aº            Being
 8         Marmarajá                             29.00   completed       3,640,000
 8         Rio Cebollati - Arroyo Piraraja               Postponed
 8         Aº Pirarajá - 235km100                        Postponed
           Total kms of roads                    280.49                  42,937,365
 Bridges



                                          33

 1          (P) Río Rosario                      puente    Completed            1,122,105
                                                           Being
 11         (P) Cda. Echeverría                  puente    completed            251,000
 11         (P) Ao. El Laurel                    puente    Completed            127,590
 6          (P) A° Sauce de Malbajar             puente    Completed            335,598
 5          (P) Arroyo Bañado de Rocha           puente    Postponed
 11         (P) A° Descarnado                    puente    Postponed
 11         (P) A° La Pedrera                    puente    Postponed
            Sub total Megaconcessions                                           44,773,658
            TOTAL                                                               86,753,237

II. Departmental Forest Road Rehabilitation Program (PAD US$ 5,542,000; actual US$
439,541). This component is rated marginally satisfactory, because the length of forest roads
rehabilitated is shorter that the one included in the PAD. Nevertheless, this reduction in
departmental forest roads rehabilitation was more than compensated by the substantial increase
in rehabilitation of national forest roads and maintenance of national and departmental roads.
The Table below shows the forest roads actually rehabilitated and maintained under this
subcomponent.



   Forest Road                Section               Km.       Works             Final Cost
   (Intendencia)              Starts at             Length    Status            (US$)
   Paso de la Cruz (I.
   Río Negro)                 Km 25.0 of Ruta 69 28.80        Completed         239,000
   Batoví (I. Rivera) plus Km 19.5 of Ruta 27 8.15            Completed
   Cementerio (Rivera)
   plus                       Km 29.5 of Ruta 27 6.15         Completed
   Tranqueras (Rivera)        Km 468 of Ruta 5      7.20      Completed         199,641
                              Total Works           50.30                       439,541


III. Crema Road Maintenance Contracts (PAD US$ 0; actual US$ 9,041,498).
This component is rated satisfactory and was transferred to this project after the closing of the
STP, which introduced this type of contract in Uruguay , but was unable to complete part of the
program by lack of financing, once the loan resources of that project were exhausted. These
contracts were being executed simultaneously to the implementation of the FPTP, when the
railway component implementation was lagging behind schedule and with very small
disbursements from the loan. Therefore, the MTOP requested to transfer the completion of the
CREMA contracts, which could not be completed under the STP, to the FPTP.

In the framework of the STP, 123 km of the primary road network were rehabilitated and 856
km maintained under CREMA contracts, which was more than 30% above the original project
target. In addition, DNV's further expanded this program and the Borrower was so satisfied
with the results that it asked the Bank to support a follow-on operation to assist in the
expansion of the program, which actually was approved in 2005 as the Transport Infrastructure


                                            34

Maintenance and Rural Access Project (TIMRA) and is already effective.

The STP demonstrated that the use of CREMA contracts allowed DNV to assure road
maintenance and rehabilitation in an effective and cost-efficient manner, despite the negative
economic environment. Nevertheless, as mentioned above, not the whole program could be
completed under that project, particularly some contracts originally included in that project,
such as the contracts for 240 km in Districts II and X. Therefore, the MTOP decided to transfer
those uncompleted CREMA contracts, comprising 240 km of primary roads, to the FPTP and
were successfully completed in the framework of this project. The average annual cost per km
for CREMA contracts, including rehabilitation and maintenance, was below US$ 10,000,
which compares favorably with average annual costs in other countries.

IV. Departmental Road Maintenance (PAD US$ 12,000,000; actual US$ 35,219,680).
This component is rated highly satisfactory. It consisted of a road maintenance program
directly financed by DNV and carried out through contracts with micro-enterprises constituted
by former DNV staff, or directly by DNV's staff through force account arrangements. It built
upon a departmental road maintenance program successfully carried out in the period from
1989 to 1996. It was resumed in 1997 with the support of this FPTP, and for the years 1998 to
2000 it was agreed, between the MTOP and the Bank, to provide also support for it under the
STP. This Bank's support will continue under the new TIMRA. Since it is an annual program
and the loan closing date was extended three years, the total amount allocated to this
component was well above the estimate in the PAD. The gap in cost as a consequence of these
extensions was financed with funds reallocated mainly from the railway component and the
unallocated category. The project target of having a DNV financed program of regravelling
yearly about 2,000 km and maintain about 9-10,000 km of departmental roads with micro-
enterprises and force account has been largely achieved.

Under the FPTP and STP a systematic and effective use of road planning and maintenance
management systems, combined with innovative management concepts and better data and
information collection was introduced. This allowed DNV to improve its efficiency in force
account maintenance. It also impacted on its productivity targets for the principal maintenance
activities that could be enhanced considerably.

Budget cuts during the economic crisis affected particularly the Intendencias that had delays in
the execution of their activities, but the majority of them reached or came very close to their
annual targets, despite the budget cuts.

V. Rehabilitate AFE's track infrastructure and equipment
This component is rated marginally satisfactory. In the railway sector, the project included
the rehabilitation of the railway network serving the forestry production areas in the north and
center of the country; mainly in the Departments of Durazno, Tacuarembó, and Rivera. These
consist of AFE's Montevideo­Rivera and Florida­Blanquillo railways. The Montevideo­Rivera
railway connects Montevideo to the country's largest forestry production areas (Tacuraembó
and Rivera). The Florida­Blanquillo railway connects to the Montevideo-Rivera railway,
crossing the Departments of Florida and Durazno. Given that it does not serve any major
population center, these lines primarily serve the forest products transport demand.



                                            35

In addition to the investments program, the project included the purchase of equipment for the
maintenance of rehabilitated sections, as a way to promote the mechanization of activities and
subsequent reduction in the labor force. Furthermore, the purchase of a modest quantity of
wagons was included within the Project, as a component not funded by the Bank. The Project
also included an institutional component (5% of the budget) consisting of technical assistance
for studies, supervision of works, and the reorganization and institutional strengthening of
AFE. In the railway sector, it was considered that the targeted investments, although necessary
to upgrade the railway infrastructure to cater for the expected forest demand, would not be
alone sufficient to stimulate the transfer of that demand to the system, since profound changes
in the quality of service were also necessary. So, there was a consensus that the railway model
had to be changed to inject more commercial orientation in rail operations.

The railway investment program had little progress until 2004 due to the stance assumed by the
Minister of Transport that no investments would be made in AFE without institutional reform.
Although the bids were prepared and issued and in some cases awarded, the Minister only
allowed two contracts for track-maintenance machines which were very important to keep the
railway operating. Furthermore,: (i) the acquisition of rails was delayed until 1998 due to the
GoU's decision not to purchase them with project resources, but to obtain them from Russia as
payment for a debt that this country had with Uruguay; (ii) Although the two track-
maintenance ( Plasser) machines were purchased with resources from the project, other
maintenance equipment was not acquired due to the Minister's decision to wait until there was
institutional reform, (iii) the purchase of second hand wagons was done by AFE' with its own
resources.

MTOP continued its stance that it was not advisable to involve any Loan resources in
infrastructure investments without a major reform of AFE. In order to achieve the desired
efficiency in the transportation of forest products, it was necessary to reorganize AFE and to
increase private participation in its management and operations, through a concession. The
Project included technical assistance and support in the process of reorganization of AFE all
throughout the implementation up to the start of the concession.

Once the separation of infrastructure and operations was completed, the Minister was ready to
invest in the rehabilitation of AFE, but at that time with the macroeconomic crisis he felt that it
was better to maintain the quality of the roads and seek private sector participation in a
CREMA type contract to rehabilitate the track. Therefore, the planned track rehabilitation of
the railway under the Forest Transport project has not been fully achieved due to longer than
expected delays in the implementation of sector reform and the financial crisis that affected the
government's fiscal space. Faced with budget restrictions, the GOU opted for investing its
scarce resources on the maintenance of roads, thus delaying railway rehabilitation.

In 2003, with he separation of infrastructure and operations, DNV became responsible in 2003
for the maintenance of railway infrastructure: railways, bridges, buildings, signage equipment,
and crossings, and their renovation. It operated with 353 agents distributed across the entire
active network. As it has been the case with road infrastructure, after assuming its new
responsibilities over the railway network, DNV sought to mobilize private investment in the



                                              36

rehabilitation and maintenance of key railway infrastructure.

As mentioned above, immediately after the reform was effective, the DNV called for bids for
the rehabilitation and maintenance of the Montevideo-Rivera, Sayago-Minas and Toledo-Río
Branco railway lines, including: (i) Metropolitan Area of Montevideo, 26 km; (ii) Railway line
to Rivera (km 12­km 563); (iii) Railway line to Río Branco (km 25­km 459); (iv) Railway line
to Minas (km 23­km 127). On these lines the rails would be changed on 530 km, making it
possible to operate at speeds of 50 km/h or 60 km/h, and with 18 tons by axis. The contract also
included the provision of 100,000 meters of rails for the DNV to undertake the rehabilitation of
the Chamberlain-Algorta-Paysandú-Salto and Algorta-Fray Bentos railway lines directly. In
addition, the contract included the following works to be carried out by the concessionaire: (i)
reconditioning of the electric signaling system in the Metropolitan Area; (ii) rehabilitation of
all crossings, including signage, fencing, and pavement, (iii) installation of new automatic
barriers and signals and rehabilitation of the existing ones along 1,114 km of rail lines; (iv)
construction of a central control facility to concentrate the operations of the three current posts;
(v) adapting the radio communications system to allow for a direct link to train crews and
providing the necessary computer equipment and software.

The contract was meant to be awarded to the bidder willing to accept the smallest annual
payment from the GOU for a period of twenty years starting on the second year of the
concession. The maximum payment that the GOU was willing to provide was set at US$ 5
million. According to the terms of the deal, the concessionaire would invest US$ 50 million
over the first four years of the concession and recover its investment with the proceeds from the
GOU payment and tolls charged to railway operators.

Two offers were received in March 2004 but later disqualified for various reasons. One offer
was ineligible for not complying with some conditions of the bid, while the other considered an
annual payment that widely exceeded the amount available to MTOP and also considered the
amortization of project debt in only ten years. The ICB 22/2003 was thus annulled, forcing
MTOP and the DNV to reexamine the short-term action plan.

Some works were not executed by AFE. The include (i) the track rehabilitation between km
382,952 and 393 Piedra al norte, (ii) track rehabilitation of the line Rivera between km 410 and
420,147 Valle Eden al Sur, (iii) Improvement of lines Rivera, Rio Branco, Artigas and R.
Piedra Sola and Fray Bentos, and (iv) rehabilitation of the line between km 208,789 and 219 Yi
al norte.
The final procurement plan for this component is as follows:
            Activity                                                   Total Amount
            Equipment for the maintenance of tracks and US$ 2.07 million
            works
            Equipment and Goods used by AFE (on wagon US$ 0.534 million
            rehabilitation and modernization)
            Works (Rehabilitation of line Rivera km 439,822 US$ 1.23 million
            to 444,742) and Rivera km 197-208
Source: AFE
Note: to the above, one should add US$ 16 million spent on acquisition of the Russian rails and acquisition of
second-hand wagons with GoU resources. In other words, the Bank loan share for the railway component was



                                                37

reduced but GoU bought most of the materials other than ballast and sleepers required for the rehabilitation of
track and equipment.

In summary, the resulted disbursement for the renovation of the railways reached US$ 2.03
million, consisting of US$ 0.66 million for rehabilitation works conducted by DNV
(representing about 15 km) and US$ 1.37 million for the purchase of goods for AFE and DNV.
With the exception of the Plasser machine, all goods were acquired between 2004 and 2005 by
DNV (for the tracks) and by AFE (for the track and components to modernize the wagons).

VI. Build the pier extension at the Port of Fray Bentos
This component is rated marginally satisfactory, due mainly to delays in the completion of
works. The Port of Fray Bentos was highly damaged by an accident caused by a freighter
which, pushed by strong winds, hit the main piles of the quay. The Ministry requested the
inclusion of the rehabilitation of the port in the loan under an accelerated procurement which
the Bank authorized. The Bank also approved the paving of quays 1 and 2 of the port of the
port of Montevideo but because the price was high and there was only one bidder, the Bank did
not give the "no objection". Subsequently, ANP reissue the bids and obtained a good price and
decided to finance the works with its own budget. The bid for the reconstruction of Fray Bentos
was awarded and the reconstruction works are almost completed.

The bid for the extension was issued but the Government adopted a "wait-and-see" position
because the private sector was building a new port, just above Fray Bentos. The Government
believed that there would not be a need for the full extension originally envisaged and a great
quantity of the wood production would go to the new port of M'bopicua . However, the
decision to allocate the contract was made following the change in Government and the latest
extension allowed the disbursement of part of the money allocated to this component. The
construction of the pier extension has started and is expected to be completed by the end of the
year 2006. During the last supervision mission, the Bank team was told by producers of chips
that additional investment could leverage further the investment to be fully used: (i) dredging
of the river to allow full load ships (currently ships need to be topped off in Montevideo) to
navigate from Fray Bentos and (ii) installation of a light system on the river to allow ships to
navigate at night.

The project also allowed the Port of Fray Bentos to continue operating, following an accident
caused by a freighter, which led to an interruption of operations. This support, while the GoU
sought damages from the shipping line insurance, allowed a quick rehabilitation of Fray Bentos
to continue operating and supported the increase in export from Fray Bentos. Once it received
the insurance payments the amount spent on the rehabilitation was returned to the loan.

As the works for the pier extension are still being completed, it is too early to assess the impact
of this component on export but the recent boom in exports from the Fray Bentos area (incl.
M'Bopicua) suggests that the pier extension would allow the public port of Fray Bentos to
support the export of forest products.

VII. Support the reorganizing of AFE and increase private participation in its operations
and investments
This component initially concerned the preparation of bid documents to be used in the


                                               38

concession process: (i) institutional and organizational arrangements, (ii) investment plan to be
undertaken, (iii) evaluation of operating subsidies, and (iv) legal and administrative aspects for
concession. It also included technical assistance until the concession, in the form of providing
key advisors who worked with the Ministry of Transport and President of AFE to further
rationalize and streamline operations and maintenance to decrease the perceived risks of the
concession.

This component is rated satisfactory. Even if the concessioning of AFE did not succeed, the
technical assistant component of the loan provided adequate support to have allowed for
successful completion of the reform. As explained earlier in the main document of the ICR, the
failure of the concessioning of AFE was mainly due to a lack of political willingness and
ability to find an agreement on the type of reform needed. The document and technical advice
financed by this component were completed but it is difficult to assess the quality of the bid
documents was very good, based on the Argentine and Brazilian experiences.

The GoU introduced a declaration in the National Budget Law of January 1996 giving
authorization to AFE, with previous approval from the Executive, to grant concessions for the
execution of works and delivery of railway services, as a way of attracting private investment.
For this purpose, in 1997 AFE summoned the private sector to present expressions of interest
on the concession of the forest products transport railways     Montevideo-Rivera and Florida-
Blanquillo). Six consortiums presented their proposals, and three were selected to participate in
the consultation stage.

The selected groups were comprised of railway enterprises that operated in Argentina , Brazil
and Chile . This was intended to assess the market's reaction to the proposed strategy, and to
obtain feedback from potential participants on the options available for enhancing the
concession model. Although only three consortiums were given access to the consultation
stage, other companies that had not participated in the initial call for proposals or that
participated but were not pre selected, could still enter the bid and compete under the same
conditions as the pre-selected consortiums.

According to the bidding document, only the concessionaire would have rights to the transport
of forest products, machinery, materials or resources for forest activity on the two indicated rail
lines. The concessionaire's rights extended to transporting these products to their destination if
such were outside the lines Montevideo ­ Rivera and Florida ­ Blanquillo. AFE was to be in
charge of the rest of the traffic along these lines. The concessionaire would have been allowed
to reach an agreement with AFE to carry out such transport on the lines that are not under
concession, and to undertake, under commission of AFE, the transportation of non-forest
products on the lines of the concession. Traffic control would remain in hands of AFE. If the
concessionaire became the main user, it would be his responsibility to take charge of the
maintenance of the railways.        AFE would assume responsibility for the rehabilitation of
various sectors of the lines given in concession. Toll payment to AFE was established, by the
use of granted network.

Although bidding documents were completed, and the market showed high interest,
MTOP/AFE never launched the bid. This was attributed to AFE's little interest in granting the



                                              39

right of operation to a company that would potentially be its competitor, as well as to a certain
lack of confidence by the MOPT on whether the chosen system of concession would be the
best. Furthermore, the GoU could foresee that a concession that would give exclusive rights to
a certain mode of transport could be perceived as a monopoly (despite the existence of
competition from road transport) would encounter strong political opposition at the time of
elections.

Since then, several institutional changes occurred, resulting in separation of infrastructure from
operation and later a return to the initial integrated model. The new administration is now
considering a different option for reforming AFE in order to increase further efficiency through
private participation and a more commercial focus. The financial performance of AFE,
although still below most of its neighbors in Latin America , has improved a lot since 1997.

Although this component did not result directly in the concession of AFE, it did provide the
organization with the tools to move forward. Moreover, the ongoing policy dialogue and
support with limited funds provided during supervision helped raise awareness in AFE and the
Ministry of Transport to the need to improve rail efficiency to support the export of forest
products.

VIII. Road Sector Management/Institutional Building (PAD US$8,000,000; actual
US$160,584). This component consisted of several sub-components that were mainly
implemented with financing from other sources.           Only a few of those subcomponents
correspond to the road sector and are globally rated as satisfactory, even if most of them were
financed by grants (PHRD, TDA).

a) Study of a road user charges system
This study was intended to address the entire transport sector to establish a system that reflects
the actual costs incurred by each mode. Under the STP, the MTOP's Institute for Transport and
Infrastructure Planning (IPTI), updated its databases and carried out several estimates of user
charges, using the road user charge model (RUC), developed by the Bank in 1998. The most
recent calculations of road user charges are based on 2001 figures and showed that the total
expenses in the sector, including investments and debt service, amounted to US$ 466,160,000
and that the fiscal revenues from road users reached US$ 607,850,000, which gives excess
revenues from road users of US$ 141,660,000. No other studies in this matter were carried out
under the FPTP and therefore, no project resources were used for these activities.

b) Undertake a comprehensive study of the Uruguayan trucking industry
This study was done in-house by the IPTI and the actual output during the project life was a
series of decrees of the MTOP regulating the trucking transport, among them one establishing
rules to control truck overloading, control and enforcement of which was contracted with a
private firm, which reports to the DNV and the National Directorate of Transport (DNT).


c) Prepare the economic, engineering and environmental analysis of civil works
These studies were carried out in combination with the STP, but were also prepared in-house
with no significant external help and therefore, no project resources were used for this



                                            40

subcomponent. Consultants were hired to prepare road, rail and port environmental manuals.

d) Surpervise works under the project
Most of the monitoring work was done by DNV in-house, with the support of a few technical
advisors, in particular two international experts on pavement performance and performance
contracts respectively. These advisors were hired by DNV with its own resources to guide its
staff. DNV's control and supervision arrangement, supported by this Advisory Committee,
proved very successful because it set high standards for the measurement of results on the
ground and achieved effective contract enforcement. In addition, carrying out this task in-house
increased the ownership within the organization. However, as in the case of the STP with
similar arrangements, it has to be emphasized that it was the well-established reputation for
high integrity within DNV that was instrumental for the success of this kind of monitoring and
supervision arrangement.

So, in short, although most institutional building and studies were done, they used very few
resources from the loan, which allowed their transfer to the road component.




                                           41

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The ex-ante economic evaluation for this project was done only for the road component as almost the
totality of the loan funds (95%) were allocated to road works following the various changes in
allocation. Also, in the original project, the financial rate of return was resulting essentially from the
rail component, and is not applicable in the case of a road rehabilitation component (which account
for the quasi-totality of the loan at project closure) because almost no investment was undertaken in
the rail component. The reduction of the subsidies to AFE by 60% from US$ 17 million in 1997 to
US$ 6.6 million in 2005 was however a significant financial gain for the Government.

Moreover, the ex-post economic rate of return should be compared to scenario 1, evaluated during
project's preparation. The ex-ante economic evaluation for the project distinguished two scenarios: (i)
the truck only scenario (S1) included investments in routes 6 and 7 leading to Montevideo, in
addition to investments in the port of Fray Bentos, and (ii) the rail plus truck scenario (S2) included
all the investment in S1 and, in addition, rail investment in the Montevideo-Rivera and Florida-
Banquillo lines. The two scenarios (S1 and S2) were compared to a do-nothing situation (S0). In
reality the latest allocation looks closer to S1 than S2 but cannot be compared strictly to S1, due to
additional road rehabilitation that took place. It must be noted that both scenarios 1 and 2 were both
considered economically feasible in the PAD but that S2 was selected as the scenario resulting in the
highest economic NPV.

As the majority of investment resulted in the rehabilitation of roads, the financial analysis and the
fiscal impact were not applicable anymore and thus not calculated ex-post. The initial PAD included
the results of the financial analysis and fiscal impact. The ex-ante financial analysis resulted in an
NPV of US$ 941 million (with a discount rate of 10%) or an IRR of 55%. The fiscal impact of the
project was estimated in the PAD at US$ 23.5 million in additional taxes and US$ 35.3 in savings in
subsidies following the successful implementation of the project. However, the project had a fiscal
benefit to GoU. The ex-post review of AFE financial performance showed that GoU managed to
reduce its yearly subsidies by 60% between 1997 and 2005, which is a significant achievement.

Although the ex-post Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Economic Net Present Value (NPV) are
lower than the one calculated in the ex-ante, the ERR is still reasonably high. The ex-ante for
Scenario 1 calculated an ERR and NPV at 10% of respectively 63% and $US 480 million. The ex-
post economic evaluation of the project resulted in an ERR of 23.96%, with an NPV of $US 24.9
million, based on an investment of $US 64.3 million. The difference in NPV comes from the fact that
the benefits were not as big as initially anticipated, following the impact of the economic crisis, and
occurred later in the life of the project.




Road Component



                                              42

This component consisted in the rehabilitation of 296,000 km of roads, corresponding to the
following:

          Road        Description                                      Length (km)
          7           Ruta 12 - Fray Marcos                            16.0
          7           San Jacinto - Ruta 12                            24.0
          24          Ruta 2 - Ruta 20 (N. Berlin )                    21.6
          24          Ruta 20 - 43 km                                  21.4
          25          Menafra - Ruta 90                                20.4
          Access      Port Boulevard (double lane)                     0.95
          21          234 k - A Las Vacas                              18.4
          2           Mercedes - Pte Gral. San Martin                  28.3
          3           472k 000 - Rio Dyaman                            15.0
          5           Sauce - 462k 000                                 11.2
          8           Ao. Sarandi - Rio Cebollati                      23.4
          9           149k000 - Emp. Caracol Las Garzas                37.3
          11          Santa Lucia - Villa Rodriguez                    13.1
          5           225k000 - 270K000                                45.0
                      Total                                            296.0

The physical location of the various rehabilitation works is represented on the map below:




The highway network included in the rehabilitation component of the project belong to a key zone,
influencing the forest road network and the export corridors, which attract a significant share of the
movement of goods, demonstrating the fundamental importance of the regional road network for the
national economy.


                                            43

The cost related to the movement of people and goods is closely linked to the state of the road
infrastructure, thus to the preservation effort that takes place on the network.

Model used and main assumption
This economic analysis was prepared using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
(HDM-III), which simulates life cycle conditions and costs and provides economic decision criteria.
The ICR ex-post economic evaluation was done using the same model and following the same ex-
ante methodology, but including (i) actual costs, (ii) actual traffic, (iii) actual road user costs, and (iv)
actual timing and duration of road works.

The project benefits are derived from operating cost savings for vehicles, time savings during the
trip, maintenance and savings due to a reduction of accidents.

Operating Costs figures were obtained from the model HDM III and are functions of the type and
state of the surface, the geometric design and vehicles characteristics
The Vehicle's operating costs are composed of:
    · Travel Costs: fuel, oil, tires, upgrade and maintenance labor costs
    · Annual Fixed Costs: depreciation, interests, labor and administration

These costs are calculated for the various types of vehicles corresponding to each year's traffic. The
benefits come from the reduction of the project's operating costs compared to the base scenario.

The economic price was calculated from the financial prices by multiplying the latter by a conversion
factor (CF or RPC). The financial cost was obtained from the computerized system of prices and
budgets of DNV, with the physical quantities used in the various works.

Investment Cost Analysis
In several of the works, the real cost ended up beinglower than the estimated one and the total ended
up at US$ 64.3 million or 96% of the estimated amount, despite the impact of inflation following the
subsequent loan extensions.




                                              44

                                            AñoEstimado MontoEstimado MontoContrato AñoReal M.Fin.Contratado
 Ruta            Descripción       Long.(Km)  Obra       (MilesU$S)    (MilesU$S)    Obra     (MilesU$S)
     7 Ruta12-FrayMarcos              16.0         1997          3,122        5,021    1,998          6,019
     7 SanJacinto-Ruta12              24.0         1997          6,569       10,418    1,999        11,654
     24 Ruta2-Ruta20(N.Berlín)        21.6         1998          6,387        6,910    1,999          6,877
     24 Ruta20-43km                   21.4         1999          7,744        6,942    2,000          6,512
     25 Menafra-Ruta90                20.4         2000          4,696        3,529    2,001          3,893
Accesos RamblaPortuaria(DobleVia)     0.95         1999          1,958        1,711    1,999          1,450
     21234km-A°LasVacas               18.4         2,002         2,200        2,700    2,004          2,060
     2Mercedes-Pte.Gral.SanMartín     28.3         2,002         4,415        4,615    2,003          4,029
     3472k000-RíoDaymán               15.0         2,002         4,458        4,458    2,003          3,755
     5Sauce-462k000                   11.2         2,002         3,929        2,961    2,003          2,400
     8Ao.Sarandí-RíoCebollatí         23.4         2,002         3,524        2,626    2,003          2,455
     9149k000-Emp.CaracolLasGarzas    37.3         2,002         6,230        4,478    2,003          3,849
     11SantaLucía-VillaRodriguez      13.1         2,002         4,375        3,665    2,003          3,316
     5225k000-270K000                 45.0         2,002         7,250        5,558    2,004          6,026
                    Total            296.0                      66,857       65,592                 64,295


State of the roads
The information was obtained from the DNV's road inventory, which is based on the permanent
collection of information by the Department of Conservation. The inventory provides updated
information on the physical characteristics of the network, such as location, type of road, existence of
bridges, etc...

The quality of movement and operating cost of vehicles on a highway depends on the surface quality
of the road and characterized by its rugosity and measured by the International Roughness Index or
IRI. DNV also uses an index measuring the state of the surface (Indice de Estado Superficial, or IES)
which summarizes also the condition of the road surface.

As illustrated in the table below showing the IRI for each section rehabilitated, the IRI and IES
measured in 2004 are comparable to those initially forecasted.




                                             45

                                                     Antes - Obra Ind. Rug(IRI) Ind. Rug(IRI)    Ind. Est.
  Ruta               Descripción          Long.(Km) Ind. Rug(IRI) Estimado2004          2,004         2,004
       7 Ruta12- FrayMarcos                    16.0           6.2         2.30           2.13         83.00
       7 SanJacinto- Ruta12                    24.0           6.1         2.00           1.99         89.00
      24 Ruta2- Ruta20(N. Berlín)              21.6           5.2         2.00           1.94         92.00
      24 Ruta20- 43km                          21.4           5.2         2.40           2.20         80.00
      25 Menafra- Ruta90                       20.4           5.5         2.14           1.85         98.00
Accesos RamblaPortuaria(DobleVia)               0.95          8.1         3.50           3.20         94.00
      21 234km- A° Las Vacas                   18.4           5.2         1.80           1.80        100.00
       2 Mercedes - Pte. Gral. SanMartín       28.3           3.2         1.90           1.80        100.00
       3 472k 000- RíoDaymán                   15.0           4.8         2.00           2.08        100.00
       5 Sauce- 462k 000                       11.2           4.5         1.90           1.99         91.00
       8 Ao. Sarandí - RíoCebollatí            23.4           4.2         1.90           1.96        100.00
       9 149k000- Emp. Caracol Las Garzas      37.3           3.1         1.90           1.98        100.00
      11 SantaLucía- VillaRodriguez            13.1           5.5         1.90           2.00        100.00
       5 225k000- 270K000                      45.0           5.3         1.90           1.80        100.00
                         Total                296.0


Traffic Analysis
The traffic count was based on average daily traffic figures provided by the Department of Traffic
Security.

It was assumed that traffic was composed of 30% of freight vehicles. From this group, 3 types of
trucks: light were identified: light, articulated (used for the transportation of forest products) and
heavy. It was assumed that traffic would increase from 3% to 5% for light vehicles and from 6% to
10% for heavy vehicles during the productive period and would thereafter stabilize at 3% for all
vehicles. This growth in traffic was based on the average GDP growth in Uruguay during the last 10
years.

The following table compares the ex-post and ex-ante traffic, together with the real ex-post increase
in traffic, differentiated by type of vehicles. As illustrated, the increase in traffic until the inflection
point (corresponding to the major increase in traffic) is higher for light trucks on most rehabilitated
section. In the case of heavy trucks (transporting non-forest products), the rates of increase were
negative on some section, due to the conversion of the truck fleet into articulated ones for the
transportation of forest products.




                                             46

                                                                                      TasacrecimientoEx-Ante
                                        Tpda TasaExpost TasaExpost TasaExpost      HastaPunto         LuegoPunto     Tpda
 Ruta            Descripción             2,004 Livianos C.Articulado C.Pesados       Inflección        Inflección  AñoInicial
     7 Ruta12-FrayMarcos                 1,066       16%         41%        -6%s/d                 s/d                   500
     7 SanJacinto-Ruta12                 1,733       10%         21%        1%s/d                  s/d                   995
    24 Ruta2-Ruta20(N.Berlín)              922        4%         13%        6%5%liv-3a30%pes       5%liv-3%Pes           635
    24 Ruta20-43km                         922       18%         20%        10%5%liv-3a28%pes      5%liv-3,5%Pes         300
    25 Menafra-Ruta90                      602       11%          9%        -5%5%liv-3a30%pes      5%liv-2a3%Pes         342
Accesos RamblaPortuaria(DobleVia)       17,993        6%         21%       11%s/d                  s/d                10,961
    21234km-A°LasVacas                     780        8%          2%        -1%3%liv-6%pes                       3%      652
     2Mercedes-Pte.Gral.SanMartín        2,049      -10%         11%        -9%4%liv-5a6%pes                     3%    2,643
     3472k000-RíoDaymán                  1,024        0%          2%        -1%4%liv-5a8%pes                     3%    1,026
     5Sauce-462k000                      1,106        3%         57%       -16%3%liv-6a10%pes                    3%    1,103
     8Ao.Sarandí-RíoCebollatí              781       12%        -16%        -7%4%liv-6a9%pes                     3%      717
     9149k000-Emp.CaracolLasGarzas       1,879        5%        -12%       -11%4%liv-5a6%pes                     3%    1,775
    11SantaLucía-VillaRodriguez          2,390        3%          4%        3%4%livypesados                      4%    2,178
     5225k000-270K000                    1,092        6%          9%        15%3%liv-6a14%pes                    3%      855


Savings to users

Following is a description of operating costs per type of vehicles in US$ by vehicle-km during one
year, comparing the costs a year before the execution of work to a year after completion of works.


Operating Costs: 1 year before execution of works

                                            Antes - Obra costo de operación economico veh -km - inicial
 Ruta                 Descripción           Ind. Rug (IRI)Cat1-LivianosCat2-Omnibus Cat3- C.Med.Cat4-C.SPes Cat5-C.Artic.
       7 Ruta 12 - Fray Marcos                       6.2 0.25012349      0.744520039 0.46283318 0.58923113 0.71945713
       7 San Jacinto - Ruta 12                       6.1 0.24904008      0.742353217 0.46124418 0.58742544 0.71714585
     24 Ruta 2 - Ruta 20 (N. Berlín)                 5.2 0.23928938      0.722851819 0.44694315 0.57117428 0.69634436
     24 Ruta 20 - 43km                               5.2 0.23928938      0.722851819 0.44694315 0.57117428 0.69634436
     25 Menafra - Ruta 90                            5.5 0.24253961      0.729352285 0.45171016 0.57659133 0.70327819
Accesos Rambla Portuaria (Doble Via)                 8.1   0.2707083     0.785689657 0.49302423 0.62353914 0.76337139
     21 234km - A° Las Vacas                         5.2 0.23928938      0.722851819 0.44694315 0.57117428 0.69634436
       2 Mercedes - Pte. Gral. San Martín            3.2 0.21993243       0.68782153 0.41588537 0.53549394 0.65423579
       3 472k 000 - Río Daymán                       4.8 0.23473905      0.714401213 0.44058714 0.56395154 0.68709926
       5 Sauce - 462k 000                            4.5 0.23184995      0.708767476 0.43589236 0.55860671 0.68038211
       8 Ao. Sarandí - Río Cebollatí                 4.2 0.22888863      0.703494876 0.43126981 0.55326188 0.67395387
       9 149k000 - Emp. Caracol Las Garzas           3.1 0.21913793      0.686376982 0.41436859 0.53368826 0.65235788
     11 Santa Lucía - Villa Rodriguez                5.5 0.24253961      0.729352285 0.45171016 0.57659133 0.70327819
       5 225k000 - 270K000                           5.3 0.24037279      0.725018641 0.44853215 0.57297996 0.69865564



Operating Costs: 1 year after completion of works




                                                     47

                                        Luego-Obracostodeoperacióneconomicoveh-kmluegodelaobra
 Ruta               Descripción        Ind.Rug(IRI)Cat1-LivianosCat2-OmnibusCat3-C.Med. Cat4-C.SPes Cat5-C.Artic.
      7 Ruta12-FrayMarcos                      1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
      7 SanJacinto-Ruta12                      1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
    24 Ruta2-Ruta20(N.Berlín)                  1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
    24 Ruta20-43km                             1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
    25 Menafra-Ruta90                          1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
Accesos RamblaPortuaria(DobleVia)              2.6 0.21523765 0.67958761 0.40656803 0.52458761 0.64304054
    21234km-A°LasVacas                         1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
      2Mercedes-Pte.Gral.SanMartín             1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
      3472k000-RíoDaymán                       1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
      5Sauce-462k000                           1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
      8Ao.Sarandí-RíoCebollatí                 1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
      9149k000-Emp.CaracolLasGarzas            1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
    11SantaLucía-VillaRodriguez                1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724
      5225k000-270K000                         1.8 0.20945946 0.66969245 0.39363933 0.50956431 0.62801724


Reduction in Operating Costs in % for each vehicles in the year following completion of works

                                            Disminucióndel costodeoperacióneconomicoveh-km
  Ruta                Descripción           Cat1-LivianosCat2-OmnibusCat3- C.Med. Cat4-C.SPes Cat5-C.Artic.
      7 Ruta12- FrayMarcos                          16%          10%           15%           14%           13%
      7 SanJacinto- Ruta12                          16%          10%           15%           13%           12%
     24 Ruta2- Ruta20(N. Berlín)                    12%            7%          12%           11%           10%
     24 Ruta20- 43km                                12%            7%          12%           11%           10%
     25 Menafra- Ruta90                             14%            8%          13%           12%           11%
Accesos RamblaPortuaria(DobleVia)                   20%          14%           18%           16%           16%
     21 234km- A°LasVacas                           12%            7%          12%           11%           10%
      2 Mercedes- Pte. Gral. SanMartín               5%            3%            5%            5%          4%
      3 472k000- RíoDaymán                          11%            6%          11%           10%           9%
      5 Sauce- 462k000                              10%            6%          10%            9%           8%
      8 Ao. Sarandí - RíoCebollatí                   8%            5%            9%            8%          7%
      9 149k000- Emp. Caracol LasGarzas              4%            2%            5%            5%          4%
     11 SantaLucía- VillaRodriguez                  14%            8%          13%           12%           11%
      5 225k000- 270K000                            13%            8%          12%           11%           10%

As shown in the table above, there was a reduction in the vehicle operating costs, ranging from 3% to
20%, depending on the type of vehicle and road rehabilitated.

Economic Analysis
The economic analysis was performed on all sections described earlier and the ERR and IRR were
calculated. The result indicated an Economic NPV of US$ 24.9 million and ERR of 24%. As said
before, it is difficult to compare the actual ERR to the one assessed in the PAD.




                                              48

                                                          M. Fin. Contratado Van (Miles U$S)  Tir (%)
  Ruta                Descripción               Long.(Km)     (Miles U$S)        Expost       Expost
        7 Ruta 12 - Fray Marcos                     16.0               6,019          1,460   15.50%
        7 San Jacinto - Ruta 12                     24.0              11,654          5,480   19.80%
       24 Ruta 2 - Ruta 20 (N. Berlín)              21.6               6,877            710   13.90%
       24 Ruta 20 - 43km                            21.4               6,512            360   13.30%
       25 Menafra - Ruta 90                         20.4               3,893            230   13.70%
Accesos Rambla Portuaria (Doble Via)                0.95               1,450            590   20.10%
       21 234km - A° Las Vacas                      18.4               2,060            180   18.90%
        2 Mercedes - Pte. Gral. San Martín          28.3               4,029          2,390   30.70%
        3 472k 000 - Río Daymán                     15.0               3,755          2,390   27.70%
        5 Sauce - 462k 000                          11.2               2,400          1,610   27.60%
        8 Ao. Sarandí - Río Cebollatí               23.4               2,455          1,600   30.70%
        9 149k000 - Emp. Caracol Las Garzas         37.3               3,849          4,410   39.40%
       11 Santa Lucía - Villa Rodriguez             13.1               3,316            820   31.00%
        5 225k000 - 270K000                         45.0               6,026          2,650   33.20%
                           Total                   296.0             64,295          24,880   23.96%


Overview of the Efficiency of the Railways
The Railway System

The Uruguayan Railway system has an extension of 2,993 Km and a total of 41 train stations. The
railway network is a standard gauge of 1.435 meters, single track, except for 11 Km of double track
near Montevideo Central Station. The system is operated by Administración de los Ferrocarriles del
Estado (AFE), a state-owned company.



                                 Table 1: Rail Network, 2002
                                 Double Track              11 Km.
                                 Single Track              2,982 Km.
                                 Total Extension           2993 Km.
                                 Gauge                     1.435 Mts.
                                 Number of Stations        41
                                 Source: AFE, Annual Report 2003


The system connects to the Ferrocarril Mesopotámico (FCM) freight railway in Argentina, which in
turns connects to the Presidente Carlos Antonio López Railway in Paraguay (both these railways are
also standard gauge). It also connects with the meter gauge RFFSA railway of Brazil, at Rivera and
Rio Branco.. However RFFSA has discontinued the line to the Uruguayan border at Rio Branco, and
only the Rivera Santa Ana connection is in operation.

Most railway lines in Uruguay were built at the lowest possible cost with minimum earthworks,
leading to frequent short (1.5 - 2 percent) gradients and numerous curves and reserve curves that
cause high operating costs. The permissible axle load is 18 tons except on lines close to the Uruguay
and La Plata rivers, where tracks and bridges were built to 14 tons axle load standards.

Despite the improvement of some sections in 1998, overall the network is in a very poor condition.
The majority of wooden sleepers are either defective or completely rotten; rails are worn out and


                                              49

crippled at the ends; and ballasting, when it exists, is inadequate and thoroughly polluted. Speeds are
kept low due to safety concerns and tracks are not adequately maintained, which both result in higher
operational costs for AFE.

Operating Performance and Productivity

The number of passengers per train has continued to decrease as a result of the reduction in the
number of services. On the other hand, in the period between 1995 and 2002, the productivity of
freight operations has increased, as evidenced by the number of tons mobilized per employee.
However, in the latest years, improvements in this indicator have had more to do with important
cutbacks in AFE's workforce, than with increases in freight traffic. In addition, during the same
period, there has been a reduction in the number of derailments, which can be attributed to the
rehabilitation of some sections of the network after 1997. Nonetheless, the number of derailments
continues to be high, considering that in 1985 there were only 25 derailments on the open track.


Table 7: Uruguay Railway Operations Performance Indicators
                                           1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Average cargo per train (Tons)             251      246       248        290     291    290    303 294 362
Average passengers per train                                  62         65      45     42     59  41  66
Derailments per million tons               66       60        48         40      42     45     41  43  33
Tons per employee                          413      477       617        803     853    788    727 505 1593
Source: AFE


Financial Performance

The financial performance of the railways has improved since 1997. The operating ratio (operating
expenses over operating revenues) has decreased significantly, especially since 2003. Before the
separation of infrastructure from operation, this indicator was in the range of 4 and the minimum of
3.4 in 1999, was achieved thanks to a high level of freight transportation. The situation changed in
2003, when the operating ratio decrease to 2.8 and has continuously improved since then to achieve 2
in 2005. This major improvement in operating performance is mainly due to a reduction of labor
cost, following the decision to reduce the number of employees following the separation of
infrastructure from railways operation. This effort was financed through the sales of land.



                                              AFE Operating Ratio (1997-2005)


                           6.0

                                4.8
                           5.0

                                                    4.1               4.2
                                       3.9                   4.0
                           4.0
                                             3.4

                           3.0                                                2.8

                                                                                    2.0    2.0
                           2.0


                           1.0


                           0.0
                                1997  1998   1999  2000     2001     2002    2003   2004  2005


                                                     Source: AFE




                                                 50

The subsidies paid to AFE do not correspond exactly to the operating results but were reduced
significantly since 1997. Some year, subsidies were more than the negative operating result and
others lower. While the subsidies provided to AFE reduced since the separation of infrastructure
from operations, the amount must be added to the investment made by DNV, which took over the
responsibility for the infrastructure. Even in this case, the total subsidies were reduced in 2005 to
one-third of the value in 1997. Finally, subsidies also decreased significantly when measured as per
tons-km of transported freight. In this case the value decreased from US$ 0.075 in 1997 to US$
0.018 in 2005.


                                                         Operating Results and Subsidies


                                      30,000

                                      25,000

                                      20,000

                                000
                                   $SU15,000

                                      10,000

                                       5,000

                                          0
                                              1997   1998   1999     2000      2001    2002       2003    2004   2005


                                                          Operating Results (Negative) Operating Subsidies


                                                        Operating Subsidies per tons-km


                                      0.090
                                                                              0.080
                                      0.080  0.075                  0.074

                                      0.070

                                                           0.058                       0.058
                                      0.060         0.055


                             $        0.050
                                                                                                 0.041
                              US
                                      0.040


                                      0.030
                                                                                                          0.020
                                                                                                                 0.018
                                      0.020


                                      0.010


                                      0.000
                                             1997   1998   1999     2000      2001     2002      2003     2004   2005


                                                                  Source: AFE


The decrease of subsidies was significant since the reform and has shown a constant improvement
since then. Financial indicators show an improvement in the efficiency of AFE, although still not
profitable. There are additional opportunities for improving the financial performance of AFE. One
option could be the increase further tariffs. This was already done in 2006, without major impact on
demand and it would certainly improve further the financial performance of AFE in 2006. The other
possibility would be to reduce operating costs, which could be achieved through further
rehabilitation of infrastructure and institutional reforms. The increase in tons-km of wood products
transported could also increase and the potential to support the development of wood processing
industry being developed in the littoral should be further investigated.




                                                             51

Railway sector performance in the international perspective

Rail transport in Uruguay is still not as competitive as in other countries where private sector
participation reforms have been adopted. Cargo traffic density (Ton-Km/ Network in service) is the
lowest among the railway operations analyzed, even below that of ALL-M, which operates a similar
network. The productivity of the National Railway Administration's (AFE) operations is lower than
that of private rail operators in other Latin American countries


     Railway cargo traffic and productivity, 2003

                                              Average     Ton-Km    per            perTon-Km per
     Country      Operator Ton-Km           distance of Km           ofTon-Km
                                            cargo traffic operational  locomotive inwagon        in

                                               (Km)       railway      service        service

                  FEPSA     1,155,356,000       409            451,311        76,351      525,162
                  NCA       3,714,074,000       460            928,519        93,973      993,599
     Argentina    FSR       1,644,333,000       377            620,503        99,151      719,306
                  ALL C     2,728,288,000       854            667,063        52,400      519,081
                  ALL M     778,783,000         635            370,849        49,046      350,330
     Bolivia      FCO       681,762,000         213            548,040        68,512      513,566
     Uruguay      AFE       266,555,658         605            114,387        36,711      166,899
     Source: Martinez (2004)

Railway productivity has improved as a result of the reform but remain lower than in comparable
countries. In 2001, AFE's labor productivity was very low compared to other operators in Argentina,
Bolivia, Brazil, and Mexico. In 2003, AFE reported a significant improvement in labor productivity,
as the number of tons carried per employee increased from 505 to 1,593. This was the outcome of the
separation between railway management and operations, which resulted in a large transfer of AFE's
employees to the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP).

Port Overview and Efficiency
The improvement of the port efficiency was not a direct effect of the project and it would not make
sense to monitor the improvement of efficiency of the Port of Fray Bentos and ANP. The investment
in the pier extension of the port of Fray Bentos has just taken place and it's not possible to determine
its impact on the volume of forest products transported and financial performance of the public port.
However, the project allowed the port of Fray Bentos to continue operating following an accident.
This directly contributed to the overall performance of Fray Bentos, as the port had to cease
operating following the accident.

Moreover, the project did indirectly contribute to the development of the export of forest products
from Uruguayan ports, thus contributed to the improvement of ANP's financial viability. The
development of private ports did also benefit from an improved road network, in addition to
Government initiatives to increase private participation in ports.

Exports from all Uruguayan ports have increased exponentially, from 558,673 tons in 1997 to
2,123,139 in 2005 (or an increase of 280%). Montevideo remains the main port for export of forest
products with a share of 57% of all exports of forest products, but other ports such as Nueva Palmira


                                              52

and M'Bopicua are increasing in importance and representing respectively 15% and 10% of total
export of forest products in 2005.


                                                                   Share of Forest Products Exported from Port of
                                                                                      Montevideo


                                      )                    45%                                                     40%    40%
                                       (%trop              40%
                                                           35%
                                                           30%                                       27.8%  26.7%
                                             ex                                                 25%
                                                                                        22.4%
                                               alt         25%
                                                                                 17%
                                                  tofoe    20%
                                                                    14%
                                                           15%            10%
                                                           10%
                                                       arhS 5%
                                                            0%
                                                                   1996  1997   1998    1999   2000  2001   2002  2003   2004




                                                                    Exports of Forest Products from Uruguayan Ports


                                                           2,500,000


                                                           2,000,000

                                                                                                                    M'Bopicua
                                                           1,500,000
                             eary/                                                                                  Nueva Palmira

                                                                                                                    Fray Bentos
                                  onst                     1,000,000
                                                                                                                    Montevideo

                                                            500,000


                                                                  0
                                                                     1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005


                                                                                    Source: MTOP


In addition, the ongoing reforms in the port sector (outside the scope of this project) contributed to
increase private participation in the sector, lowering further transportation costs. Some initiatives put
in place during the past years to increase the efficiency of Uruguyan Ports are described below.

Staff Rationalization. With the incentives provided for in the Ports Law, a significant number of
voluntary resignations took place in ANP's port staff, and ANSE stevedoring pool was virtually
emptied. This led to the transfer of almost 20 million dollars to private activity which promoted the
formation of about 48 companies acting in the various commercial ports in free competition terms,
under the authorization system, thus giving place to the increase of productivity and supply of more
services to handle freight.

Private sector participation (PSP). The private sector, which had already developed outside the port
premises in container operations through significant investments in yards and equipment, assumed
the leading role in cargo handling inside the port, resulting in an important improvement in operation
performance.

Tariff reductions. The ANP's new organizational structure allowed it to implement a tariff reduction
for imported goods in 1992. The next year, the second stage of tariff adjustment was undertaken
through the re-organization of the whole system, thus allowing for a new global rebate of previous


                                                                                 53

tariffs.

Traffic Gains. As a consequence of the above mentioned rebate of port costs and improvement of
operational performance, there was an increase in certain traffics and a gain of new business, some of
which were unthinkable until then. Such is the case of the almost 40 thousand cars in transit through
Montevideo and Nueva Palmira in 1993, using an operating strategy which was economically
impossible within the stevedoring system prior to the Ports Law.

Productivity. The improvement in operational performance is equivalent to the improvement of port
capability to deal with larger traffic volumes. This has a significant economic value as, in fact, it
involved an extension of the port without any additional investment.

ANP's Image. In summary, this change has led to an improvement in the image of the enterprise,
both internal and external.

Port Reliability. Insofar as reliability is concerned, the almost chaotic conditions mentioned above
(20% of time lost by interruptions) has turned into a situation resulting from the joint effort of
Directors, Managers and workers where, in spite of obvious approaching discrepancies, there have
been no service interruptions in port operations during the last three years.




                                             54

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


       Names                 Title             Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Rodrigo Archondo-
Callao              Highway Engineer      ETWTR

Raul M. Auzmendi     Consultant           LCSTR       Economic Evaluation
Louis H. Carbonnier Sr Forestry Spec.     ARD
Alberto Figueiredo-
Nunes               Consultant            LCSTR       Railway Procurement

Maria Lucy Giraldo   Sr Procurement Spec. LCSPT
Sergio S. Miquel    Consultant            LCSTR       Highway Consultant
Reynaldo F. Pastor   Sr Counsel           LEGLA

Jorge M. Rebelo     Lead Transport
                    Specialist            LCSTR       Task Team Leader

Graham Smith        Consultant            SASEI       Peer Reviewer-Bank
                                                      Staff
Louis Stanley                                         Peer Reviewer-Bank
Thompson            Consultant            DECRG       Staff
Supervision/ICR
Jose Alonso-Biarge  Consultant            LCSTR       Highway Specialist
Rodrigo Archondo-
Callao              Highway Engineer      ETWTR

Antonio Leonardo    Financial Management
Blasco              Specialis             LCSFM

Vickram Cuttaree    Infrastructure
                    Economist             LCSTR       ICR Main Author

Ana Maria Grofsmacht Procurement Analyst  LCSPT
Daniel R. Gross      Consultant           LCSEN       Resettlement Specialist
Juan Pablo Martinez Consultant            LCSTR       Railway Specialist
Sergio S. Miquel    Consultant            LCSTR       Highway Consultant

Jorge M. Rebelo     Lead Transport
                    Specialist            LCSTR       Task Team Leader

Luis M. Schwarz     Sr Financial
                    Management Specia     LCSFM

Paul Edwin Sisk     Sr Financial
                    Management Specia     SARFM

Alejandro Roger
Solanot             Consultant            LCSFM       Financial Management

Solange P. Van      Language Program
Veldhuizen          Assistant             LCSTR




                                         55

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                                           No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY96                                                       2.88
                    FY97                                                     178.04
                    FY98                                                       0.00
                    FY99                                                       0.00
                    FY00                                                       0.00
                    FY01                                                       0.00
                    FY02                                                       0.00
                    FY03                                                       0.00
                    FY04                                                       0.00
                    FY05                                                       0.00
                    FY06                                                       0.00
                    FY07                                                       0.00
                                    Total:                                   180.92
Supervision/ICR
                    FY98                                                      48.41
                    FY99                                                      65.61
                    FY00                                     6                33.82
                    FY01                                     6                41.21
                    FY02                                     7                55.56
                    FY03                                     2                31.44
                    FY04                                     9               100.92
                    FY05                                     6                74.89
                    FY06                                   10                 85.83
                    FY07                                     5                37.66
                   Total:                                  51                575.35




                                        56

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                    57

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                  58

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

URUGUAY
Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Públicas

PROYECTO DE TRANSPORTE DE PRODUCTOS FORESTALES
Préstamo BIRF 4204-UR - Préstamo de JEXIM a Uruguay

REPORTE DE FINALIZACIÓN DEL PROYECTO

INTRODUCCIÓN

La República Oriental del Uruguay (ROU) ha sido, tradicionalmente, un país agropecuario con su
producción enfocada principalmente hacia los sectores tradicionales de la ganadería extensiva. Sin
embargo, en la década de los años sesenta, se empieza a percibir la necesidad de que el país incursione en
la producción forestal.

Como consecuencia de esta primera inquietud, se aprueba en el año 1968 la primer Ley Forestal y es en el
año 1987 en que a través de la Ley 15.939 del 28 de diciembre se impulsa el actual desarrollo y
crecimiento que tiene la forestación en Uruguay. Esta ley declara de interés nacional la defensa, el
mejoramiento, la ampliación, la creación de los recursos forestales, el desarrollo de las industrias
forestales y, en general, de la economía forestal, otorgándoles exoneraciones tributarias y subsidios a las
plantaciones. Como consecuencia de ella, se produjo un gran desarrollo del sector forestal, con un
paulatino aumento de los saldos exportables de producción año a año.

En 1995 el saldo exportable de la producción fue de 380.000 toneladas, y las predicciones de producción
de materia prima con destino final de exportación (con o sin procesamiento) fueron las siguientes:


            Año        1996   1997  1998  1999  2000   2001  2002   2003   Siguientes

            Producción 600    520   480   1.090 1.360  2.390 4.380  7.150  Creciente en tasas del 1 al 3%

                                                                           (Miles de toneladas)


Partiendo de estas premisas, el Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Públicas (MTOP) en el año 1996
contrató un estudio a la firma consultora "CSI Ingenieros", que fue financiado en el marco del Proyecto
de Transporte I (Préstamo BIRF 3021-UR), para la preparación de un Programa de Infraestructura de
Transporte de Productos Forestales. En este estudio se analizaron los diversos escenarios de transporte,
su logística, y aspectos económicos y ambientales. Entre otras conclusiones del estudio surge la necesidad
de la interrelación participativa de los modos carretero y ferroviario con la asociación del modo portuario.

Es en este marco que se solicitó al Banco Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento (BIRF) un
Préstamo a efectos de financiar el Proyecto de Transporte de Productos Forestales (PTPF),                   El
mismo, se financió por el BIRF a través del Préstamo 4204-UR (50%), cofinanciado por el Export -
Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) (Actual Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)) (19.74%), con
una participación del Gobierno como Aporte Local (30.26%).

El Proyecto de Transporte de Productos Forestales fue diseñado tomando en cuenta las premisas
principales que surgieron del estudio mencionado en el punto 1.4, y en concordancia con los objetivos
establecidos en el "Country Assistance Strategy" (CAS) de fecha 25 de enero de 1994 para el sector, y



                                                59

también con el CAS presentado el 26 de junio de 1997.

Con fecha 1 de julio de 1997 se firmó el Convenio de Préstamo 4204-UR entre la ROU y el BIRF; y con
fecha 26 de diciembre de 1997, se firmó el Convenio de Préstamo entre la ROU y el JEXIM. Se firmaron
también con la misma fecha, Convenios sobre los Proyectos entre el BIRF y la Administración Nacional
de Puertos (ANP), y entre el BIRF y la Administración de Ferrocarriles del Estado (AFE).

Con fecha 29 de diciembre de 1997, se firmaron Convenios subsidiarios entre la ROU, representada por
el MTOP y la ANP y la AFE.

El MTOP fue designado representante del prestatario a los efectos establecidos en la Sección 11.03 de las
Condiciones Generales.

El monto total del Proyecto, y su financiamiento, se muestran en el siguiente cuadro:


                                        TOTAL       BIRF                  JBIC                    GOBIERNO


         Convenio de Préstamo           152.000.000 76.000.000            30.000.000              46.000.000


         Cancelación de u$s 10 millones 142.000.000 71.000.000 17/12/2001 28.026.000 28/06/2002   42.974.000

                                                                                   (Montos en u$s)



    La cancelación del monto de u$s 10 millones del total del Proyecto que surge de la tabla anterior,
    obedeció, entre otros aspectos, a que el país adquirió por concepto de cancelación de deuda contraída
    por la ex Unión Soviética rieles de acero para vías férreas. Estos rieles, cuyo costo aproximado era de
    u$s 17 millones pasarían a formar parte de las licitaciones ferroviarias.

    La fecha prevista en el Convenio de Préstamo del BIRF para el cierre del Proyecto era el 31 de
    diciembre de 2001, mientras que el Convenio del JBIC establecía como fecha de finalización del
    Proyecto el 30 de junio de 2001, y para el último desembolso el 30 de junio de 2002.

    Durante los años 2001 y 2002, toda la región, y nuestro país en particular, afrontó una grave crisis
    económica y financiera que determinó que se debieran adoptar severas medidas de restricción
    presupuestaria en los topes de ejecución. Esto, sumado a los cambios estructurales que se verificaron
    tanto en el MTOP como en AFE, llevaron a retrasos en los cronogramas previstos inicialmente, por lo
    que fue necesario solicitar tanto al BIRF como al JBIC diversas enmiendas prorrogando la fecha de
    finalización del Proyecto hasta el 30 de abril de 2006 (punto 3.2.4.). A su vez, se solicitó y se nos
    concedió un período de gracia para justificar los gastos incurridos (hasta el 30 de setiembre de 2006).

OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO

Los objetivos generales del Proyecto, según se establecieron en el Convenio de Préstamo, fueron los
siguientes:

(a) Mejorar, mediante los Sub Proyectos de Infraestructura, el transporte de los productos forestales
desde el lugar de la extracción forestal al puerto de salida, a efectos de mejorar la relación costo -
eficiencia del transporte.

(b) Mejorar la productividad de los sectores vial y portuario.




                                                      60

(c) Mejorar la eficiencia de AFE y reducir los subsidios asignados a este sector a través de la
participación del sector privado en la operación y transporte de los productos forestales.

DISEÑO E IMPLEMENTACION

DISEÑO

El Proyecto fue diseñado según los escenarios planteados en el Programa de Infraestructura de Transporte
de Productos Forestales mencionado en le punto 1.4.

En el mismo, se analizaron tres escenarios: Cero (S0), Uno (S1) y Dos (S2). La primera alternativa, S0,
era la de hacer solamente aquellos proyectos incluidos en los programas ya aprobados de construcción de
carreteras del país; S1 era una alternativa de inversión sólo en carreteras, con las correspondientes
inversiones en caminos rurales, puertos y navegación, y S2 incluía carreteras y vías férreas como red
multimodal de transporte terrestre, complementado por las mismas mejoras en caminos rurales, puertos y
navegación.

El Proyecto tomó el escenario del modo carretero con mejoras en caminos rurales, junto con el ferrocarril
y pequeñas rehabilitaciones portuarias (Escenario S2).

Se determinaron dos corredores principales: el de Rivera - Montevideo, y el conector hacia el puerto de
Fray Bentos. En este último, al encontrarse cercano a las plantaciones, se contaba con una ventaja
comparativa del modo carretero frente al ferroviario, por lo que se priorizó rehabilitar las carreteras de
esa área. En cambio, en el corredor Montevideo - Rivera, un buen servicio ferroviario competiría en
situación ventajosa frente al camión.

El Proyecto planteó en consecuencia, rehabilitar rutas en el área de influencia del Puerto de Fray Bentos,
sumando algunas rutas secundarias de acceso a Montevideo e inversiones ferroviarias en las líneas
Montevideo - Rivera y Blanquillo - Florida con el objetivo de en un futuro poder captar mas de un 40%
del tráfico maderero con el consecuente ahorro en el mantenimiento de las rutas, disminución de
accidentes y congestionamiento urbano de tráfico.

El Proyecto también fue diseñado teniendo en consideración lecciones aprendidas de Proyectos anteriores
que fueron incorporadas en él, según se detallan a continuación:

a) La reforma portuaria mostró que la concesión a privados de ciertas áreas conllevaba a mejores
prácticas, lo que pese a la resistencia a la privatización de servicios proporcionados por agencias
estatales, fue reflejado en el diseño del Proyecto, estableciéndose la conveniencia de realizar una
concesión de la operación del transporte forestal de AFE.

b) De acuerdo a lo que surgió del estudio de Cargas a los Usuarios, el sector transporte debería ser
fortalecido para promover la integración intermodal y minimizar las ineficientes distorsiones impositivas
que pudieran existir.

c) El gerenciamiento de AFE debería reestructurarse a efectos de incorporar prácticas comerciales que
permitieran a través de la tarifa y del involucramiento del sector privado recuperar los costos operativos
y en el largo plazo eliminar los subsidios estatales.

d) Continuaría con el financiamiento del Programa de Mantenimiento de Caminos Departamentales



                                                 61

iniciado en el Proyecto de Transporte I, que resultara tan beneficioso para nuestro país.

e) Se realizarían estudios previos (factibilidad económica, ambiental y de detalles de ingeniería) a efectos
de facilitar el inicio de los proyectos.

f) El Proyecto debería contar con la flexibilidad necesaria para evitar que retrasos en la obtención de
fondos de contrapartida conllevaran a dificultades en la obtención de los objetivos del mismo.

IMPLEMENTACIÓN

La implementación del Proyecto estuvo bajo la responsabilidad de la Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos
(UCP) del MTOP. Se crearon además, dentro de la Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV), AFE y ANP,
Unidades de Implementación (PIU) a efectos de implementar los respectivos componentes.

Para la implementación del Proyecto se contó con fondos de una Donación el Gobierno de Japón por un
monto de u$s 1:034.000 (Trust Fund Nº 027089) que fue administrada a través de un Convenio del
MTOP con el Programa de Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo (PNUD). Esta Donación financiaría las
siguientes actividades:

a) Preparación de diseños, especificaciones técnicas, dibujos y documentos de licitación para:

    - Rehabilitación y/o construcción de infraestructura ferroviaria, portuaria o vial a ser financiada por el
    Proyecto de Transporte de Productos Forestales
    - Equipamiento ferroviario requerido en el Proyecto

b) Realización de un modelo de simulación para determinar los correspondientes niveles de cargas a los
usuarios y para los niveles de tráfico de madera en el Puerto de Montevideo

c) Realización de un estudio del marco institucional de AFE analizando las distintas opciones para
promover la participación del sector privado en las operaciones y, como resultado de éste, proponer un
nuevo marco regulatorio.

    Se realizaron los estudios que se detallan a continuación:


 Estudio                                                       Cosultoría         Costo final (u$s)   Contraparte
 Gestión operativa ferroviaria                                 Ing. Alvadalejo    14.434              AFE
 Concesión líneas ferroviarias                                 Ing. J.P. Martínez 32.750              IPTI - MTOP
 Asesoramiento en proyectos ferroviarios                       Ing. Preziosi      12.000              IPTI - MTOP
 Proyecto Ejecutivo ­ Tramo I vía férrea (línea MVD ­ Rivera)  Ing. Piazza        61.000              AFE
 Proyecto Ejecutivo ­ Tramo II                                 Ing. Granato       68.000              AFE
 Proyecto Ejecutivo ­ Tramo III                                Ing. Nunes         86.000                AFE
 Proyecto Ejecutivo ­ Tramo IV                                 Ing. Herrera       84.400                AFE
 Elaboración Manual Ambiental                                  Ingendesa          14.150                MTOP
 Proyecto ejecutivo para ampliación Puerto de Fray Bentos      Cotec ­ Planave    190.000               ANP
 Estudio suelos Puerto Fray Bentos                             Ing. Servan        99.180                ANP
 Proyecto Ejecutivo Ruta 24                                    CSI Ingenieros     270.009               DNV - MTOP
 Sistema informático para UCP                                  Netmasters         27.040                MTOP




                                                             62

De los estudios realizados se destacan los Manuales Ambientales para obras viales, ferroviarias y
portuarias, los que constituyeron una excelente herramienta para el correcto análisis y mitigación de
problemas ambientales. Estos Manuales Ambientales fueron aprobados por el BIRF y forman parte
de todas las licitaciones y llamados que se efectúan.

Los proyectos ejecutivos para el Puerto de Fray Bentos y para la Ruta 24, fueron utilizados como
base para los llamados a licitación por parte de la ANP y la DNV respectivamente.

En cuanto a los proyectos ejecutivos realizados para los 4 tramos de vía férrea en la línea Montevideo
(MVD) - Rivera, AFE resolvió no utilizarlos por considerar que estaban proyectados técnicamente
para un estándar de vía superior al requerido lo que implicaba un monto de inversión superior al
financiamiento con que se contaba. Además de esto, un cambio en la estrategia de gestión determinó
que se priorizara el llamado a licitación para que los privados rehabilitaran la vía férrea.

Durante la implementación, se realizaron varias enmiendas al Proyecto, ajustando varios de su
componentes, y si bien los objetivos generales se cumplieron en alguna medida, no todos se
realizaron a través de la financiación Proyecto. El cuadro adjunto describe las enmiendas que se
efectuaron durante el ciclo de vida del Proyecto:


   BANCO MUNDIAL                                     JBIC

   Fecha                                  Fecha      Fecha                                 Extensión (último
                                                                                           desembolso)
   Enmienda                               Extensión  enmienda


   20/03/1998  Realocación                           26/06/1998 Realocación


   17/04/2001  Realocación                           25/04/2001 Realocación

               Extensión y cancelación de                       Extensión y cancelación de
   17/12/2001  u$s 5.000.000              31/12/2002 28/06/2002 u$s 1.974.000              30/06/2003

   8/10/2002   Extensión y realocación    31/12/2003 30/06/2003 Extensión y realocación    31/12/2003

   23/10/2003  Extensión y realocación    31/12/2004 29/12/2003 Extensión y realocación    30/06/2005

   9/12/2004   Extensión y realocación    31/12/2005 30/6/2005  Extensión y realocación    30/4/2006

   3/6/2005    Realocación


   7/12/2005   Extensión, realocación y   30/4/2006

               modificación de paripassu



DESCRIPCIÓN DEL PROYECTO

Para el cumplimiento de los objetivos del Proyecto (punto 2), se establecieron dos componentes
principales que actuaron interrelacionados:

Infraestructura y equipamiento (95% del costo base del Proyecto):

El componente de Infraestructura comprendía las siguientes áreas.

a)   Rehabilitación de rutas primarias y secundarias vinculadas al tráfico forestal de acuerdo a las
normas del MERCOSUR y de aquellas conectoras de las principales zonas forestadas con las zonas
de acopio y salida de la exportación.

b)   Rehabilitación de las principales vías férreas vinculadas al tráfico forestal, y adquisición de
equipamiento para AFE.



                                                  63

c)    Mejoramiento del desarrollo de los puertos vinculados a la exportación de madera,
principalmente el de Fray Bentos y obras complementarias en el de Montevideo.

d)   Estudio de localización y realización de una Estación de transferencia intermodal (plantación -
ferrocarril - puerto).

e)   Mantenimiento del Programa de Mantenimiento de Caminos Rurales Departamentales a través
de Convenios Anuales con las Intendencias Municipales participantes.

f)   Adquisición de equipos para AFE a efectos de reforzar y mejorar el parque rodante y para la
ejecución de trabajos de mantenimiento y adquisición de equipos y/o maquinaria para apoyo en las
tareas del puerto de Montevideo.

Políticas institucionales (5% del costo base del Proyecto):

El componente de Políticas institucionales comprendía los siguientes ítems:

a)   Reorganización de AFE e incremento de la participación del sector privado en las operaciones e
inversiones, en especial en el sector vinculado a la forestación.

b)   Promoción de la mejora en las políticas de tarifas a través de la introducción de un sistema de
Cargas a los Usuarios.

c)   Preparación de un estudio integral sobre el sector de transporte de mercancías por carretera.

d)   Preparación de análisis de aquellas obras civiles que pudieran ser necesarias para futuras
expansiones de la red de transporte, desde el punto de vista de la ingeniería, económico y ambiental.

Descripción por modo de transporte

Componente vial.

El objetivo del programa incluido en este componente era la rehabilitación de carreteras y la
realización de los trabajos de mantenimiento necesarias para atender el daño adicional que el
transporte forestal pudiera ocasionar en las redes de rutas seleccionadas, de modo de bajar los costos
de explotación y mantenimiento de los vehículos.

El programa tenía 3 componentes: a) el transporte desde las plantaciones a través de caminos
forestales departamentales hasta su sitio de acopio o hasta encontrar rutas nacionales, b) el programa
de mantenimiento de los caminos departamentales, y c) el transporte por rutas nacionales hacia los
puertos, o eventualmente hacia las plantas de procesamiento.

En relación a los caminos forestales departamentales, el tipo de trabajo y la frecuencia de
realización de los mismos, dependió del estado de los caminos y de la demanda de tráfico existente
en ese momento.

Este componente se llevaba a cabo este componente a través de Convenios entre el MTOP, la
Intendencia Municipal correspondiente, y los productores forestales involucrados.

El Programa de Mantenimiento de los Caminos Departamentales, fue la continuación del
programa iniciado en el Proyecto de Transporte I, y tuvo como objetivo la ejecución por parte de las
Intendencias Municipales participantes de tareas de mantenimiento vial en ciertos caminos
departamentales de su jurisdicción, con apoyo y transferencia de tecnologías por parte de la DNV.

En total se atendieron 9.000 kms de caminos por año, además de las obras de arte.

Inicialmente se previó la ejecución de este componente por un año (1997), pero a partir del año 2002
se continuó con el financiamiento del mismo.

En relación a las rutas nacionales, se preveía la rehabilitación de tramos de rutas de la zona forestal
del litoral de nuestro país conectoras con el puerto de Fray Bentos, (rutas 24, 25 y 90), y rutas


                                            64

secundarias conectoras a Montevideo desde la zona noroeste del país (rutas 6 y 7).

Durante el período de ejecución del Proyecto, por prioridades de gestión, la Ruta 90 y el tramo de
Ruta 6 fueron desafectadas, si bien con posterioridad algunos tramos fueron ejecutados con otra
financiamiento.

Los Contratos de Rehabilitación y Mantenimiento (CREMA) fueron incorporados al Proyecto en
la Enmienda de fecha 23/10/2003. Se trataba de contratos de mantenimiento por niveles de servicio,
para una determinada red de carreteras y por un período de 4 o 5 años a cargo de una empresa
contratista y con supervisión de la DNV. En total fueron 4 contratos que se venían ejecutando con el
financiamiento del Préstamo BIRF 4395-UR (finalizado el 30/9/2003), y en los cuáles se encontraban
tramos de rutas pertenecientes a la red forestal.

La rehabilitación de rutas y puentes pertenecientes a la Megaconcesión también fue incorporada en
la Enmienda de fecha 23/10/2003, ante la necesidad del Gobierno de mantener el financiamiento de
la contrapartida local que debía realizar de acuerdo al Convenio suscrito entre el MTOP y la
Corporación Nacional para el Desarrollo (CND) de fecha 5 de octubre de 2001 a través del cuál las
partes acordaron dar y recibir en régimen de concesión los estudios, proyectos, construcción,
mantenimiento, operación y explotación de las obras públicas de infraestructura según se detallaron
en un anexo del mismo.

La Megaconcesión surgió como una solución ante la escasez de recursos públicos para llevar adelante
las obras de infraestructura imprescindibles para evitar el deterioro de la red vial nacional.

Se concedió por 15 años la gestión de 1272 kms de carreteras de la red primaria (51% de la red
primaria y 15% de la red nacional) y de 38 puentes (17% de los puentes de la red nacional). Era una
concesión de costos compartidos, no pagaba canon y parte de los costos eran asumidos por el
Concedente.

El Concesionario contaba para financiar las obras con los ingresos generados por los peajes; por
pagos fijos por kilómetro mantenido y un ingreso mínimo garantido por el Concedente, limitado en
monto y duración para cubrir posibles disminuciones de los ingresos por peajes. A su vez se emitirían
bonos en el mercado para la mayor participación de los privados.

A partir del año 2005 con el cambio de Gobierno en nuestro país, y con la asunción de un nuevo
Directorio en la CND y por consiguiente la CVU S.A. el Convenio tuvo algunas modificaciones,
aunque esto no afectó a la marcha de las obras financiadas por el Proyecto.

Componente ferroviario.

Se previó la ejecución dentro de este componente de la rehabilitación de 2 tramos de vía en las líneas:
Montevideo - Rivera y Florida Blanquillo, y también la adquisición del equipo de vía necesario para
el mantenimiento de las mismas.

El componente ferroviario en el transcurso del ciclo del Proyecto se vio afectado por varios cambios,
tanto del punto de vista estratégico como el punto de vista estructural, lo que originó modificaciones
en las obras de rehabilitación realizadas y también en las adquisiciones que se incluyeron en el
Proyecto.

El cuadro adjunto ejemplifica el tráfico de productos forestales transportado por tren durante los
últimos años.




                                            65

                         1997     1998     1999   2000   2001    2002   2003     2004     2005


  Madera aserrada  Ton.           10.800   9.092  14.085 12.930  13.980 13.290   23.670   17.490


  Madera en rolos  Ton.  78.519   73.902   78.185 49.795 39.253  16.266 53.293   78.036   87.858

  Total por tren   Ton   78.519   84.702   87.277 63.880 52.183  30.246 66.583   101.706  105.318




Pese al aumento progresivo de la exportación de madera, el transporte por ferrocarril no obtuvo gran
crecimiento, incluso disminuyó en algunos años, notándose una recuperación en los últimos dos años.
Ante esta realidad el Gobierno optó por darle un cambio institucional de la empresa a través de
cambios normativos.

Fue a través de la promulgación de varias leyes y decretos que se procesó el cambio institucional de
AFE, que conllevo a una modificación sustantiva en sus potestades. A continuación se enumeraran
las principales leyes que influyeron en este componente.

-    Ley 17.243 (29/6/2000) - Se autorizó al Poder Ejecutivo a otorgar el acceso de empresas
privadas al modo ferroviario y se dispuso transferir al MTOP una parte del subsidio antes destinado a
AFE.

-    Ley 17.556, Art. 150 (18/9/2002) - Se traspasó al MTOP los cometidos, facultades y bienes
relativos a la infraestructura ferroviaria.

-    Decreto 404/003 (1/10/2003) - Definió las líneas férreas económicamente sustentables.

-     Resolución s/n (27/11/2003) - Marco Regulatorio del Sector Ferroviario que estableció la nueva
organización institucional del sector y definió las atribuciones que la DNV y la DNT ejercieron a
través de las gerencias especializadas creadas en ambas Direcciones para ocuparse del modo
ferroviario.

-     Ley 17930 (19/12/2005) (Presupuesto período 2006-2010) - Artículo 179 - AFE reasumió la
responsabilidad de todas las actividades relativas a la infraestructura y el control de la circulación.
Art. 180 ­ Autorizó a AFE a promover esquemas de asociación público ­ privada.

Es en este contexto normativo en que a partir del 1 de enero de 2003 se efectivizó la separación del
gerenciamiento de la parte de operaciones de la infraestructura: Esta reforma requirió que AFE
actuara como una empresa comercial, financiándose con los ingresos provenientes del tráfico y con
un subsidio estatal gradualmente en disminución, pasando el gerenciamiento de la infraestructura y
las tareas regulatorias al MTOP.

En el MTOP el manejo de la infraestructura ferroviaria se organizó dentro de la DNV en dos
Gerencias: Explotación Ferroviaria y Vía y Obras, a las que correspondió la rehabilitación y el
mantenimiento de los tramos de la red ferroviaria considerados económicamente sustentables. En
cuánto a la regulación, estuvo a cargo de la Dirección Nacional de Transporte (DNT)

Este esquema se llevó a cabo entre los años 2003 - 2005 inclusive, en el cual se hicieron varios
llamados para rehabilitación de vía férrea y para la adquisición de maquinaria y repuestos.

El MTOP realizó también en el año 2004 un llamado a licitación para la rehabilitación y
mantenimiento de 1100 kms de vías férreas (las definidas previamente como económicamente
sustentables). El llamado procuraba que empresas privadas se hicieran cargo de la inversión para la
recuperación de esta red. Se presentaron dos consorcios con firmas extranjeras, pero la licitación fue
declarada desierta.




                                               66

   Finalmente, de acuerdo al artículo 179 de la Ley 17930 mencionada, AFE reasume la responsabilidad
   de todas las actividades relativas a la infraestructura y el control de circulación. Esto se hizo efectivo
   a partir del 1 de enero de 2006 con lo cual nuevamente AFE actúa como único organismo rector de
   la operación e infraestructura.

   Es en este marco en que actualmente AFE está trabajando en varios esquemas de Asociación Público
   Privada (APP), a efectos de conseguir inversión para la rehabilitación de tramos de vías y el aumento
   del volumen de carga a través de los operadores.

   Componente portuario

   El reporte final del Estudio del Programa de Infraestructura de Transporte de Productos Forestales
   (punto 1.4), basado en las proyecciones de demanda propuso y evaluó las inversiones consideradas
   necesarias en los puertos involucrados en el transporte de la producción forestal. Se consideró como
   premisa, que el transporte de la madera sería, principalmente en forma de troncos.

   En esa situación, consideró como puertos principales para la exportación de la madera, el Puerto de
   Fray Bentos y el Puerto de Montevideo, ambos bajo la jurisdicción de la Administración Nacional de
   Puertos (ANP)

   Las expectativas de exportación de la madera previstas en el mencionado estudio no se cumplieron
   por diversos factores de índole interno y externo, estando actualmente previsto el pico de la demanda
   para el año 2010. Pese a ello la exportación de madera por los puertos esta creciendo de manera
   paulatina y con la inclusión de otros puertos, según se muestra en el cuadro adjunto:


   Puerto            1997    1998       1999         2000          2001       2002          2003       2004      2005
   Montevideo        433.322 315.852    362.441      391.383       373.841    354.443       676.085    941.584   1.207.730
   Fray Bentos       125.351 170.080    182.834      284.357       332.357    400.496       450.662    413.148   380.391
   NuevaPalmira                         7.398        15.660        41.615     86.132        197.997    298.740   315.608

   M bopicuá                                                                                           161.909   219.411

   TOTAL             558.673 485.932    552.673      691.400       747.813    841.071       1.324.744  1.815.550 2.123.140

(*)Valores en toneladas
                                 (**) El total por puerto incluye la madera en rolos, aserrada y chips



   El componente portuario tuvo durante el período de ejecución del Proyecto algunos cambios que
   motivaron un lento avance de la ejecución financiera del componente. Esto fue motivado, entre otros
   factores, por la construcción dentro del área de influencia de Fray Bentos de un puerto privado
   (M'bopicuá) para la exportación de madera a cargo de la empresa ENCE de capitales españoles.
   Asimismo se inauguró una planta chipeadora en los alrededores de Montevideo y se realizó un
   llamado para el uso del Puerto de La Paloma para la exportación de chips que finalmente no se
   concretó.

   De esta manera, la inversión privada coadyuvó al cumplimiento de los objetivos generales de este
   componente del Proyecto establecidos en el Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

   En cuánto al Estudio para la localización de una Estación de transferencia intermodal (punto 4.1 d)
   surgido para permitir una racionalización de las conexiones con el sistema ferroviario como medio
   relevante en el transporte de la madera, fue postergado entre otros motivos por no cumplirse la
   demanda de la madera de la forma estimada.




                                                        67

ANÁLISIS DE LA EJECUCIÓN

Componente Vial

Rutas y Puentes

Se analiza aquí la ejecución de las rutas previstas originalmente dentro del Proyecto, así como
también la ejecución de las rutas y puentes incluidas posteriormente (Punto 4.3.1.3.2.):


Ruta Nº     Tramo                            Long.       aprox.                                                Costo     final (*)
                                             (km)                 Código         Contratista                   (u$s)

Obras previstas originalmente
7           Ruta 12 ­ Fray Marcos            14,90                FC 01          Hernández & González          6.019.273
7           San Jacinto ­ Ruta 12            27,80                FC 02          Techint                       11.653.566
24          Ruta 2­Ruta 20 (N. Berlín)       21,80                FC 03          Colier                        6.876.744
24          Ruta 20 ­ Ruta 25                27,00                FC 05          Colier                        6.511.755
25          Ruta 24 ­ Young                  24,00                FC 06          Hernández & González          6.306.870
25          Menafra ­ Ruta 90                19,30                FC 08          Colier                        3.893.863
5           Pasaje ferroviario                                    FC 14          Saceem                        120.160

-           Rambla portuaria                 0,54                 FC 15          Stiller                       1.450.274

Total kms de rutas                           134,80
Rutas Convenio MTOP-CVU
21          234km ­ Ao. Las Vacas            18,30                FC 16          Colier                        2.471.556
2           Mercedes­Pte.San Martín          28,30                FM 01          R. Alvarez                    4.290.777
3           472km000 ­ Río Damián            13,89                FM02           Hernández & González          3.958.434
5           Sauce ­ 462km000                 9,95                 FM 03          R. Alvarez                    2.512.852
8           Ao. Sarandi­ Rió Cebollatí       23,00                FM 04          Tracoviax                     2.561.852
9           San Carlos ­ Rocha               37,50                FM 05          Tracoviax                     3.951.413
11          Sta.Lucía- Villa Rodríguez       11,07                FM 06          E. Díaz Alvarez               3.293.063
5           P.de los Toros­270km000          43,78                FM 07          Colier                        6.692.125
11          Ecilda Paullier­Juan Soler       25,00                FM 09          Colier                        3.482.411(**)
11          San José­ Villa Rodríguez        14,00                FM 10          R. Alvarez                    1.973.977(**)
3           Ruta 26­Acc. Ao. Guaviyú         26,70                FM 36          Tracoviax                     5.549.728
8           Minas- Ao. Marmarajá             29,00                FM 37          Tracoviax                     4.943.412

Total kms de Rutas                           280,49
Puentes Convenio MTOP-CVU
1       Río Rosario                          puente               FM 11          Saceem                        1.156.962
11      Cañada Echeverría                    puente               FM 13          Bersur - Orinoco              166.968
11      Ao. El Laurel                        puente               FM 14          Bersur ­ Orinoco              133.656
6       Ao. Sauce de Malbajar                puente               FM 22          Incoci                        342.944
5       Ao. Bañado Rocha                     puente               FM 16          Ptes. & Construcciones        222.096(**)

                                 (*) El costo final incluye en algunos casos el uso de imprevistos y ampliaciones de Contrato
                                                                  (**)Obras no finalizadas. Valor financiado por el Proyecto




                                                         68

Contratos de Rehabilitación y Mantenimiento (CREMAS)


En el cuadro siguiente se describen los contratos financiados dentro del Proyecto:



                                                              Long. aprox                   Costo final (*)
            Descripción                Rutas                               Empresa
                                                              (km)                          u$s

            CREMA II y X               93, 99, 10, 37 y 104   240          CVC              7.258.834

            CREMA VII                  21, 22, 50 y 54        145          Temifax          212.435

            CREMA IV                   5, 43 y 20             207          Colier           1.487.382

            Accesos a Montevideo                              31           Cons. Mant. Vial 284.068



             (*) Costo de la certificación financiada en el Proyecto



Mantenimiento de Caminos Rurales Departamentales

Se continuó con los cometidos de los Convenios inicialmente financiados por el Proyecto Transporte
I (Préstamo BIRF 3021-UR) pero fue objeto de sucesivas mejoras a lo largo de los años.

Se realizó el mantenimiento de aproximadamente 9.000 kms de caminos departamentales de grava
por año, mas la ejecución de obras de arte, lo que equivale a un 33% del total de la red vial de cada
departamento.

Estos Convenios se han ejecutado en forma ininterrumpida todos los años, siendo financiados por el
Proyecto los correspondientes a los años 1997 y 2002 al 2005 inclusive.

En estos años se ha mantenido un nivel de ejecución por parte de las Intendencias muy bueno, salvo
alguna excepción puntual, oscilando éste en un orden superior al 92% de cumplimiento del total
previsto por año.

Caminos forestales (Convenios)

De este componente se concretaron dos Convenios entre el MTOP, las Intendencias Municipales de
Rio Negro y Rivera y los Productores forestales involucrados, para ejecución de caminos rurales de
penetración a las plantaciones:


                                        Intendencia    Año     Km.   Costo (u$s)
                                        Río Negro      1999    27    240.000
                                        Rivera         1999    24    294.000



En el caso del departamento de Río Negro, se financió la realización de un camino de penetración de
la plantación con la Ruta 25; mientras que en el departamento de Rivera se realizaron 4 caminos de
conexión de las plantaciones con la Ruta 5 y con la Ruta 27.

Componente ferroviario

Rehabilitación de vía férrea.

El PAD preveía la rehabilitación de aproximadamente 300 kms de vía férrea en la línea Montevideo -
Rivera y la línea Florida - Blanquillo.


                                                        69

Si bien se realizaron los proyectos ejecutivos para cuatro tramos de la línea Montevideo - Rivera
(punto 3.2.2.4.), estas obras de rehabilitación no se llevaron a cabo por las cambiantes circunstancias
coyunturales que sufrió AFE en todo este período.

En cuánto a la línea Florida - Blanquillo, las restricciones financieras y presupuestarias que debió
afrontar el MTOP, determinaron que esta línea que sólo servía para el transporte forestal, no se
considerara prioritaria.

Sí se realizaron, una vez efectuada la separación de la infraestructura y de las operaciones (Punto
4.3.2.4.), varios llamados de licitación con procedimientos del BIRF, de pequeños tramos de vía
(entre 5 y 10 kms) en la línea a Rivera y adquisiciones, con el objetivo de ganar experiencia en la
gestión, monitorear el mercado y establecer precios testigo para las provisiones habituales destinadas
a la infraestructura. Los llamados fueron los siguientes:


                                                                                              Monto        Costo
Obra                                            Tramo                Licitación Contratista   Contrato     final
                                                                                              u$s          u$s

Renov. de vía ­ Durazno                         203km­208km          LPN 24/03  MONALI        486.173
                                                                                                           898.510
Ampliación " "        "                         197km­203km          LPN 24/03  MONALI        483.548

Renov. de vía ­ Tacuarembó                      440km­445km          LPN 32/04  Perforac. del
                                                                                Litoral       391.534      340.673

Renov.de vía ­ Piedra Sola               (**)   382km­393km          LPN 5/05   -             838.608 (*)  -
Renov. de vía ­ Valle Edén               (**)   410km­420km          LPN16/05   -             823.330 (*)  -
Renov.de vía ­ Rio Yi al N.              (**)   208km­219km          LPN 29/05  -             930.616 (*)  -
Mejoramiento en tramos red activa        (**)   Varios               LPN 22/05  -             1.715.280    -

           (*) Monto de la Adjudicación
           (**) Obras adjudicadas, posteriormente desafectadas por AFE



Tal como surge del cuadro se rehabilitaron aproximadamente 16 kms de vía en la línea Montevideo -
Rivera, quedando desafectada la ejecución de los otros tramos por parte de AFE, al traspasarse el
mantenimiento de la infraestructura nuevamente a ésta a partir del año 2006.




                                                          70

Adquisición de bienes

Se detalla a continuación el listado de adquisiciones que se realización con financiación del Proyecto.


Licitaciones AFE

                                                                                                           Costo
Descripción                                                              Licitación   Contratista          final
                                                                                                           u$s
Adquisición de maquinaria ANA y PRB                                      LPI 27/97    Plasser y Theurer     829.491
Adquisición de 28 conjuntos de frenos de aire                            LPN 32/05    Knorr Bremse          97.901
     "                   "          "           (AMPLIACIÓN)               "   "      Knorr Bremse          20.978
Adquisición de 175 estabilizadores hidráulicos                           LPN 33/05    Geotec                27.978
Adquisición de componentes de circuitos de freno                         LPN 37/05    Ameco                 92.105
    "       "       "               "            (AMPLIACIÓN)              "    "     Ameco                 46.652
Adquisición de frenos de aire comprimido para vagones                    LPN 38/05    Ameco                 104.812
Adquisición de 288 estabilizadores hidráulicos                           LPN 39/05    Geotec                95.644
    "                    "            "          (AMPLIACIÓN)                         Geotec                47.822

Licitaciones DNV

Adquisición de 10.000 m3 de balasto de vía                               LPN 27/04    H. y González         324.807
Adquisición de pequeño material de vía                                   LPN 5/05     Servitec SRL          110.804
    "              "          "                (AMPLIACIÓN AFE) (*)                   Servitec SRL          55.402

Adquisición de soldadura aluminotérmica de rieles                        LPN 8/05     Railtech SRL          135.742
Adquisición de motores e insumos para zorras (Traspasada a AFE) (*)      LPN 14/05    Modern Track Mach.    105.897
Adquisición de motores e insumos para zorras (Traspasada a AFE) (*)       "    "      Ameco                 36.327
Adquisición de motores e insumos para zorras (Traspasada a AFE) (*)       "    "      Bartet & Ferraz       65.150
Adq. de repuestos e insumos para herramientas de vía      (AFE) (*)      LPN 17/05    Geismar, Railtech,    32.539
Adq. de repuestos e insumos para herramientas de vía      (AFE) (*)       "    "      Railtech              16.211
Adquisición de 3 cargadores frontales con retroexcavadora                LPN 19/05    Tornometal SA         163.604

                 (*)Licitaciones llamadas por la DNV y traspasadas a AFE



Componente portuario

Se detallarán de este componente los llamados llevados a cabo por la ANP en el marco del Proyecto.

Extensión del Muelle del Puerto de Fray Bentos.

La obra consiste en la extensión del muelle principal en 75 mts con el consiguiente refuerzo de las
estructuras y bitas de amarre. La licitación para esta obra fue realizada en el año 1999 y adjudicada en
el año 2000. No obstante esto, su ejecución se vio postergada hasta principios del año 2006, en que
la obra fue incluida dentro del Convenio de Concesión entre el MTOP y la CND. El desarrollo de
importantes inversiones privadas en el área de influencia de Fray Bentos especializadas en el tráfico
maderero, sumado a que las condiciones del mercado internacional de productos forestales no crecía
con el volumen esperado, determinó que Administración del momento no considerara prioritaria esta
obra por lo que su inicio fue postergado. A partir del año 2005 la nueva Administración revió esta
situación, y determinó la necesidad de continuar con la licitación. Los trabajos se iniciaron en marzo
de 2006, estando prevista su finalización para enero de 2007.

El contrato lo lleva a cabo el Consorcio ANHSA - Puentes por un monto total de unos U$S 5,5
millones.

Reparación del muelle de Fray Bentos

El impacto del buque maderero de bandera noruega "Rosita" mientras realizaba maniobras contra el



                                                           71

muelle del Puerto de Fray Bentos en enero de 1999, le ocasionó importantes daños en el muro, la
plataforma y la cimentación de pilotes de la esquina exterior del área cercana al punto de impacto.
Para atender el costo de las obras de reparación y a efectos de una pronta respuesta, se solicitó al
BIRF su financiamiento el cual fue otorgado. Los trabajos fueron ejecutados por la empresa Stiller.
Una vez hecho efectivo el cobro del seguro correspondiente, la ANP reembolsó el importe
financiado.

Acondicionamiento en muelles 1 y 2 del Puerto de Montevideo.

Esta licitación tenía como fin el lograr aumentar el ancho operativo de los muelles 1 y 2 para pasar de
10,4 mts a 16 mts, mediante la demolición de tinglados de los depósitos y del puente de unión entre
ambos y la pavimentación total en concreto asfáltico de la zona existente de adoquines, mas el área
anexada por la demolición de los tinglados. A la licitación se presentó un solo oferente con un precio
final de un 100% superior al estimado de oficina por lo cual el BIRF recomendó la cancelación de
misma y efectuar un nuevo llamado.


Asistencia técnica.

En el marco de las Asistencias Técnicas financiadas por el Proyecto se destacan las siguientes:

Estudio del haz de vías en el Puerto de Montevideo.

Este estudio tuvo como objetivo la identificación de los requerimientos de infraestructura ferroviaria
en la interfase puerto-ferrocarril del Puerto de Montevideo y la elaboración de un anteproyecto de haz
de vías para maniobras ferroviarias en el interior del recinto portuario que resultara adecuado para el
tráfico previsible vinculado al transporte de productos forestales.

Este estudio fue realizado por el Ing. Juan Tassano según el contrato firmado el 28 de enero de 2000.
El estudio de fecha mayo de 2000 fue de recibo por la contraparte (Grupo de Trabajo de la Interfase
MTOP-OPP-AFE-ANP).

Si bien se enviaron al BIRF todos los requerimientos formales para su financiamiento con fondos del
Proyecto, por razones administrativas ajenas al mismo, la consultoría fue financiada a través del
PNUD.

Este estudio de anteproyecto de opciones es una herramienta base para cuando la ANP decida realizar
un proyecto definitivo.


Estudio para la reparación del muelle del puerto de Fray Bentos

Como consecuencia del impacto del buque mencionado en el punto 5.3.2. en el muelle del puerto de
Fray Bentos, se necesitó con urgencia la realización de estudios para la evaluación de daños y la
determinación del tipo de reparación requerido. La consultora Cotec - Planave que estaba realizando
el Proyecto Ejecutivo para la ampliación del puerto fue contratada en forma directa para realizar los
estudios. El BIRF dió su no objeción a esta contratación, pero finalmente fue financiado con fondos
propios de la ANP.


Estudio de actualización de demanda de transporte de productos forestales.

Debido al tiempo transcurrido desde el momento en que se realizó el estudio previo al PTPF
realizado por la Consultora CSI (año 1996), y a los cambios producidos en los escenarios forestales,
se estimó conveniente la contratación de una Asistencia Técnica para realizar un Nuevo diagnóstico
del sector forestal uruguayo a efectos de su actualización y revisión.



                                             72

Este estudio revisaría la información sobre plantaciones , producción, industrialización, exportación y
transporte; actualizaría la información sobre los proyectos de inversión realizados y en estudio;
revisaría los estudios anteriores y establecería las diferencias entre la realidad y lo proyectado y sus
causas; plantearía un diagnóstico de la situación del sector y plantearía los escenarios futuros más
probables del mercado internacional y del sector uruguayo, y efectuaría proyecciones tentativas en las
diferentes fases de la actividad forestal que fundamenten las decisiones de inversión en el sector
transporte.

Este estudio fue adjudicado a la consultora Pike & Co. con la aprobación del BIRF, pero debido a que
no se pudo concluir durante la ejecución del PTPF se solicitó y fue concedida su financiamiento con
cargo al Préstamo 7303-UR. Está prevista la entrega del mismo para el segundo semestre del año
2006.

Estudio de prefactibilidad de uso del embalse del Río Negro.

El MTOP a través de la DNT, se abocó a la realización de un estudio de prefactibilidad de utilización
del embalse del Río Negro y sus afluentes como infraestructura de soporte de las operaciones de
transporte de la producción forestal. La importancia de este estudio radicaba en la necesidad de
incorporar un modo de transporte alternativo a los caminos departamentales como conectores entre
las plantaciones y las carreteras y eventualmente el ferrocarril, con los consiguientes altos costos de
mantenimiento que implicaban. Dicho estudio fue adjudicado a la consultora Ariel Nieto y
Asociados, habiendo sido realizado en el primer cuatrimestre del año 2006.

Si bien los resultados del estudio se siguen evaluando, la factibilidad económica de la incorporación
del modo fluvial al transporte de la madera, no surge rentable en primera instancia. De todos modos
ahora se cuenta con una muy buena identificación y relevamiento de la infraestructura actual y
proyectada en la zona de influencia del proyecto, así como también de normativa jurídica, de
componentes económicos y ambientales. Empresas forestales y de producción importantes como la
sueca Stora-Enso mostraron su interés en los resultados de dicho estudio, dado su interés en ubicarse
en esa área de influencia.




                                            73

EJECUCIÓN FÍSICA - FINANCIERA Y DESEMBOLSOS DEL PROYECTO

La tabla que sigue muestra el detalle de los componentes ya analizados, y que fueron financiados
dentro del Proyecto, discriminando la inversión final entre el aporte del BIRF, del JBIC, y el Aporte
Local:


                                                     INVERSIÓN FINAL

                                                     BIRF         JBIC          GOBIERNO        TOTAL

         1.A. Obras MTOP ­ Rutas Nacionales          44.582.193   17.569.559    29.864.160      92.015.912
         1.B. Obras MTOP ­ Caminos Forestales        229.914      90.770        51.072          371.756
         1.C. Contratos CREMA                        4.652.114    1.800.821     2.790.800       9.243.735
         2.Mantenimiento de Caminos Departamentales  17.670.309   6.976.495     10.650.024      35.296.827
         3. Obras AFE                                656.965      260.649       558.354         1.475.968
         4. Obras ANP                                1.111.687    5.900         474.820         1.592.408
         5. Bienes AFE                               1.371.083    413.203       454.750         2.239.037
         6.A. Consultorías MTOP

         6.B Consultorías AFE                        37.559       1.196         16.632          55.387
         6.C Consultorías PCU

         6.D Consultorías ANP

         TOTAL                                       70.311.824   27.118.593    44.860.612      142.291.030

                                                                              (montos en u$s)



   El avance físico - financiero del Proyecto por año, se muestra en el cuadro siguiente:



                   Año     BIRF        JBIC       GOBIERNO      Total invertido  Total   invertido
                                                                por año          acumulado
                   1997    0           0          0             0                0
                   1998    8.028.347   2.690.088  5.221.859     20.584.463       15.940.294
                   1999    5.489.732   2.146.715  3.794.086     11.287.050       27.370.827
                   2000    8.172.059   3.725.428  5.358.891     20.221.648       44.627.205
                   2001    1.666.598   594.350    1.725.291     1.752.955        48.613.444
                   2002    3.741.741   1.338.164  2.817.476     7.062.476        56.510.825
                   2003    6.570.673   2.263.307  5.012.341     12.421.528       70.357.146
                   2004    14.913.139  5.608.210  8.148.198     31.151.981       99.026.693
                   2005    14.419.152  5.029.207  8.581.403     25.799.334       127.056.455
                   2006    7.310.383   3.723.126  4.083.000     19.617.655       142.172.964

                                                     (Montos en u$s)

   Desembolsos estimados y desembolsos reales BIRF:


                                    1997    1998    1999    2000      2001     2002      2003     2004     2005  2006

     Estimado PAD anual                     21.3    11.6    22.1      21.0

     Estimado PAD acumulado                 21.3    32.9    55.0      76.0

     Real                           0.0     10.0    5.5     11.2      0.6      3.7       6.6      15.9     12.9  3.9
     Real acumulado                 0.0     10.0    15.5    26.7      27.3     31.0      37.6     53.5     66.4  70.3

   (Montos en millones de u$s)




                                                  74

DESEMPEÑO DEL BIRF

El relacionamiento con el BIRF, a través del Jefe del Proyecto y de los distintos técnicos que han
participado en las distintas instancias durante la vigencia del Proyecto, le proporcionó tanto al
MTOP como a los otros entes participantes (AFE y ANP), importantes aportes en el desarrollo de
las políticas de transporte en general y de infraestructura y gestión en particular.

El prolongado período de ejecución de este Proyecto (1997 - 2006) determinó que se requirieran
varias modificaciones y ajustes en sus componentes a efectos de adaptarlo a los cambios de
escenarios planteados. El BIRF participó activamente aportando su vasta experiencia en las áreas
involucradas y mostrando a lo largo de toda la vida del Proyecto gran receptividad y flexibilidad .

El BIRF colaboró técnicamente con el Gobierno en la evaluación de las distintas alternativas
presentadas para el transporte de los productos forestales.


DESEMPEÑO DEL PRESTATARIO

Durante el período de vigencia del Proyecto, la ejecución no fue regular. Este desempeño se
puede visualizar a través de las tablas incluidas en el punto 6.

Le ejecución en los años 1987 y 1998 se comenzó a un ritmo mas lento del proyectado debido
fundamentalmente a que los componentes ferroviario y portuario fueron postergados en el tiempo
por decisiones estratégicas.

En el año 2001 el Proyecto tuvo también una disminución importante en su ejecución motivada
por la crisis económico-financiera que empezó a sufrir nuestro país que tuvo su punto mas alto en
el año 2002 con una significativa reducción de los topes presupuestarios y de inversión .

A partir del año 2003, y con la finalización del Segundo Proyecto de Transporte (Préstamo BIRF
4395-UR), se comenzó a ejecutar el componente vial con un ritmo ascendente y constante que se
mantuvo hasta la finalización del Proyecto.

En el año 2000 el MTOP se abocó a plantear una reforma estructural del modo ferroviario (punto
4.3.2.3) para tratar de lograr una mayor participación del sector privado.

Respecto al componente portuario, la certeza de la concreción de puertos privados en el litoral
para la exportación de productos forestales, postergó la obra de la extensión del muelle del puerto
de Fray Bentos.

Estos motivos llevaron a que en el año 2002 se le planteara al BIRF una reformulación del
Proyecto a efectos de adecuarlo a los nuevos escenarios y a la realidad económica y financiera
imperante en ese momento, y a partir de allí y hasta el final de la vida del Proyecto se adecuó el
ritmo de ejecución y desembolsos con las metas planteadas.

La UCP cumplió sus funciones en forma satisfactoria, siendo importante su rol en el
relacionamiento con el BIRF y con las diferentes entidades involucradas tales como la DNV,
DNT, AFE y ANP entre otros.

Se presentaron al BIRF semestralmente los informes de seguimiento requeridos, incluyendo la
información de la ejecución física y financiera y de los indicadores de gestión. Anualmente se
envió la información estadística forestal.

En cuanto a la presentación de los Informes de Auditoria de los Estados Financieros elaborados
por el Tribunal de Cuentas de la República, los mismos fueron remitidos en tiempo y forma.




                                         75

ANÁLISIS DE RESULTADOS

Las proyecciones realizadas por el Programa de Infraestructura de Transporte de Productos
Forestales no se dieron en los hechos. Se habían estimado para el año 2004 que las exportaciones
totales de los productos forestales llegarían a 4.2 millones de toneladas anuales, cifra no
alcanzada. El déficit se debió a circunstancias desfavorables que ocurrieron en los mercados
internacionales y que mantuvieron los precios por debajo de las estimaciones originales, lo que
desestimuló la producción y por ende las exportaciones. En consecuencia, el tráfico de madera no
ejerció excesiva presión sobre la infraestructura existente, y lento ritmo de ejecución del
Proyecto, fundamentalmente del componente ferroviario, no tuvo efectos negativos en la
obtención de los objetivos establecidos.

Esta situación ha comenzado a cambiar, y las exportaciones de productos forestales están
creciendo en forma significativa, no sólo en Montevideo, sino también en los otros puertos.
(punto 4.3.3.2.). En general, el tráfico de productos forestales en el sistema portuario uruguayo
creció más de un 50% en el año 2003, convirtiéndose así en la principal carga despachada, y este
crecimiento se ha mantenido durante los años siguientes.

También se produjo una modificación en cuánto al tipo de producto forestal final a transportar en
relación al previsto en el Programa de Infraestructura de Transporte de Productos Forestales,
motivada por la existencia de plantas de producción de chips.

Independientemente de que los resultados en cuanto a la exportación de productos forestales no
resultaron de acuerdo a lo previsto, la plantaciones siguieron creciendo a un ritmo constante y
pese a tener un leve decrecimiento entre los años 2001 y 2003, los nuevos escenarios forestales
(instalación de dos plantas de celulosa, con la posibilidad de una tercera) han hecho retomar los
niveles de forestación, alcanzando en el año 2005 las 700.000 hectáreas plantadas.




                                        76

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
JBIC did not have comments on the ICR




                                      77

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Uruguay Country Assistance Strategy (1997, 2000, 2005) and CAS Progress Report (2002)
Uruguay Forest Products Transport Project Appraisal Document, 1997
Project's ISR and Aide Memoire (1998-2006)
Project's Progress Report (Semi-Annual, produced by Client)
Uruguay Transport Infrastructure and Rural Access PAD, 2005
Uruguay Second Transport Project ICR, 2004
Uruguay Policy Notes on Transport Sector, 2004
World Bank Report: A Reform Agenda for the Uruguayan Transport Sector, 1996




                                             78

