Report No. PIC4823
Project Name                  Uruguay-Forest Products Transport Project (4)
Region                        Latin American and Caribbean
Sector                        Transportion
Project ID                    UYPA39203
Borrower                      Republic of Uruguay
Implementation Agency         Ministry of Transport and Public Works
Rincon 561 -Sexto Piso, Montevideo-Uruguay
Phone (598-2) 961342
Fax: (598-2) 963753
Date this PID prepared        December 13, 1996
Tentative Appraisal Date      March 1997
Tentative Board Date          June 1997
1.          Background: From the mid-1970s through the early 1990s,
Uruguay had modest production of forest products from about 30,000
hectares of industrial plantations of eucalyptus, pine and a few other
species. In 1987, the government passed legislation encouraging
development of plantations through a combination of tax incentives and
planting subsidies. The incentives have been very successful, and from
1989 through 1994, 134,000 hectares of plantations have been created
with about 82% being fast-growing eucalyptus (see 1/), 15%    pine and 3%
poplar and willow. The Direccion Forestal estimates that between 1995
and 2010, an additional 40,000 hectares per year will be planted
resulting in the production of about 8 million cubic meters of wood for
industrial use (see 2/) in 2003 (see 3/). To address the challenges of
this large additional demand for domestic freight transport, the Oficina
de Planeamiento y Presupuesto has developed an infrastructure investment
plan (see 4/). The wood will originate in three principal production
regions, although some wood production occurs in virtually all sections
of the country. All of the additional wood produced in the country will
be exported by ship. The principal ports will be Montevideo, Fray
Bentos, La Paloma and possibly Paira but some exports may be expected
through a number of other small ports.
2.    Concept of the Proposed Project: To be able to move the forest
products in a cost-efficient way Uruguay must find the best intermodal
combination which will minimize the so called generalized economic cost
to the country and yet be acceptable to the producers and shippers who
are more interested in minimizing their financial (forest-to-market)
costs. In the computation of the generalized economic costs one must
take into account the negative impacts of a truck-only alternative such
as damage to pavements, congestion in port accesses and accidents
related to this type of movement. These costs are not of great interest
to the producer who is mainly interested in how much must be paid in
freight tariffs. If the appropriate road user charges structure is
chosen for the type of trucks which carry wood products, then the
transport operator will have to pass on these costs to the producers or
shippers and that should lead to a more balanced modal split between



truck and rail, assuming that rail performs as well as trucks do.
3.    Lessons Learned: The major lessons learned from previous projects
in Uruguay in the transport sector are: (i) the need to promote greater
private sector participation; (ii) policy for the sector must be
strengthened to promote multimodal integration and to minimize
distortions resulting from inefficient taxation, and physical and
financial coordination between modes; (iii) the tariff levels should
allow for full recovery of working costs and must be complemented by
financing mechanisms which cover the shortfall; (iv) demand levels
forecast should be carefully reviewed; and (v) availability of
counterpart funds must be assured to avoid costly construction delays.
4.    Rationale for Bank Involvement:. As presented to the Board on
November 30, 1993, a principal feature of the Bank's assistance strategy
for Uruguay is to support the private sector ability to take advantage
of an increasingly open economy through: (a) financial sector deepening;
(b) agricultural diversification; and (c) infrastructure development.
The proposed project would promote financial viability of public
enterprises and their reform, and would reduce Government subsidies
through better tariff policies and improved financial management.
5.    Project Objectives: The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) facilitate the cost-efficient transport of forestry products from
forest-to-port of exit through the rehabilitation of transport
infrastructure required; and (b) increase productivity of the road and
port sectors and improve efficiency of rail transport through greater
private sector participation.
6.    Project Description: The project would consist of two inter-related
components: (a) an Infrastructure and Equipment component to: (i)
rehabilitate the road network infrastructure serving the main plantation
areas; (ii) rehabilitate AFE's track infrastructure and equipment most
likely to be used by the forest products traffic; (iii)
build/rehabilitate the transfer stations between the several modes at
the plantation, railhead and ports and (iv) finance the maintenance of
departmental roads initiated in the Transport I project; (b) and an
Institutional and Policy Development component to help in (i)
reorganizing AFE and increasing private sector participation in its
operations and investments, especially in the movement of forest
products; and (ii) introducing a system of rail tariffs and road user
charges which reflects the actual costs incurred by each mode.
7.    Project Financing:   The overall cost of the proposed project was
estimated at US$152 million, of which US$140 million for the
infrastructure and equipment component (92w) and the remaining US$12
million for the institutional and policy development component. The Bank
would finance US$76 million (50w), the Government would finance US$46
million (30w) and US$30 million (20w) will be financed by    co-
financiers. The costs indicated include price and physical
contingencies.
8.    Project Implementation:   Project Implementation will be the
responsibility of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport (MPWT). The Roads Directorate (DNV) will
-2 -



have a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to implement its infrastructure
and equipment component under the overall supervision of PCU; AFE will
have its project implementation unit (PIU) for its rehabilitation works;
the PIU's staff will include among others a procurement specialist
familiar with Bank procedures to speed up the procurement process. This
process will start at the pre-appraisal stage during which pre-
qualification documents for the lots in the critical path would be
reviewed.
9.    Project Sustainability:   It is expected that the introduction of
private sector operations in railways and the control of truck
overloading will add to the sustainability of the transport sector by
reducing the subsidies paid to the railway and by decreasing road
maintenance costs.
10.   Poverty Category: Not applicable
11.   Environmental Impacts: The works included in the project are not
expected to have any significant negative impact on the environment and
the bidding documents for works will spell out the environmental good
practices to be respected by the contractors performing the works. The
project does not induce significant conversion of grasslands because no
new roads or rails will be built.
1/
Matures in 8-10 years for pulpwood use
2/
Industrial use is either for value added products such as saw logs, wood
chips or veneer, or for export as logs.
3/
Politica Y Legislacion Forestal - Incentivos Para La Forestacion, Dic,
1995
4/
Programa de Infraestructura de Transporte de Productos Forestales, Ago
1995
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 14, 1997.
- 3 -



