Page  1
July 3, 1997
Mr. Anatoly Chubais
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Ul. Ilyinka 9
Moscow, 103097
Russian Federation
Re:
Japanese Grant for Structural Adjustment Loan
Grant No. TF027162                                           
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank's agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred 
thousand US Dollars ($300,000) (the Grant) to the Russian Federation (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1.2 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Holt
Acting Director
Russian Federation Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ A. L. Kudrin, 
First Deputy 
Minister of the Russian Federation
Authorized Representative
Date: October 15, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the grant is to finance expert consulting services for the 
preparation of policy studies and sector analyses in the following areas: (i) fiscal 
reform; (ii) private sector development; (iii) natural monopoly reform; and (iv) 
capital markets reform.  The Grant may also be used for dissemination work in 
connection with the above reform targets.
Page  2
1.2.
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is intended are as follows:
Part A:
Fiscal Reform
(a) 
Reform of budgetary management, including multi-year budgeting, debt 
management, and procurement;
(b) 
Reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations, including the 
intergovernmental transfer system;
These initiatives are to be supported by local and foreign consultants and 
through the training of government officials.
Part B:
Private Sector Development
(a) 
Development of accounting standards;
(b)
Monitoring of reform indicators in urban real estate reform; and
(c)
Training of municipal officials in land use regulation.
Part C:
Natural Monopolies Reform
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of agencies for regulating natural 
monopolies, including housing services such as district heating, gas distribution and 
water/sewage enterprises.
Part D:
Capital Markets Reform
1.
Analytic support to further development of the Treasury Bill market; creation of 
a government debt register; and the establishment of a framework for the taxation of 
capital market transactions, as envisaged in the new draft tax code.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by March 31, 1998.  After 
that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
Page  3
