Page  1
March 20, 1998
His Excellency 
Lucio Cáceres Behrens 
Minister of Transportation and Public Works 
Ministry of Transportation and Public Works 
Rincon 561 esq. Ituzaingo 
Montevideo, Uruguay
Re:  URUGUAY: Forest Products Transport Project - Loan No. 4204-UR
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated July 1, 1997 entered into between 
República Oriental del Uruguay (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).
In response to the Borrower’s request to: (a) replace the terms "Foreign Loan 
and Foreign Loan Agreement" referred to in the Loan Agreement with the terms "JEXIM 
Loan and JEXIM Loan Agreement"; and (b) reallocate part of the Loan proceeds to comply 
with the requirement of the Export -Import Bank of Japan (the co-financier 
institution), the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
The Whereas Clause "(D)" is hereby modified to read as follows:
"(D)
by agreement dated December 26,1997 (the JEXIM Loan Agreement), 
the Export- Import Bank of Japan (the JEXIM) has agreed to make a loan (the 
JEXIM Loan) to the Borrower in an amount of $30,000,000 equivalent to assist 
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the JEXIM 
Loan Agreement; and".
2.
The terms "Foreign Loan and Foreign Loan Agreement" referred to in 
paragraph (h) of Section 5.01 are hereby replaced with the terms "JEXIM Loan and JEXIM 
Loan Agreement".
3.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in 
the annex to this Amendment Letter.
4.
Paragraph "2" of Schedule 1 is hereby deleted and therefore  paragraphs 
"3 and 4" of such Schedule are renumbered as paragraphs "2 and 3", respectively.
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original.  Upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this 
Amendment Letter, these amendments will become effective as of the date first above 
written.  Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
  AND DEVELOPMENT 
By /s/ Myrna Alexander 
Director 
Country Management Unit  
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay 
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By /s/ Lucio Cáceres Behrens
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 23, 1998 
Page  2
cc. 
Ing. Ruben Diaz Burci
President
Administracion Nacional de Puertos
Rambla 25 de agosto de 1825
No. 160
Montevideo, Uruguay
Ing. Victor Vaillant
President
Administracion de Ferrocarriles del Estado
La Paz 1095, Piso 2
Montevideo, Uruguay
