Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4204-UR
ANP Project Agreement
(Forest Products Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
Dated July 1, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4204-UR 
ANP PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS (ANP). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between República 
Oriental del Uruguay (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount equal to seventy six million Dollars 
($76,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that ANP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ANP, the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A.3 and B.4 of the Project 
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to ANP on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
WHEREAS  ANP, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Page  2
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01.  ANP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts 
A.3 and B.4 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, technical, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices, and in accordance with the Environmental Manual and the ANP Financial 
Targets, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such Part of the Project. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A.3 and B.4 of  the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to the Loan  Agreement. 
Section 2.03. ANP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the ANP Project Agreement and Parts A.3 and 
B.4 of the Project.
Section 2.04. ANP shall duly perform all its obligations under the ANP 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ANP shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating, terminating, waiving or failing to enforce the ANP Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) ANP shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of Parts A.3 and B.4 of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the ANP Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b)
ANP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.3 and B.4 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by ANP of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the ANP Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.06. ANP shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance 
Indicators, the carrying out of Parts A.3 and B.4 of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof.
Section 2.07. ANP shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1998: (i) enter into an 
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with an entity or entities of the private sector 
for the carrying out of the loading operations of logs in the port/rail interface of 
the port of Montevideo; and (ii) enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with an entity or entities of the private sector for the carrying out of loading 
operations of logs in the port of Fray Bentos; and (b) not later than December 31, 
1998: (i) complete the works in the intermodal transfer station located in the port of 
Montevideo; and (ii) complete the works for the loading areas in the port of Fray 
Bentos.
Section 2.08. (a) ANP shall establish,  and thereafter operate and maintain 
during the implementation of the Project a Project implementation unit (the ANP PIU) 
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, 
the responsibility of assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts A.3 and B.4 
of the Project.
(b)
ANP shall ensure that the ANP PIU is at all times headed by a coordinator 
and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications acceptable to the 
Bank.
Section 2.09. ANP shall, if applicable, include in the bidding documents for the 
carrying out of each ANP Subproject the obligation of the bidder to take (prior to the 
commencement of any works under such ANP Subproject) the necessary actions to address 
any potential negative environmental impact identified in the environmental assessment 
carried out under Part B.1 (c) of the Project.     
Section 2.10. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, ANP shall participate in the review referred to in Section 3.12 of the Loan 
Agreement. 
Page  3
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of ANP 
Section 3.01. ANP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, technical, financial, engineering and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. ANP shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
technical, financial, engineering and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. ANP shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) ANP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including separate accounts for the ports of Montevideo and Fray Bentos.
(b)
ANP shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ANP 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ANP thereof. 
Section 5.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  4
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For ANP:
Rambla 25 de Agosto de 1825
No. 160
Montevideo, Uruguay
 Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ANP, may be 
taken or executed by the President of ANP or such other person or persons as such 
President shall designate in writing, and ANP shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Montevideo, Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
By  /s/ Ruben Díaz 
Authorized Representative 
