Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10680-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
T .-.;        ,-< t 1-   -
>~~~~~~ ~~~~~~                        I    -        'i'- tiT{d-  
January 11, 1993
Country Department II
Infrastructure and energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lempiras(L)
US$1.00       =  5.40 Lempiras (September 14, 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                            British/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)        =         0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)             =         3.28 feet (ft)
I gram (g)              =         0.0022 pounds (lb)
i kilogram (kg)         =         2.20 pounds (lb)
i ton                   =         2,205 pounds
I cubic meter (MI)      =         6.29 barrel (bbl)
I cubic meter (M3)      =         35.32 cubic feet (ft' or SCF)
' cubic meter (MI)                264 U.S. gallons (gal.)
ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI               Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CBT                 Low Traffic Roads Model
DGC                 Directorate General of Roads of SECOPT
DGCA                Directorate General of Civil Aviation of SECOPT
DGCCA               Directorate General of Roads and Airports Maintenance of SECOPT
DGPS                Directorate General of Sectoral Planning of SECOPT
DGT                 Directorate General of Transport of SECOPT
ENP                 National Port Company
FNH                 Honduran National Railways
GOH                 Government of Honduras
HDM m               Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (Third Version)
ICAO                International Civil Aviation Organization
IDB                 Interamerican Development Bank
PURC                Public Utility Regulatory Commission
REMITRAN            Meetings of Central American Transport Ministers
SECOPT              Secretariat of Communications, Public Works and Transport
SECPLAN             Secretariat of Planning, Coordination and Budgeting
SSPF                Under Secretariat of Planning and Finance of SECOPT
TRR Co.             Tela Railway Company
TSEP                Transport Sector Investment Program
UMA                 SECOPT's Environmental Unit
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
VPD                 Vehicles per day



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABELrTATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDrT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...................................   i
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE ECONOMY  .......................   1
A. Background   .      .............................................    1
Macroeconomic Linkages  ....................................   1
The Honduran Transport System  ................................   2
B. Institutional Framework ........................................   3
- C. Main Sector Issues . ...........................................  4
Weaknesses in Planning and Regulation   ...........................   4
Environmental Issues  ...........          ............................   6
Highway Subsector Issues ....................................   8
Port Subsector Issues  .....................                                      11
Airport Subsector Issues  .....................   14
Railway Subsector Issues .....................   16
Il. THE PROJECT .....................  is
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement .....................   18
Lessons of Past Experience . .......................   18
Rationale of the Proposed Sector Project ............            .........   19
B. Project Objectives .........                  ............  19
C. Project Description .........                 ............  20
Policy Component .....................  20
Investment Component .....................   21
institutional Development and Technical Assistance Component ....       ......... 26
D. The Action Plans ............................................   29
Actions to be Taken ......................................... 29
E. Project Cost and Financing . ......................................  31
Project Costs  . ...........................................  31
Project Financing .    .........................................   31
F. Project Execution ............................................   33
implementation Arrangements ...........           .......................  33
Project Reporting ..........................................  33
Annual and Mid-term Reviews ...........          ........................  34
0. Procurement and Consultancy Services ........           ......................  34
H. Disbursements and Auditing .      ....................................  36
I. Economic Justification .........................................  37
J. Environmental Impact ..............................  38
K. Project Risks and Safeguards .............  39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Honduras June 29 to July 17,
1992. Mission members were Messrs./Mmes. Mirtha Pokorny (Task Manager), Guillermo Ruan
(Highway Engineer), Zvi Ra'anan (Port Specialist), Jose Baigorria (Railway Engineer); Robect
Mongtomery and Magdalena Mayorga (Consultants). It also incorporates tk findings of earlier
preparation work by Mr. Cesar Plaza (Environmental Specialist). Messrs. Edilberto Segura,
Paul Knotter and Ricardo Halperin are respectively the responsible Department Director, Project
Adzisor and Division Chief. Ms. Martha Leal assisted in the production of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



m. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO                        M       MAEONS  ...................DAT.  39
TABLES
Table 1.1: Distribution of Traffic between ports, 1975 and 1991  ........       .......      12
Table 2.1: Transport Sector Expenditure Program (1993-1996)  ...............            .   22
Table 2.2: IDA Financed Components ................................  24
Table 2.3: Summary of Technical Assistance and Training Component  ....             .......  28
Table 2.4: Estimated Financing Distribution by Major Donors .................  32
'Table 2.5: Procurement Method  ...................................  35
Table 2.6  Estimated Disbursement  .................................  37
ANNEKES
Annex 1: GOH'S Transport Sector Policy Declaration and Action Plan ....            .........  42
Annex 2: Istitutional Development Plan  ...............................  53
Annex 3: The Road Subsector ..............                ........................  68
Annex 4: The Bridge Department ............                ........................  81
Annex 5: The Ports Subsector ..............               ........................  93
Annex 6: Technical Assistance to the Aviation Subsector  ....................   126
Annex 7: The Railway Subsector ............                ........................ 135
Annex 8: Past Bank Group Lending .................................   141
Annex 9: Supervision Plan .................................. 147
Annex 10: Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursement ........              ................ 152
Annex 11: Economic Evaluation .............................. ...  153
MAP EBRD 24228



i
HXONDUTRAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILTATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic qf Honduras
Executing Agencies:         Secretariat of Communications, Public Works and
Transport (SECOPT); National Port Company (ENP); and Honduran
National Railway (FNH).
Benefidiaries:              Project benefits would accrue to the economy as a whole. The
reduction of transport costs expected from the project would increase
the competitiveness of Honduran goods and result in increased
economic activities and households income. Also, the new public-
private sector mix supported under the project is expected to have a
positive fiscal impact, supporting the Government's efforts for
sustainable growth and increasing Honduras' attractiveness for
investments and subsequent job creation.
Credit Amoumt:              SDR 46.9 million (US$65 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Repayment in 40 years, including 10 years of grace with a charge of
0.75% per year.
Project Objectives:         The project has two sets of major objectives: (a) to help improve
the institutional and regulatory framework of the sector so as to: (i)
encourage greater private provision of transport services; (ii)
establish investment and pricing policies based on efficiency and
equity considerations; (iii) integrate into SECOPT's work the
systematic consideration of environmental concerns; (iv) strengthen
SECOPT's planning and regulatory capability; (v) restructure the
port subsector and redefine the role of the ENP; (vi) design and
implement a strategy for the development of the airport subsector;
and (vii) rationalize railway operations; and (b) to help improve and
rehabilitate transport infrastructure in the main trade corridors in
support of the Government's efforts for export-led growth and
reduce the backlog of deferred maintenance. Achievement of these
objectives would remove bottlenecks to trade, reduce transportation
costs, attract private investment to the transport sector (reducing the
need for public funding) and help redirect the focus of the state away
from the provision of services.
Project Descrption:         The project would have three components: (i) the pic
is reflected in the Government's Transport Sector Policy Declaration,
which spells out a medium-term strategy for the sector, and in the
related Action Plans specifying the measures io be taken to address



ii
the most important sector issues; (ii) the investment coniv,mpnn (total
cost US$79.6 million, IDA financing US$61.7 m;llion) would
finance a time slice of the Government's 1993-1996 Transport Sector
Investment Program amounting to US$545.7 million, and consists
of: (a) rehabilitation of about 150 km of roads in the main export
corridors; (b) periodic maintenance of ahoutt 1800 km of the road
network;(c) construction and rehabilitation of about 1000 m of
bridges; (d) rehabilitation of about 1000 km of feeder roads in
agriculturally rich areas; and (e) rehabilitation of the runway,
taxiway and apron of the San Pedro Sula airport. The institutional
development and technical assistance component (total cost US$3.3
million, all IDA financed) would provide technical assistance to: (a)
strengthen the capabilities of SECOPT's Under Secretariat of
Planning and Finance and the Directorate of Traasport to carry out
project evaluation and implement a regulatory framework consistent
with the new public-private sector mix; (b) expand the role of the
Environmental Unit to encompass all transport modes and effectively
integrate environmental aspects into SECOPT's investment decisions;
(c) support implementation of the Action Plans in the areas related to
privatization/divestiture measures for the port and airport subsectors;
and (d) strengthen SECOPT's capacity for bridge management.
Project Benefits:           The project is expected to support the introduction of major policy
and structural reforms and help strengthening the sector's institutions
through the implementation of the various Action Plans covering a
wide range of policy and institutional improvements. By addressing
sector specific issues and overriding institutional weaknesses, the
project would contribute to enhance Honduras comparative
advantages in international trade and substantially reduce transport
related distortions in the economy. Direct benefits of the project
would be derived from: (a) increasing the quality and cost-
effectiveness of transport services through: (i) improving the
efficiency and accountability in the road subsector; (ii) making ports
and airport services more responsive to user needs; and (iii)
eliminating intermodal distortions by phasing out railway services;
(b) strengthening sector planning and policy formulation; and (c)
improving the sustainability of resource use through the development
of a technical foundation for an environmentally sound transport
arrangement. The project's benefits would therefore go well beyond
the returns on specific individual investments.
Risks and Safeguards:       There are no important technical risks or major environmental
issues, as no large projects with potentially significant environmental
impact are being planned. Because of the project's policy emphasis,
there are risks related to the Government's commitment and ability
to implement the needed institutional and policy reforms. These are
deemed acceptable in view of Honduras' generally good performance
under the ongoing structural and sectoral adjustment operations. Up-
front actions in support of these reforms, such as firther reduction
of SECOPT's personnel, closure of the La Ceiba Railway line and
appointment of consultants to implement the ports



iii
privatization/divestiture program should reduce these risks. In
addition, specific targets have been identified in the process of sector
reform and their achievement wi1l be closely monitored.
Nevertheless, the risk of funding shortages cannot be discounted, and
may lead to slower than planned implementation cf the investment
program. Annual project implementation re-views would ensure that
projects with the highest rates of return are given priority.
Economic Rate o! Return:             The cut-off rate of reurn for the inclusion of investments in the
expenditure program is 12%, except for investments in access roads
with a strong social impact, not exceeding 10% of total expenditures
in access roads which wottld be subject to less stringent economic
(but standard environmental) criteria. A sample of projects reviewed
during appraisal had rates of return in the 12-50% range.
Program CostY:l
(US$ million)
1993-1996
|PRCKGRAM COMPONENTS                                    IO         Foreip       TOTAL
|ROAD INVESTMENTS
-Road Constuotion                                          4.68        7.03        11.71
-Road Improvement                                         15.50       23.24        38.74
-Road Paving                                              25.57       38.39        63.96
-Bridg Construction and Rehabilitation                     4.75        7.13        11.88
-Road Rehabilitation                                      47.80       71.72       119.52
-Periodio Maintenanc                                      38.74       59.66        98.40
SUB TOrAL                                   137.04      207.17       344.21
AIRPORT INVESTMENTS
-San Pedro Sula-Runway Rehabilitation                      4.80        7.20        12.00
-San Pedro Sula-Pasenger and Fr-ght Terminal              13.20       30.80        44.00
-Roatin-passngerTerminal                                   1.15        2.85         4.00
SUB TOTAL                                    19.15       40.85        60.00
PORT INVESTMENTS
-Puerto CortesExpansion Container Termina                  3.20        4.80         8.00
-Puerto Cortes-Constructionof Re-Ro facility               1.60        2.40         4.00
SUB TOTAL                                     4.80        7.20        12.00
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES                          14.55       32.85        47.40
TOTAL BASE LINE COST                                     175.54      288.07       463.61
Physical Contingencies                                    16.10       25.52        41.62
Prlce Contingencies                                       15.55       24.93        40.47
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                                       207.19      338.52       545.70
I/     Costs of the IDA finaned components of the 1993-1996 Transport Sector Investmn Program are
presented in Table 2.2.



iv
Program Miancug (US$ milUons):
l        Donor            Local   Foreign    Total
IGIDA                   26.0      39.0       65 0
IDB                    76.0    114.0       190.0
CABEI                   120       18.0       30.0
USAIID                   8.0      12.0       20.0
Government of Spain     14.4     35.6        50.0
Government of Taiwan     8.0      12.0       20.0
Other                    3.6       5.4        9.0
Central Government      48.4     72.6       121.0
Unidendfied             10.8     26.3        40.7
Total                  207.2    338.5      545.7
timatea I Disbursemenh (US$ nMllion):
g              ~~~~~I
BANK FY        1993        1994       1995       1996      1997
Annual       __5.7_          13.3      21.6       14.6       9.8__
Cumlative       95.7 1o0               40.6  T   55.2       65.0  l
I    CoreSponds to the US$4 milion ial deposit in the Special Account plu2 retwact  finncn Of UP to
US$1.7 mnillion for eligile expnditures incurrd after July 31, 199.



HONDURAS
TRANSi'ORT SECTOR REHABLITATION PROJECT
I. TH3E TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE ECONOMY
A. Background
Macroeconomic Linkages
1.1     For many years, Honduras' development strategy was based oin import  ustitution behind
high protective barriers and on extensive state intervention involving subsidies, price controls and tax
incent;ves, all of which created strong price distortions and encouraged low productivity. In the early
1980s, a steep decline in world agricultural commodity prices and sharply rising international interest
rates and oil prices precipitated an economic crisis. In response, the Government resorted to
expansionary policies which stimulated economic growth but intensified pressures on tha balance of
payments and contributed to the acceleration of inflation. By end-1989, the parallel market exchange
rate was double the official rate, international reserves had been virtually exhausted, and Honduras
had accumulated arrears of about US$750 million on its external debt (including about US$165
million to multilateral agencies).
1.2     The administration that took office in early 1901) set as its first priorities economic
stabilization and the immediate restoration of financial reiations with multilateral agencies. In
addition, the Government initiated a bold program of structural reforms with the aim of achieving
sustainable export-oriented economic growth. The stabilization program comprised a sharp
devaluation of the lempira, sizable adjustment to public utility rates, tax increases (including the
introduction of temporary export taxes to absorb the windfall gains associated with the devaluation),
and major cuts in government expenditures. The Government's structural reform agenda aims to
reduce the complex regulatory framework that pervades the economy, encourage private sector
investment through reform of the trade and exchange rate regimes, deregulate piices and markets, and
reform the financial sector. Other important objectives of the Government's economic program are
the reduction of the size of the public enterprise sector through privatization and/or leasing
arrangements and an increase ;n the efficiency of public enterprises that remain state-owned.
1.3     In the transport sector, the Government is committed to achieve an efficient industry driven
by market forces. To this end, Government efforts seek to increase the role of the private sector in
the provision of transport service and to reduce the regulatory burden, maintaining only those
regulations justified by non-competitive markets and/or safety and environmental considerations.
Present aims, which the proposed project would support, are to increase road maintenance by
contract, rationalize railway services, including closing non-economic lines; reorganize the port
subsector and encourage the establishment of a number of privately-operated terminals to handle a
significant share of the traffic; upgrade airport facilities and privatize their operation; and free the
trucking industry from restrictive entry or service regulations. The interface of transport policies and
environmental issues, including rapid deforestation, soil erosion, and water and air pollution, is also
an integral aspect of the Government's sectoral policy. NMeasures the Government is taking or will be
taking to integrate environmental considerations into transport sector policies are discussed in
subsequent sections of this report. Annex 1 presents the Government's Policy Declaration Statement



outlining the strategy for the sector and specific action plans that will be implemented in connection
with the proposed project (para. 2.9)
The Houduran Transport System
1.4     The Honduran transport system .s cunceptually simple (see Map IBRD 24228) and
comprises: (i) a highway network which includes about 2,400 km of paved roads and 11,700 km of
unpaved reads; (ii) a port system dominated by Puerto Cortes, followed by the increasingly used
Puerto Castilla and the under-utilized Puerto San Lorenzo, the onlv Honduran port on the Pacific
coast; (iii) a small agriculture-oriented railway system used mainly to transport. bananas in the north;
and (iv) four international airports, only two of them (in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula) with
significant international traffic.
1.5     Distances in Honduras are relatively short and the terrain is rugged. Economic activities
are spread widely over the national territory. Land suitable for agriculture represents about 25% of
the total area and is located in several valley systems and in the northern coastal plain. Forests are
largely concentrated in the Olancho area. while coffee is produced in the hilly areas of central and
western Honduras between 700 and 1,200 m above sea level. Cattle raising is common in central and
western Honduras and the northern coastal plain. Banana plantations are located in the Sula valley
and the northern coastal plain. The Sula valley dominates the regional economy centered in San
Pedro Sula, some 60 km from Puerto Cortes, where most of the agricultural and industrial
development of Hondurvq has taken place. There is an almost total reliance on roads and road
transport, which accounts for over 95% of total domestic freight (ton - km) and nearly all non-urban
passenger traffic of around 5 billion passenger-km annually. The primary road network is centered in
the cities of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, with a feeder system that connects the major areas of
economic activity to these centors. Value added by the transport sector has remained at about 7% of
GDP for the last ten years.
1.6     A relatively new economic development in Honduras is the growth of non-traditional
exports, i.e., perishable agricultural production and manufacturing in the Free Zones of Puerto Cortes
and Choloma. With Honduras entering global sourcing for international markets, the reliability of
transport services, which are the main consideration in the transport of high-value low-volume goods,
will become increasingly important. The improvement of reliability will require the appropriate
regulatory framework to encourage the development of transport operators, such as freight
forwarders. In terms of infrastructure needs to attend this new demand, the major shortconming is the
lack of adequate storage facilities in the major airports, an issue that the Government is addressing
through planned investments in San r-VJro Sula (para 2.11). Further investments in cold storage and
other specialized facilities should bal developed by the private sector as both ports and airports become
more open to private participation.
1.7     The future development and improvement of transport infrastructure will be shaped by: (a)
Honduras' heavy reliance on the export of agricultural commodities and the development of the
tourism industry, which are sensitive to both the cost and the reliability of domestic transportation
facilities, and (b) the growth of intra-regional trade due to increased economic integration.
Investments in the sector in the short to medium term should emphasize: (a) the improvement,
rehabilitation and maintenance of neglected road and airport infrastructure; and (b)
modernization/expansion of some airports and specialized port facilities. The Government's 1993-



-3-
1996 Transport Sector Investment Program (ISIP) (para. 2.11) is based on these objectives. The
Government, in line with its strategy of increasing the role of t!e private sector in transport services,
is assessing possible schemes to attra. private investments to the sector. The main focus is on
ancillary infrnstructure and equipment for specialized activities in ports and ahpirts. Investments in
the road subsector, however, will continue to be financed through public funds since low traffic
densities in most of the network makes toll collection unattractive for the recovery of capital
investment.
B. Iastitutional Framework
1.8     The transport sector is formally under the jurisdiction of thK Secretariat of Communications,
Public Works and Transport (SECOPT), which is directly responsible for the h ghway and aviation
subsectors, and indirectly (through the participation of the Minister in the respective Boards of
Directors), for approval of investment and operational decisions in ports and railways. For highways
there are two general directorates, construction (Directorate General of Roads - DGC) and
maintenance (Directorate General of Roads and Airports Maintenance - DGCCA).
1.9     The National Port Authority (ENP) and the Honduran National Railways (FNR.) are
parastatal organizations with a high degree of independence. The Board of Directors of ENP
comprises the Ministers of Economy (who acts as President of the Board), of SECOPT, of Natural
Resources, and of Planning, Coordination and Budgeting (SECPLAN), and includes represerntatives of
the Navy, the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, organized labor and the national shipowners and
agents. The General Manager of ENP advises the Government on port policy and there is no other
Government office specifically concerned with port policy or maritime issues. FNH is run by a
Board of Directors presided over by the Minister of SECOPT and composed of representatives of the
Ministries of Economy and Finance, the Central Bank, SECPLAN, the Chamber of Commerce of Sari
Pedro Su!a and the railroad union.
1.10    Honduran civil aviation responsibilities, although under the jurisdiction of SECOPT, are
distributed among several Government Agencies, including: (a) the General Directorate of Civil
Aviation (DGCA), responsible for airport planning, meteorology, airport administration, air transport,
tariffs setting, and all technical services (including aid to navigation, and communications); (b) the
General Directorate of Urbanism and Civil Works, Department of Airport Infrastiucture, responsible
for the studies, engineering, costing and implementation of all new works in civil aviation
infrastructure; and (c) the DGCCA, responsible for all infrastructure maintenance. Although DGCA
provides the billing for much of its services, the Ministry of Finaace is responsible for collection.
Since there is no feed-baclr r Ystem, the DGCA has no way to know if its bills are being honored.
This is a poor system that .ids to lack of commercial accountability (para. i.45).
1.11    Within SECOPT, the Directorate General of Sectoral Planning (DGPS) was responsible for
the planning, control and budgeting of investments in the transport and communication sectors until
the creation in August 1992 of the Under Secretariat of Planning and Finance (SSPF) (para. 1.14).
The Directorate General of Transport (DGT) is responsible for regulations and controls related to the
freight and passengers road industries.



-4-
1.12    The sector organizational arrangements, with the exception of the airports subsector, are
adequate in general. In practice, however, SECOPT bas had little involvement with ENP and FNH,
intermodal planning and coordination are weak (para. 1. 13), and DGT is mostly a permit issuing
office with little capabiRity to assess the impact of different regulatory and pricing policies (para.
1. 15). Thu, Government is reviewing the organization of the sector, and intends to provide SECOPT
with a clear mandate as the normative, regulatory and monitoring agency for all transport modes. In
practice, this will entail the appointment of the Minister of SECOPT as the head uf the Board of
Directors of ENP which is expected to take place during 1993. It also requires strengthening
SECOPT's functions for transport planning, coordination, project evaluation and policy analysis.
The airport subsector, however, needa a complete redefinition of the institutional, legal and regulatory
setting under which it will operate in the future. Strengthening transport planning and coordination
and transforming the aitports into financially self-sufficient entities operating on a comnmercial basis
are among the main issues to be addressed under tbe proposed project.
C. Main Sector 'Issues
Weaknesses in Planning and 'egulation
1.13    SECOPT's planning performance has traditionally been weak due to: (a) insufficient
commitment to planning arising from politic-l instability and - past succession of Govermnents with
short-term objectives; (b) inadequate in-house planning capacity; and (c) weak planning capabilities
in the modal agencies. As a result, its sectoral planning directorate, DGPS, orty fulfilled marginally
the role assigned to it and was functioning mostly as an advisLry body carrying out specific
assignments at the Minister's request.
1.14   lThe Government, recognizing the need to establish an effective system for planning and
programming transport sector investments and to advance further the efforts already made in the
planning and programming of road works (para. 1.28), carried out a comprehensive institutional
analysis of SECOPT. The analysis focused primarily on the role of DGPS and its relationship and
interaction with the operating units within SECOPT, as well as with SECPLAN and the Ministries of
Economy and Finance, and identified the principal gaps in terms of the activities DGPS should be
performing and of the human resources necessary to carry them out. The Institutional Development
Program, consisting of technical assistance and training, was designed to help SECOPT bridge the
gaps in its capabilides. As a first step, SECOPT decided to raise the hierarchical location of the
planning, programming and budgeting functions within the Ministry and established, through Decree
41-92 of August 11, 1992, the SSPF. This Decree was subsequently amended to empower SSPF to
carry out broader activities for investment decisions in the sector. DGPS was dismantled and its staff
either left the Ministry or was reassigned to other units, in order to provide SSPF the opportunity of a
fresh start with a small cadre of qualified professionals. The Government is in the process of
appointing the Vice-Minister in charge of SSPF. Prior to credit effectiveness SSPF would be in
operation, meaning that the Vice-Min;ster and at least one economist and one engineer each have been
appointed (para. 3.2(a)). The Institutional Development Program (Annex 2) includes technical
assistance and traning to SSPF to design and implement an organizational structure suitable to carry
out its functions. The Prograrm would be implemented in two phases: (a) a first phase in which
participatory methods would be used for the diagnosis and design of improved systems and
procedures and to define SSPF's organization and staffing needs; and (b) an implementation phase.



-s-
The main focus is on: (a) extending SECOPI'3 planning functions to ivclude preparation of
pluriannual transport invesmnt plans based on sound economic, technical and eavironmental
considerations; (b) developing the neceary planning and project evaluation tools at the ministerial
levels; and (c) assisting the modal agencies to strengthen their planning capacity. Ihis program is at
the core of the institutional development actions supported under the proposed project. Agreement on
the tems of reference and timing for its techical assistance and training component was reached
dureng negotiations (para. 2.21). Progress in implementing the Instiutional Development Program
winl be monitored during annual and mid-term reviews (para. 2.34).
1.1S    DCrr, SECOPT's transport directorate, is responsible for the planning, organization,
regulation and control of freight and passenger road services (urban and interurban) and the control of
axle load and vehicle dimensions. In its present form, DGT does not have the necessary capao.ty to
discharge its responsibilities in a satisfactory manner. Its main weakness is lack of qualified staff and
of the basic information and analytical tools required to define and evaluate different transport
policies. One of the main priorities for the present administration is to develop DGT's capacity for
policy analysis and design, and for the administration of transport regulations. The present legal
frs aework for the provision of freight transport services, although seldom enforced, allows for
excessive Government involvement in the market. In particular, own-account transport by non-
transport firms are prohibited and for-hire services require specific route and product licensesv'. In
the case of urban transport, the present subsidizad bus fare system, which is costing the Government
about US$8.5 million per year, is highly regressive. To make a daily journey to their informal jobs
or to the market, the poorest peple of Tegucigalpa, who tend to be confined in areas of higher slopes
where buses do not circulate, rely on smaller non-subsidized public vehicles. Thus, they pay for
their trips about three times more than other public transport users.
1.16    Transport regulations are being revised in order to limit government intervention to those
aspects related to environmental and safety concerns and to regulation of urban transport services to
ensure public services in low density areas and affordable transport to the lowest income groups. In
connection with the proposed project, the Government has stated in its Policy Declaration Statement
and related Action Prans (Anneu 1 and para. 2.23) its intention to revise the present Transport Law
and related regulations and the curent system of urban transport subsidies, which is not properly
targeted to the lowest income groups. Progress in iMplementing legal and pricing changes in the
sector would be monitored during the anmnal and mid-term project implementation reviews
(para. 2.34). The project, through the Istitonal Development Program, would also assist SECOPT
to strengthen DGT's role in road transport regulation by providing technical assistance to: (a) redefine
the role of DGT in light of a new regulatory framework; (b) help design and implement the necessary
data base on traffic, vehicle fleet age and composition, and road safety; and (c) develop the necessary
methodologies for the evaluation of diferent urban transport pricing schemes and subsidies.
1/      Freight ad pamuar trasort n in the hands of private operator. Entry to the industry requires
licnsing ftom DOfT, wih ao n  rates for he tansoit of fuel and cement, and for psengr
ervices. Althouh tee are rgatios regading roouts nd tpe of goods to be tsported by oach
operatr, DOIT seldom ef     them. oTheefore, except for the coment and fuel makets, the industy i
qui competv.



-6-
Environmental Issues
1.17    Current construction rules and regulations in the transport sectoIt were enacted over 30
years ago and have not been updated to incorporate measures to mitigate potential enviromnental
impacts caused by construction or rehabilitation of civil works. To a large extent, the lack of
regulations in the sector stems from the fact that environmental legislation is still in its infancy in
Honduras and that there is no institutional framework for this purpose. A proposed new
environmental law (Anteproyecto de Ley General del Medio Ambiente) was submitted to Congress in
October 1992 and is expected to be approved in early 1993. This would be an umbrella-type
legislation under which sectoral laws and regulations would have to be designed and established. The
proposed law would give autonomous status to the central environmental regulatory agency, the
National Environmental Commission (CONAMA), which would be responsible for enforcing the
proposed law and for helping to establish norms for all sectors. The Bank, through the Institutional
Development Fund (IDF), is providing financing for technical assistance to CONAMA, to train its
staff and help it to develop norms and procedures. The Environmental Unit in SECOPT (UMA),
with technical assistance to be provided under the project supported Institutional Development Plan
(para. 1.25), is expected to play an instrumental role in helping CONAMA to develop the regulatory
framework related to transport environmental impacts.
1.18    The transport sector faces a number of environmental issues. The most obvious and serious
one in the roads subsector is the invasion of the right of ways along main highways by temporary
shops and housing. Aside from safety factors, the consequence is that solid waste is dumped into
drainage ditches and eventually obstructs drainage canals and pollutes rivers, streams and wetlands.
Also, soil erosion in road embankments is common because plants species used for cover are
inadequate for the type of soils present. Moreover, deforestation in the upper and lower watersheds
increases floods beyond the natural carrying capacity of rivers, and roads and bridges are destroyed
during the rainy season. Inadequate coordination with other institutions, such as the Forestry
Developmexnt Corporation (COHDEFOR), prevents or delays reforestation of upper watersheds and of
areas used as sources of road building materials.
1.19    To address the environmental problems of the road subsector, in 1991 SECOPT established
an environmental unit (UMA) attached to DGC. This unit, however, has not been officially approved
and is not yet fully operational. Its main functions would be to assist DGC to incorporate
environmental considerations into the design of new roads and into the rehabilitation of existing ones.
To perform this function the unit would assist DGC to classify road investments according to potential
environmental effects and to commission environmental assessments (EA) to private firms for those
investments considered to have a severe environmental impact.
1.20    So far UMA's capacity to carry out its functions has been minimal since it has no staff
permanently assigned to it, except for one part-time consultant. Because it has not been officially
established and lacks internal procedures, it has difficulty reviewing and influencing proposed road
investments that may have questionable environmental merits and may not protect natural resources
adequately. SECOPT relies on consultants to carry out Eas or to advise it on major environmental
issues. Professional staff, contractors and consultants lack technical training and experience in the
2/      Roadways LAw of 1959.



,reparation, analysis and execution of impact assessments. This problem is further aggravated by the
lack of baseline information and standards regarding environmental conditions. Thus, environmental
studies tend to be general in scope and recommendations lack specificity and quantitative analysis.
1.21    To comply with environmental requirements of external lending institutions, UMA has
helped DGC prepare terms of reference for environmental assessments of road works to be carried
out with external financing. However, it does not have the capacity to monitor implementation of
remedial or mitigating actions recommended in the Eas.
1.22    While UMA, if properly staffed, would help DGC address environmental problems related
specifically with the roads subsector, it needs to expand its role to handle the potential adverse
environmental impact of activities in SECOPT's other General Directorates involved in road and
airport maintenance, civil aviation, and urban civil works. These directorates may sometimes
introduce their own rules and regulations, which might adversely impact the environment. In addition,
some decentralized entities with close institutional links with SECOPT, such as ENP and FNH, are
responsible for activities that influence resource management and that may have an adverse impact on
the environment.
1.23    To deal with environmental matters from a sectorai standpoint, the environmental unit
should be centrally located within SECOPT's organizational structure, and should be placed at a high
level in the hierarchy to enable it to influence the decision making process and to obtain sufficient
budgetary support for proper monitoring of environmental protection measures. The unit should be
in a position to screen proposed investments before they are incorporated into an institution's
program. Taking these considerations into account, and as a result of the institutional analysis carried
out during project preparation, the Government has decided to relocate and properly staff the present
UMA under the SSPF (para 1.24).
1.24    The main responsibilities of the UMA would be: (a) reviewing and clearing all investment
subprojects of SECOPT and of its decentralized entities before a civil works contract is advertised for
bidding; (b) preparing Environmental Guidelines to be used by SECOPT's operational divisions and
by civil works contractors; and (c) supervising the preparation of Eas by consultants and monitoring
compliance with Eas recommendations during implementation. Detailed terms of Reference for the
UMA and its staffing plan are presented in Annex 2. Formal establishment of UMA under SSPF
and adequate staffing of the unit, according to its staffing plan, will be a condition of credit
effectiveness. (Para. 3.2(b)).
1.25    Staff training in environmental protection would be an important element of SECOPT's
Institutional Development Plan, and agreement on the Terms of Reference for this training
component was reached during negotiations (para. 2.21). The training program would include
seminars, workshops, and international study trips. Consultants would be recruited for long-term
assignments to assist UMA to: (a) screen and rank investments for potential environmental impact; (b)
design EA formats to meet domestic and foreign legal requirements; (c) establish techniques for
conducting rapid environmental inventories and analyses; (d) define and interpret environmental
impacts; and (e) prepare terms of reference for consultants and bidding documents for contractors.



-8 -
Highway Subsector Issues
1.26    Background. Honduras' national road network of 14,100 km of all-weather roads serves
the country reasonably well. However, the ecologically fragile northeast, with only 246 km of roads,
is less well served. The Northern Highway, which connects Tegucigalpa with San Pedro Sula (the
second largest city in the agriculturally rich Sula Valley) and with Puerto Cortes, Honduras' main
port, is the country's road traffic backbone.
1.27    The Pan American Highway and the Western Highway (which begins in Chamelecon in the
North and serves the Northwest) are the main corridors through Central America. Only the former
has consistent design standards on both side of the border. The roads from Guatemala and El
Salvador connecting to the Western Highway are unpaved and in poor condition. As part of the
current efforts to increase regional economic integration, the transport ministers of Central America
and Panama have created a permanent forum for addressing the main transport bottlenecks to the flow
of inter-regional trade. The Meeting of Ministers of Transport (REMIIRAN) has already identified
the need to upgrade international road connections, mainly in the countries bordering Honduras. The
1993-1996 TSIP supported under the proposed project includes investments to rehabilitate the main
corridors that connect Honduras to Guatemala, El Salvador and Nicaragua (para. 2.1 1). Details on
the road subsector are presented in Annex 3.
1.28    Highway Planning. It was not until 1991 that SECOPT made significant progress in
introducing planning tools in the evaluation and selection of road reconstruction, rehabilitation and
maintenance projects. In mid-1991, DGCCA, assisted by the Roads Directorate of Chile's Ministry
of Public Works, and by individual consultants, implemented the Highway Design and Maintenance
Standards Model, Version IH (HDM-l). SECOPT is now screening projects on the basis of
economic rates of return and organizing the justifiable projects in a pluriannual road investment and
maintenance program. The responsibility for the HDM unit is being transferred to SSPF. To ensure
an adequate flow of technical information from the operational directorates to SSPF, and to improve
coordination between DGC and DGCCA, SSPF is to create a Planning Committee, headed by its
Vice-Minister, with the participation of the Directors of Roads and Maintenance, and the Vice-
Ministers of Public Works and Transport. The main functions of this Planning Committee are
described in Annex 2, para. 4. Transfer of the HDM unit to SSPF and creation of the Planning
Committee are part of the Institutional Development Plan supported under the project and will take
place during the first phase of the project financed technical assistance for strengthening planning and
coordination (para. 2.20(a), and Annex 2).
1.29        Similar efforts are being made in the planning and evaluation of feeder road projects.
In late 1991, DGCCA, with consultant assistance, implemented Version 3.0 of the CBT (Caminos de
Bajo Transito) Model to be used to evaluate feeder roads with traffic volumes under 50 vehicles/day.
As with HDM HI, SSPF will become responsible for planning and programming feeder road works.
1.30    Highway Maitenance. The Honduran road network deteriorated during the past decade
due to inadequate maintenance levels, weak institutional capabilities, and relaxation of axle load
regulations. While insufficient maintenance funding were, to a large extent, the result of the fiscal
crisis of the late 1980s (road expenditures fell in real terms by 12% between 1988 and 1990), the
problem was compounded by an unbalanced allocation of funds between maintenance and investment
and the allocation of funds to non-productive labor in DGCCA. The current administration is taking
steps to correct deficiencies: (a) axle load regulations are being tightened and will be reviewed by a



-9-
study under an ongoing IDB loan3'; (b) maintenance budgets have been increased over the last two
years to reduce the backlog of deferred maintenance-between 1990 and 1991, expenditures on road
maintenance more than doubled in real terms and the allocation of funds for road rehabilitation almost
tripled (Annex 3). In addition, the Government is studying the possibility of creating a Road Fund to
secure adequate financing for road maintenance (para. 1.34) and; (c) DGCCA is being restructured to
increase private sector participation in road maintenance-this entails a radical change in focus and a
large reduction in staff. The target is to reduce the staff to only 1,700 by 1994, compared to 5,000 in
19894'. This reduced staff will be made responsible for maintaining one third of the network-the
remaining two thirds will be contracted out to the private sector. The maintenance equipment fleet
has been reduced and about half of the 1,100 units have been either auctioned or sold as scrap.
Progress in further reduction of redundant labor in DGCCA would be monitored through annual and
mid-term reviews against annual staff reduction targets (para. 2.34) agreed upon during negotiations
(para. 1.32).
1.31    To adapt to this aggressive shift in maintenance practices, DGCCA will need to develop
new administrative and managerial skills in the areas of contract management, preparation and
evaluation of bidding documents, methods of payment, supervision, and development of maintenance
programs. Training in these areas will be provided under the ongoing IDB loan. The loan also
provides technical assistance to strengthen DGC and DGCCA, establish operational and control
systems consistent with the new policy of involving the private sector in road maintenance, and
develop a maintenance management information system that will enable measurement of DGCCA's
physical and financial performance and thus help increase its accountability. These objectives are
contained in the Government's Action Plan for the highway subsector (para. 2.24 and Annex 1).
Progress in the achievement of these objectives would be monitored during the annual and mid-term
project implementation reviews (para. 2.34).
1.32    The Government is committed to ensure the sustainability of the benefits expected to be
derived from the substantial investments being made to rehabilitate the road network and bring it to
maintainable conditions. This in turn requires adequate funding for road maintenance and more
efficient use of available resources. The Government has already approved for 1993, a road
maintenance budget of US$36 million equivalent, about 28% above the 1992 budget. The target is to
reach, by 1996, budgetary allocations of US$45 million equivalent per year to cover: (i) 100% of the
maintenance needs of the paved network; (ii) 100% and 60%, respectively, of the routine and
periodic maintenance of gravel roads; and (iii) 60% of the routine and periodic maintenance of feeder
roads. This implies allocation of US$40 million equivalent in 1994 and US$42 million equivalent in
1995. Interim targets will be monitored during the annual and mid-term project implementation
reviews (para. 2.34). During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the Government's
commitment to carry out the Action Plan for the highway subsector and that the Government will: (i)
3/      In December 1991, the llDB approved a US$110 million loan to Honduras for the rehabilitafion of the road
network. The histitutional component of the project includes: (i) strengthening DOC and DGCCA
capabilities to carry out road wors by contract; (ii) improving pavement managemont including the
implementation of a modem system of axle-load controls; (iii) reviewing road user charges and
establishing a system for fimncing road maintenance; and (iv) improving engineering techniques and
developing standard manuals.
DGCCA has already redvu.-d its staff by 1,000 in 1990, 400 in 1991, and 839 in 1992.



- 10-
allocate each year the necessary funds for road maintenance, (ii) maintain its road network, and (iii)
continue the staff reduction of DGCCA, all according to the schedule set forth in the key project
indicators presented in Table 1 of Annex 9 (para. 3.1(a)).
1.33    One of the reasons for past neglect of road maintenance in Honduras is the allocation of
funds to politically visible projects, such as new road construction, and maintaining redundant staff on
the payroll. With road construction budgets already cut to a minimum however, and budget resources
restricted in the other transport subsectors, there are limited opportunities for resource transfers
between the subsectors. Also, the shift to road maintenance by contract, and the award of pluriannual
contracts, is expected to "lock in" funds for maintenance activities to reduce the potential for
missallocations within the annual road budget. Given the Government's need to maintain a sound
fiscal framework, the question arises as to whether road users are adequately covering the costs of
expanding, upgrading and maintaining the network through various road-related taxes and whether
there are opportunities for increasing revenues, minimizing the fiscal impact of the increase in the
maintenance budget. A review of 1990 road user charges in Honduras shows that total revenues from
all road users are insufficient to cover total road construction and maintenance needs. More
importantly, trucks were not even covering the marginal road costs (maintenance costs) attributable to
their use of the highway network. The design and implementation of a system of user charges that
take into consideration the damage that each type of vehicle causes to the network, will be part of a
study that SECOPT will carry out with IDB's assistance (para. 1.34).
1.34    The normal annual maintenance expenditures required, once the Government implements its
road rehabilitation program and the rnetwork is in good condition, were estimated at US$45 million
equivalent using the optimal road maintenance policies derived from the application of the HDM
model.  These levels are well above past maintenance expenditures, which were approximately an
average of US$11 million per year during the 1988/1991 period. Taxes paid by the users, mainly
through taxes on fuel, new vehicles, annual registration fees, etc. (but excluding general taxation),
amounted to US$34 million equivalent or 72% of the estimated needed maintenance expenditures.
About 60% of the revenue were generated by automobiles and less than 30% by trucks, in inverse
proportion to the allocation in 1990 of road maintenance costs based on axle and vehicle
equivalencies. It is not possible, however, to draw conclusions regarding the general level of user
charges from the results in 1990. Since the Government controls fuel prices in the domestic market,
tax revenues from oil products become a residual which fluctuates with the price of imported crude.
In 1989, user charges from this "variable tax" amounted to 84% of all user charges. In 1990,
because of the Gulf crisis and subsequent increase in oil prices, that share dropped to 48%. In 1991
this percentage is likely to have increased, as domestic fuel prices were not lowered while world
prices fell, but data is not yet available to quantify the increase. The government is designing and
implementing a petroleum liberalization plan supported under the Energy Sector Structural Adjustment
Credit (Credit 2306-HO of October 31, 1991), which should be substantially in place by the end of
1993. The plan calls for opening the oil market to competition and for the establishment of explicit
taxes on petroleum products. These should incorporate appropriate user charges for the road network
combined with vehicle licenses which varv with vehicle weight, in order to provide a more equitable
charging instrument. SECOPT, with financing from the IDB's loan, will carry out a study to identify
mechanisms to mobilize resources from road users and channel them for the maintenance of the road
network. The study will include an assessment of road user charges and the evaluation of schemes to
secure a continuous flow of funds for road maintenance, including the possible creation of a Road
Fund. The proposed project would provide a vehicle for continuing the dialogue with the



- 11 -
Government on cost recovery and road maintenance funding, through the support of the related
measures included in the Government's Action Plans (Annex 1, and para. 2.24).
1.35    Engineering. The engineering standards for highway-related work, particularly for work
on bridges, where many of the deficiencies noted during project preparation are directly related to
obsolete design practices, need updating. In addition, the organization, staffing and work procedures
of DGC's Bridge Department should be revised to make it more responsive to the needs in this field.
The design and implementation under this credit of a bridge management system (para. 2.20(c)).
would address most of the deficiencies of the Bridge Department. For further details on the Bridge
Departm,nt, and terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance to be financed under the
project, see Annex 4. Other highway design deficiencies noted during project preparation, such as
inadequate slope protection, will be addressed under the IDB loan through technical assistance to
develop a highway design manual, which is expected to be completed in March, 1994.
Port Subsector Issues
1.36    Honduras has six commercial ports. Five are on the Atlantic coast: Puerto Cortes, Tela, La
Ceiba and Puerto Castilla/Trujillo, with Roatan serving the Bay islands. The port complex of San
Lorenzo/Amapala is on the Pacific coast. The ENP also owns land at Tela, La Ceiba and Isla del
Tigre. No precise figures are available on the area owned and it is understood that, in some cases,
there is doubt concerning appropriateness of title.
1.37    Ship calls in 1991 totalled 1,538, of which 1,445 were at Atlantic coast ports and 93 at San
Lorenzo on the Pacific coast. Container (Li/Lo) and Roll on/Roll off (Ro/Ro)y' vessels
predominated, with totals of 523 and 32X respectively, amounting to 31 % of all calls. A small
proportion of vessels have both Li/Lo and Ro/Ro capability and are classified as container vessels.
Puerto Cortes was the busiest port with 1,195 calls, followed by Puerto Castilla with 187 calls.
1.38    Port Trfic. Port traffic has increased from 2,322 thousand tons in 1975 to 3,589
thousand tons in 1991, an average annual growth of 2.8%. Imports have increased from 1,089
thousand tons to 1,793 thousand tons over the same period, with an average annual growth rate of
3.2%, and exports have grown from 1,233 thousand tons to 1,680 thousand tons, with an average
annual growth rate of 1.9%. The import figures for 1991 include "cargo in transit" of 238 thousand
tons. The above figures also include a small tonnage of coastal traffic, about 50,000 tons per year,
principally outward from Puerto Cortes/La Ceiba to the Bay islands and to the province of Mosquitia.
Oil imports are the single largest item of import cargo, followed by general cargo. For exports,
"specialized cargo" (predominantly bananas) is the largest single category, followed by general cargo.
Dry bulk accounts for about 20% of all traffic.
I/      Li/Loand RolRo refer to the method of cargo handling used by the ship. Li/Lo or 'Lift on /LiR offo
means that the containers are lifted on and off the ship by crane (which may be either on the ship or on the
quay), whilst Ro/Ro or 'Rofl on Roil off' means that the cargo enters and leaves the ship on trailers or
some other wheeled equipment.



- 12-
1.39    The distribution of traffic between the ports has changed substantially over the years, as
shown in Table 1.1.
Table 1.1: Distribution of tmffic between ports, 1975 and 1991
(thousand metric tons)
Year    Pto.      Tela    La Ceiba    Pto.      San    TOTAL
Cortes                       Castilla   Lorenzo
1975   1,828      131       235         -       128        2,322
1991  2,765       239         6       497        82        3,589
1.40    The principal differences between 1975 and 1991 on the Atlantic coast are due to the
opening of Puerto Castilla in 1983 and the transfer of the La Ceiba traffic to Puerto Cortes, after the
former was damaged by a hurricane. Tela has maintained its share, benefitting from the construction
of an oil distribution depot. Oil traffic has replaced, in tonnage terms, the reduced banana traffic in
this port. Banana loading installations were destroyed by fire in 1992 and are unlikely to be rebuilt.
The period has also seen the substitution of the newly constructed port of San Lorenzo for the
previous lighterage installations of Amapala though, on account of the collapse of timber exports from
the Pacific coast, without any reflection in the traffic figure. Puerto Cortes has maintained and
strengthened its dominant role, principally because of its location for markets in Europe and the East
coast of North America, its proximity to San Pedro Sula and the adequacy of its installations,
especially for containers.
1.41    Although ENP as a whole has made reasonable profits in recent years, Puerto Cortes, by
exploiting its monopolistic position and charging considerably more than the costs of its own
operations, has been used to subsidize other ports in the system (including the free zones under their
responsibility, which have only recently started to produce an operating surplus). Revenues from
Puerto Cortes are being used to service the debt incurred as a result of the construction of the Bank-
financed Puerto Castilla and Puerto San Lorenzo, (Loan 767-HO, US$6 million, June 1971; and
Loans 1395-HO, and 1396-HO for US$12 million and IDA credit 696-HO for US$5.5 million, all
approved on April 1977), without need for recourse to fiscal assistance. Port revenues contribute to
the development of port municipalities or local councils, through a 4% levy on all ENP revenues. As
a result, there is almost no relation between port costs and the present price structure for dues and
tariffs. Since the "dollarization" of charges to ships (and containers) after the 1990 devaluation of the
Lempira, there is a serious distortion whereby services to ships account for a disproportionate part of
port revenues. Services to cargo, on the other hand, have not been adjusted in over ten years,
although costs have risen considerably. The result is that ship-related charges heavily subsidize
shore-side operations and that ship owners and operators see the ports of Honduras as among the
dearest in Latin America. The Government is now in the process of carrying-out a cost and tariff
study, with financing from the Canadian Government. This study, which is expected to be completed
by March, 1993, would serve as a basis for establishing cost-based dues and tariffs in Puerto Cortes



- 13 -
by not later thaia June 1993. These measures are included in the Government's Action Plans for the
port subsector supported under the project (para. 2.25 and Annex 1).
1.42    Early in 1992, the Government created a Public Utility Regulatory Commission (PURC),
formed by representatives from the Government, users and labor unions, with the authority to
approve tariffs in several public entities, including the ports. The main purpose of the PURC is to
isolate pricing decisions from the political influence of Congress, which was previously in charge of
tariff approvals. To date, the PURC has had a limited, albeit timely and adequate, role in tariff
setting for ports. In every instance, the PURC approved ENP's recommendations for tariffs changes.
The regulatory framework has been further enhanced by the recent creation of a forum for regular
meetings between ENP and port users. The ongoing study for the revision of port tariffs is one of the
results of this interaction designed to make the ports more responsive to the client's needs and limit
ENP's monopolistic power. For those port services about to be privatized (para. 1.44), agreement
will have to be reached with the operators, as part of the leases or concessions of ENP, on how "fair"
port charges shall be determined. This is partictlarly true for those services to be provided by one
sole operator, where competition will not bring about a matching of prices with marginal costs.
Based on the cost and tariff study, once it is completed, and as part of the initial lease agreements, the
PURC would establish maximum prices, subject to periodic reviews on the basis of ENP's
recommendations. Operators will then be free to charge users in acccrdance with volumes handled,
relative efficiency, or other commercial criteria, provided they do not exceed the maximum price.
The Government, in its Transport Sector Policy Declaration (para. 2.9) states its commitment to
propose to the PURC, through its representatives in the Commission, that port tariffs to be charged
by private operators would be allowed to fluctuate below the maximum price established by the
PURC on the basis of ENP's recommendations.
1.43    ENP is a fairly efficient organization by regional standards, but bureaucratization and lack
of effective competition are eroding its performance. In particular: (a) ENP's monopolistic position
has permitted the steady growth of administrative costs and personnel. The number of employees has
increased from 755 in 1975 to 1,028 at present. This trend resulted in an increase of the ratio of
administrative costs to direct operational costs from 2:1 in 1986 to 2.5:1 in 1990; (b) the high cost of
Honduran ports relative to other ports in the Region, particularly in relation to charges for port
services such as port dues, berthing, and mooring, may tend to discourage new traffic from
transhipment services, as well as increasing the cost of international trade; (c) the present organization
of operations within the ports is uncompetitive; ship agents do not need to invest directly as most
investments are made by the public sector. These public sector investments are not always demand-
driven; (d) the shipowner are not tied to the ports through their own investment in port installations;
and (e) planning and control techniques on the container terminal in Puerto Cortes have not kept up
with the increase in container traffic. These issues would be addressed under the proposed project,
through the implementation of cost-based tariffs, the involvement of the private sector in port
operations and the creation of a separate administrative and operational unit for the container terminal
in Puerto Cortes (para. 1.44).
1.44    In the port subsector, many changes that improve competition come about as a result of
pressure from shipping lines, national shippers, trading partners and equipment manufacturers seeking
the advantages of through transport from origin to destination, including improved total transport
speed, lower inventory costs, more predictable collection and delivery, less packaging, and reduced
damage and lower insurance costs. Thus, ports are adapting rapidly to containerization, introducing
computers, and automating container terminals. The new technologies require operators with



- 14 -
sophisticated computer knowledge and the ability to absorb large amounts of rapidly transmitted
information and use information technology in response. Port workers need higher levels of skills
and more training that emphasizes independent decision-making. Based on its strategy of
decentralizing port management and promoting private sector participation in port operation, the
Government has developed an Action Plan, approved by ENP's Board of Directors on June 12, 1992,
detailing the steps to be taken to improve the operation o. tort facilities (para. 2.25 and Annex 1). In
particular, the Plan calls for transferring the La Ceiba port to local interests; concessioning Puerto
Castilla and Tela to the users; concessioning Puerto San Lorenzo or, alternatively. limiting ENP's
role to administration and maintenance; and creating in Puerto Cortes a separate administrative and
operational unit for the container terminal6. The plan, which has already been partially publicized
and positively received by prospective concessionaires, is expected to promote the involvement of
shipowner and ship agents in the operation of Tela, Puerto Castilla and San Lorenzo and encourage
private investments in ancillary equipment. Implementation of the Action Plan would be under the
responsibility of an Implementation Committee (IC), including the Minister of SECOPT and of
Economy, and a Technical Implementation Unit (lMU) composed of operational and financial staff of
ENP supported by international experts to be financed under the project. Appointment of the IC took
place in September 16, 1992 through Presidential Decree No. 001945. As a first step, the IC and
ENP, with the support of consultants to be financed under the project, will evaluate the financial and
economic impact of alternative privatization schemes and define the actions that will be implemented
in each port. A second phase technical assistance would help ENP to implement those actions
selected as the most advantageous to increase efficiency in port operations. Hiring consultants to
carry out the first phase of the technical assistance would be a condition of credit effectiveness, and
the consultants for the implementation phase would be hired not later than October 31, 1993 (para.
2.21). Annex 5 provides further details of the port subsector and includes the outline terms of
reference for the technical assistance to be financed under the proposed project. During negotiations
agreement was also reached that the Government will: (i) implement the Action Plan (para. 2.9); and
(ii) cause ENP to reduce its staff in accordance to the key project indicators presented in Table 1 of
Annex 9 (para. 3.1(b)). Compliance would be monitored during supervision and through annual and
mid-term reviews (para. 2.34).
Airport Subsector Issues
1.45    The Law of Civil Aviation establishes DGAC as responsible for, among other things,
guaranteeing air transport safety, licensing aeron_*tical personnel, keeping registry of permits,
licenses and navigability of airplanes, overviewing national and private airports and administering the
former, promoting the development of civil aviation, supervising the performance of civil
establishments for aeronautical education, overviewing the inspection and testing of airplanes, and
investigating air accidents. DGAC is only partially carying out its operational functions. Because of
a lack of commercial objectives and the involvement of other agencies in air transport management,
such as the Ministry of Finance (responsible for honoring DGAC's bills), the Ministry of Economy
(in charge of tariff setting) and DGCCA (responsible for infrastructure maintenance), decisions are
6I      Jnmplementation of this plan would reut in the following reduct:ons in BNP's staff: (a) 128 in 1993, of
which 40 would be from La Ceiba and 88 from San Lorenzo; and (b) 100 in 1994 of which 11 are from
Tela, 40 from the privatization of the Free Zones and 49 from ENP's redundant administmive staff.



- 15 -
often inconsistent and frequently run counter to the stated objectives. Because of insufficient
resources and lack of accountability darived from the present organizational structure, airport services
are deteriorating rapidly, and disruptions caused by malfunctioning equipment are frequent.
1.46    One major problem is that the airports do not have their own budget. Government
allocations to DGAC totalled L 7.0 million in 1991, of which 82% were for wages and salaries.
DGCCA received in the same year L 13.5 million, of which about 50% were for intensive
maintenance of the badly deteriorated runway in the San Pedro Sula airport. Revenues generated by
the airport subsector in 1991 totalled L 36.8 million, of which 62% corresponds to taxes on
international and domestic air tickets. There is substantial room for increasing airport revenues
through fees normally charged to users of international airports but not in Honduras; i.e., taxes on
aviation fuel and airfreight, fees for illumination as a percentage of landing fees, reduction of free
airplane parking rights to about 2 hours (currently 6 hours for passenger and 8 hours for freight
airplanes), airport fees to domestic travellers and elimination of exemptions for international
passengers (currently an estimated 35% of international travellers are exempted from paying airport
fees). Available data on airport costs is very unreliable and indicate a dismal operation. The
Government, has decided to ensure the financial self-sufficiency of the airports and the improvement
of its operations through a major restructuring effort and an involvement of the private sector to bring
a measure of commercial orientation and accountability to the subsector, a process that will be
supported under the proposed project, in close collaboration with the International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO) (para. 1.48).
1.47    The present administration has taken the first steps towards involving the private sector in
airport management. A proposed law for concessioning the airport of Tegucigalpa tC the local
Chamber of Commerce was presen>ted to Congress in October of 1990, but was not brought to the
floor. The Government subsequently recognized that the institutional and financial schemes proposed
in the law did not shield airport operations from politically based decisions and the proposed law was
recently withdrawn from Congress.
1.48    Under a technical assistance program with the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) and ICAO, the Government is developing a plan for civil aviation, including the definition of
the appropriate institutional setting for the subsector, future infrastructure development, an analysis of
the options for incorporating the private sector into airport management and a detailed action plan for
implementing the agreed recommendations. As a first step the Government, with ICAG's support, is
developing the institutional framework needed if the airports are to operate independently of the
central budget. The options being studied include: (a) continuation of DGAC as a SECOPT
Directorate with full responsibility for airports administration, but able to retain resources generated
by the airports for airport operations and maintenance and the mandate to establish cost-based tariffs;
(b) establishment of DGAC as an independent Airport Authority to operate in a way similar to ENP;
and (c) establishment of the Honduran Council for Civil Aviation, Airports and Related Services,
integrated by representatives of the public and private sectors, to be responsible for all aspects of civil
aviation. The Council would carry out its duties through three subsidiary entities: (i) the
Administrative Council, in charge of policy-formulation for Civil Aviation; (ii) the DGAC, that would
have normative, regulating and monitoring functions; and (iii) the Directorate General of Airports and
Related Services, in charge of airport operations and related navigation aids. In all these cases, most
airport activities and commercial and service areas would be in the hands of private concessionaires.
Furthermore, two basic rules would be respected, regardless of the chosen public-private mix: (a)



- 16 -
resources generated by the airports would remain for use in the airports: and (b) airport managers
would have complete responsibility and would be accountable for all airport operations, including
overseeing that the procedures for operations such as immigration, customs, or security that are
delegated to or intrinsically dependent on third parties, are properly followed. ICAO's
recommendations on the institutional framework for the subsector, including those on private sector
participation in airports, are under preparation. ICAO is also helping the Government to develop
procedures and cost centers to operate the airports on a commercial basis. Their technical assistance
for the institutional and organizational subsector reform is expected to be completed in April 1993.
1.49    Preparation and approval of the required institutional changes and concessioning airports
administration would take about one to two more years. The Government has decided that, in the
interim period, with IDA-financed assistance, it would start operating the airports on the basis of
ICAO's procedures and tariffs to recover operating and maintenance costs. The technical assistance
would help familiarize DGAC's technical staff with modem management practices and operational
procedures and, in the process, make the costs of and demand for various airport services more
transparent, enabling a better assessment of the value of future concessions to the private sector.
Annex 6 presents the terms of reference for the Technical Assistance to the airport subsector agreed
upon at negotiations and the division of responsibilities between ICAO and IDA. Hiring the
consultants for this technical assistance would be a condition for disbursement of credit funds to
finance the rehabilitation of the San Pedro Sula airport runway (para. 2.21). To implement this
scheme, budgetary allocations to DGAC should be sufficient for the adequate operation and
maintenance of the airports. During negotiations, it was agreed that the Government, with the
support of the IDA financed technical assistance, would prepare and furnish to IDA, not later than
October 31, 1993 an operations and maintenance plan for the airports satisfactory to IDA and,
subsequently provide in its annual budget, starting in 1994, sufficient funds to DGAC to implement
said plan until an entity with juridical personality and financial autonomy is established to operate the
airports (para. 3.1(c)). The Government's Action Plan for the Airport subsector (para. 2.26 and
Annex 1) describes the steps to be taken to design and implement the new institutional and operational
schemes to increase the airports autonomy. Compliance with the Plan would be monitored during the
annual and mid-term project implementation reviews (para. 2.34).
Railway Subsector Issues
1.50    The Honduran railway system has 886 km of track, of wuich 204 km are currently operated
by Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Honduras (FNH) in the Valle de Sula region, 336 km in the same
region are concessioned to the Tela Railway Co. (TRR Co.), a subsidiary of the United Fruit
Company, and 346 km serving the Ports of Tela and La Ceiba are out of service due to their
deteriorated state and lack of demand.
1.51    Traffic volume in general has been gradually deteriorating. Freight traffic decreased from a
peak of 705,200 tons in 1985 to 264,000 tons in 1990. Traffic in the main commodities, bananas and
wood, which together accounted for 73% (496,100 tons) of the total freight in 1985, by 1991 had
dropped to 121,400 tons or 46% of the total volume transported. Banana traffic decreased sharply
from 246,000 tons in 1985 to 71,600 tons in 1991. Demand growth concentrated -n non-traditional
high-value-low-volume exports, not suitable for railway transport, and exports of containerized banana
and pineapple. The latter has shifted from La Ceiba to Puerto Castilla, which is not served by rail.



- 17 -
The ongoing widening of the San Pedro Sula - Puerto Cortes road to four lanes will further reduce
the railways' comparative advantage. (The railway subsector is discussed in more detail in Annex 7).
1.52    FNH is experiencing growing operating deficits, totaling about US$1 million in 1991.
About half of this amount was caused by the La Ceiba line which, although not in operation,
continued to have 139 employees on its payroll, in addition to 48 paid security guards. FNH has
been able to cover part of its operating deficits through the sale of land assets. The labor union,
howe"er, is pressuring FNH to use its land assets to cover future pension claims, for which the
railway company has made no provisions. Because of PNH's poor physical and financial situation,
and pessimistic forecasts for the future of its market, it is unlikely that rail service can be continued
without increasing government subsidies. In view of this pessimistic outlook, the Government
recently hired consultants to evaluate the railways' options. Based on the results of the study, it
concluded that the low traffic volumes and the relatively short distances between the major markets
and Puerto Cortes are not conducive to the railway's long-term financial viability, even were they to
be run efficiently by a private operator. The Government plans to concession the sections Puerto
Cortes - Baracoa and Higuerito - Progreso (a total of 55 km) to TRR Co., and to phase out the
remaining sections by 1996 through a combination of measures involving discontinuation of passenger
traffic and gradual transfer of freight traffic to the road by increasing railway tariffs to equal truck
tariffs. The planned reduction in railway services and traffic volumes will be accompanied by
reductions in FNH personnel, which, based on the schedule to scale down FNH's operations, are
expected to reach 290 in 1994, and 175 in 1995.2' By 1996 railway services will be completely
discontinued and the remaining staff will be separated from their positions. The plan also calls for
the gradual disposal of FNH's assets to finance staff severance payments. The operational deficit of
FNH is expected to be reduced to at least US$0.75 million in 1993, US$0.50 mi1lion in 1994,
US$0.25 million in 1995, and completely eliminated in 1996, when FNH will discontinue its
operations. During negotiations agreement was reached that the Government will: (i) implement the
agreed Action Plan (para. 2.9); and (ii) cause FNH to reduce its operating deficit in accordance to the
key project indicators presented in Table 1 of Annex 9 (para. 3.1(d)). Compliance with the Action
Plan would be monitored during supervision through annual and mid-term reviews (para. 2.34). As a
first step, the Government, on November 30, 1992 closed the La Ceiba line. All staff totalling 143
employees, including all operational personnel, accepted a voluntary retirement program with
severance payments financed by the US Agency for International Development (USAID), and no new
staff will be assigned to the line.
2/      The rsducticn of 50 FNH's peronnel in 1994 would be achieved by: (a) reducing locomotive crew from 2
to 1 membrs (6 pOople); knd (b) reducing redundan workshop taff (44 people). in 1996 FNH would
cam operations and the remaining 175 employoes would be separed from the company.



- 18 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
Lessons of Past Experience
2.1     Transport infrastructure in Honduras has improved significantly over the last four decades,
to a network of highways and feeder roads that covers most of the country, and a port system that is
adequate. Substantial institutional development has taken place during the period, and management
capabilities in the highway and port subsectors have been improved. These major infrastructure and
institutional developments are largely the result ofT eight highway projects and three ports projects
funded by Bank/IDA (Annex 8). Implementation of the highway projects started in 1955 with a
Highway Maintenance Project, and ended in 1986 with the closing of the Eighth Highway Project.
Port projects started in 1966 with the Puerto Cortes project and ended in 1984 with the closing of the
Third Port Project.
2.2     The Bank/lDA participation has been instrumental in developing the Honduran transport
system. In the highway subsector there was a logical and well designed sequence of project
components throughout the eight loans. The first projects concentrated on construc.ion of major
sections of highways, and development of a road maintenance capacity. The emphasis then turned to
secondary and feeder roads, improving access to and from rural areas. Institution building was
emphasized through several technical assistance programs. While there was some progress in
maintenance planning and operations, results were often described as below expectations. In the ports
subsector, after a successful first project providing Puerto Cortes with much needed modern facilities,
the subsequent projects, because of optimistic demand projections, created excess capacity in Puerto
Castilla and Puerto San Lorenzo. However, institutional objectives were accomplished successfully
and ENP became a well run and relatively autonomous enterprise.
2.3     Past Bank/IDA lending for the transport sector focused on specific investments with limited
regard to the sectoral conte.a. Key policy elements such as intersectoral resource allocation and cost
recovery were not given the importance they deserved. The strategy for the transport sector that
would be supported under the proposed credit would have a sectoral approach with a focus on
resource allocation issues, such as user charges for the funding of investment and maintenance,
adequacy of institutional arrangements and improvement of analytical capacity and achievement of a
better private-public mix to ensure transport efficiency. Legal, regulatory and institutional reforms to
improve transport management already under way indicate the Government's commitment to reform
and should ensure that the proposed program to increase sector efficiency and involve the private
sector is implementable. With this strategy, the risks of investing scarce resources in a distorted
environment will be minimized and measurement of investment priorities will be improved.
2.4     Finally, Bank experience has shown that the development of planning capabilities should
move away from the preparation of massive and highly sophisticated Master Transport Plans that
rapidly become outdated, and toward providing the basic tools for dynamic planning. Delivery of the
technical assistance should be based on participatory approaches in which the recipients have an
important role in identifying their needs and carrying out their planning tasks, with training provided
on day-to-day specific problems. The design draws upon the experience and lessons learned under
previous Bank/IDA loans and credits to Honduras' transport sector, which show that institution
building is a slow process and requires continued support to strengthen transport sector management.



- 19 -
In addition to these country-specific lessons, Bank experience worldwide indicates the need to address
the following types of issues: increased accountability in the government agencies; a better public-
private sector mix; a strong regulatory framework especially in to those areas in which there are clear
market failures; and pricing and investment policies to ensure an economy free of distortions. These
findings are fully addressed in the policy and institutional development components of the project
(paras. 2.9 and 2.20).
Ratio-ale of the Proposed Sector Project
2.5     IDA's lending strategy for Honduras aims to support private-sector led growth and help the
Government develop the appropriate institutional and policy framework within key sectors, at a time
when the Government is showing strong commitment to sector reform. IDA's strategy for the
transport sector seeks to: (a) support institutional and policy changes designed to encourage private
sector participation in transport; (b) strengthen investment selection procedures to ensure that they are
based on sound technical, economic and environmental criteria; (c) help maintain and rehabilitate
existing assets (maintenance and rehabilitation have been shown to yield higher economic returns than
new investments); and (d) promote more thorough assessment of the environmental and efficiency
implications of transport investment and pricing policies. Building on the Government's successful
ongoing structural and sectoral adjustment program, IDA is in a unique position to support the
Government's efforts to restructure the transport sector and help coordinate the efforts of other
institutions, such as IDB and ICAO, which also have an important support role in the development of
sector policies.
2.6     The proposed sector credit broadens the past Bank/IDA strategy of project-specific lending
to embrace sector-wide concerns. The credit would support policy and institutional reforms in the
transport sector and finance a percentage of the sector's investment program. The purpose of the
policy and institutional improvements to be supported under the proposed project is to redefine the
state's role in transport by transferring to the private sector those services that it can better provide,
and to strengthen the capability of the public sector for transport management. The new public-
private mix would reduce the demand on the Government's fiscal resources and prevent the
deterioration of existing investments during periods of public funding constraints, and thus contribute
to sustainable investments in the sector.
B. Project Objectives
2.7     Consistent with IDA's lending strategy, the project has two major objectives: (a) to help
develop the institutional and regulatory framework of the sector so as to: (i) encourage greater
private provision of transport services; (ii) establish investment and pricing policies based on
efficiency and equity considerations; (iii) strengthen SECOPT's capability to discharge its planning
and regulatory functions; (iv) integrate into SECOPT's work the systematic consideration of
environmental concerns; (v) restructure the oort subsector and redefine the role of ENP; (vi) design
and implement a strategy for the development of the airport subsector; and (vii) rationalize railway
operations; and (b) help improve and rehabilitate transport infrastructure in the main trade corridors
in support of the Government's efforts for export-led growth, and reduce the backlog of deferred
maintenance. It is designed as a sector investment project with strong policy-based objectives aimed



- 20 -
at improving sector performance by strengthening its managerial and planning capabilities and
stimulating competition and private sector involvement.
C. Project Description
2.8     Project Description: The project would have three components, as follows: I. Policy
component: The project would assist in further developing and supporting ongoing measures to
increase private sector participation in transport and to implement regulatory and pricing policies
aiming at improving competition and cost recovery in each subsector. A Sector Policy Statement
provides the GOH's medium-term strategy for the sector and related Action Plans, to be supported
under the project, specify measures to be taken to address important issues in each subsector. These
plans would aim, in particular, at: (i) designing and implementing an appropriate regulatory
framework for urban and inter-urban road transport, including the revision of the existing Transport
Law; (ii) increasing the role of the private sector in road maintenance; (iii) implementing sound
systems for road user charger and axle load controls; and (iv) designing and implementing measures
to reorganize the port, airport and railway subsectors. II. The investment component (US$79.6
million) would finance a time slice of the CGovernment's 1993-1996 TSIP totalling US$545.7 million
and would support: (i) rehabilitation of about 150 km of roads in the main export corridors (24% of
total IDA financed project cost); (ii) periodic maintenance of about 1800 km of the rod network
(25%); (iii) construction and rehabilitation of about 1000 m of bridges (7%); (iv) rehabilitation of
1000 km of feeder roads in agriculturally rich areas (21 %); and (v) rehabilitation of the runway,
taxiway and apron of the San Pedro Sula airport (19%). The first year program includes the
rehabilitation of the Choluteca-Guasaule road (44 km) and the Tela-La Ceiba road (100 km). HI. The
institutional development and technical assistance component (US$3.3 million, 4% of IDA financed
total cost) comprises consulting services for: (a) implementing the Government's Institutional
Development Program for: (i) strengthening the capabilities of SECOPT's SSPF and DGT to carry
out project evaluation and implement a regulatory framework consistent with the new public-private
sector mix; and (ii) expanding the role of the Environmental Unit to encompass all transport modes
and effectively integrating environmental aspects into SECOPT's investment decisions; (b) supporting
the implementation of the Action Plans in the areas related to privatization/divestiture measures for
the port and airport subsectors; and (c) strengthening SECOPT's capacity for bridge management.
The following paragraphs provide further details on the project components.
Policy Component
2.9     The close and active policy dialogue on transport issues that IDA and the Government
maintained throughout project preparation has helped to identify and give impetus to important sector
reforms. During 1991 and 1992, to address issues that IDA had previously identified as impeding
sector development, the Government: (a) increased road maintenance by contract, reduced DGCCA
staff and auctioned maintenance equipment to the private sector; (b) approved, through ENP's Board
of Directors, a detailed program for decentralizing port administration and concessioning operations to
local and private interests; (c) agreed with ICAO on a comprehensive technical assistance program for
commercializing and privatizing airport operations and a start on redefining the institutional and
regulatory framework for the subsector; and (d) carried out an in-depth evaluation of the railways
sector options, closed La Ceiba Railway Line, eliminating from FNH's payroll all its operational



-21 -
staff, and approved a plan for phasing out FNH operations. In connection with the proposed project,
the Government and IDA, agreed during negotiations: (i) on the Transport Sector Policy Declaration
presenting the Government's medium-term strategy for the sector; (ii) on the implementation of the
Action Plans to address the key sector issues according to the timetables set forth in the Action Plans,
including, jn  alia, the revision of the present Transport Law and related regulations (these Action
Plans are summarized in paras. 2.22 to 2.27 and contained in Annex 1); and (iii) that it would be an
event of default if the Government takes any action or adopts any policy within the sector not
consistent with the policies outlined in the Transport Sector Policy Declaration (para. 3.1 (e)).
During the annual and mid-term project reviews (para. 2.34) IDA and the Government would jointly
evaluate the progress made in implementing the Policy Declaration and related Action Plans and agree
on any necessary adjustments.
Investment Component
2.10    The US$77.5 million investment component of the project would finance a time slice of the
Government's 1993-1996 TSIP totalling US$545.7 million. The proposed IDA credit would finance
selected rehabilitation, periodic maintnance and improvement works of this program. The level of
expenditures in the TSIP is considered adequate to attend to high priority construction and
rehabilitation works in order to upgrade the road network to maintainable conditions, provide for a
reduction of the backlog of deferred rood maintenance and address the unmet needs in the airport
subsector. Table 2.1 summarizes the 1993-1996 TSIP. During negotiations agreement was reached
on: (i) the 1993-1996 TSIP; and (ii) that any change to the 1993-1996 TSIP, which would be
reviewed during the annual and mid-term reviews to update its scope and content in view of progress
achieved in the previous year and possible changes in priority, would have to be satisfactory to IDA
(paras. 2.34 and 3.1(f)).
2.11    The investments in the transport sector would help improve and maintain Honduras'
infrastructure to support both export-led growth and regional economic integration. The main
investments included in the program are: (a) in the hif,ay subse , construction of nearly 1,500
km of roads, mostly feeder roads; improvement (widening) of 86 km of the main road network to
relieve congestion on the roads links connecting San Pedro Sula to Puerto Cortes and to the
neighboring industrial parks, and the road between San Pedro Sula and Progreso; paving of 587 km
of the secondary road network; conEtruction and rehabilitation of bridges; the rehabilitation of nearly
2,500 km of roads including main connections with Nicaragua (i.e. Jicaro Galan-EI Espino and
Choluteca-Guasaule), with Guatemala (Cbamalecon-Entrada), and with El Salvador (La Paz-
Goascaran); and road maintenance works. About 56% of road works included in the program have
already been initiated (Table 6 in Annex 3); (b) in the aor se , rehabilitation of the runway
and construction of a new passenger and freight trminal at the San Pedro Sula airport, and
construction of a passenger terminal in Roatan; and (c) in the VWubsetr expansion of the
container terminal and constrution of a Ro-Ro facility at Puerto Cortes.



Table 2.1: Transport Sector Investment Program (1993-1996)
Estimated Costs
(US$ mlion)
1993-              1994                1995                1996           1993-1996
PROJECTrCOMPONENTS                          Local   Foreign     Local   Foreldn    Local   Foreign     Local   Foreign   Local  Foregn   TOTAL
ROAD INVESTMENTS
- Road Construction                          1.72      2.59      1.06      1.58     1.16       1.75     0.74      1.11    4.68      7.03     11.71
- Road Inmveme                              15.50     23.24                                                               15.50    23.24    38.74
- Road Pavin                                 5.20      7.81      &78       5.68     7.96      11.95      .63      1295   25.57     38.39    63.96
- ridge Consructonand Rehaimaton             1.74      2.62      1.66      2.49      1.17      1.76     0.18      0.26    4.75      7.13     11.68
- Road Rehablitalon                         23.90     35.90     12.90     19.30     6.50       9.70     4.50      6.82   47.80     71.72    119.52
- Periodc Mainenance                         7B       13.22      9,32     13.98     10.20     15.30    11.44     17.16   3&a4       an       9
SUB TOTAL                    55.64     85.38     28.72     43.03    26.99      40.46    25.49     38.30  137.04    207.17    344.21
AIRPOT INVETMENTS
- San Pedro Suia-RunwayRehabUltadon          0.96      1.44      2.40      3.60      1.44      2.16       --        --    4.80      7.20     12.00
- San Pedro Sub-Passenger and Freight Terminal    1.32  3.08     9.00     21.00     2.88       6.72       --        --   13.20    30.80    44.00
- Roatan-Passenger Terminal                  0025      0.75       .s90     2.10       --        --        --        --    1.15      2.85      4A
SUB TOTAL                     2.53      5.27     12.30     26.70      4.32      8.68       --        --   19.15    40.85      60.00
PORT INVESTMENTS
- PuesoCortes-Expanslon ContainerTerminal    1.20      1.80      200       3.00       --        --        --        --    3.20      4.80.    8.00
- Pueno Cones-Consiructica od Ro-Ro facility                     0.40      0.60      1.20      180                         1.60     240       4.00
SUB TOTAL                     1.20      1.80      2.40      3.60      1.20      1.80       --        --    4.80      7.20    12.00
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES             3.75      11.25     2.60     1Q80       5.20      7.80     300        3.00   1455    325       47.40
TOTAL BASE LINECOST                         63.32     103.70    46.02     84.13     37.71     58.94    28.49      41.30  175.54   288.07   463.61
Physicalcontlingencies                       5.96      9.25      4.34      7.33      3.25      5.11     2.55       3.83   16.10    25.52    41.62
Price Contingencles                          2.49      4.07      3.69      6.74      4.62      7.22     4.75       6.88   15.55    24.93    40.47
TOTAL PROJECT COST       .                  71.77     117.02    54.05     98.20     45.58     71.28    35.79      52.01  207.19    338.52    545.70



- 23 -
2.12    No investment with an economic rate of return (ERR) below 12% and/or which is not
environmentally sound, both evaluated using methods and parameters satisfactory to IDA, would be
included or subsequently entered into the 1993-1996 program, except for a limited number of
investments in access roads (not to exceed 10% of the total expenditures in access roads) that have an
exceptionally strong social impact in terms of improved access to social services and employment.
The economic efficiency criteria would be relaxed for these investments, but they should still meet
standard environmental criteria. These projects must meet the following conditions: (a) new roads
would not exceed 14 km in length; and (b) construction of access roads would not exceed US$650 per
capita of the population served1. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para.
3.1(g)).
2.13    The overall size of the TSIP, approximately US$136 million per year corresponds to about
4% of current GDP, i.e. some 20% below the annual average 5% of GDP allocated to the sector
during the 1980s. The program represents a substantial shift from construction to rehabilitation and
maintenance, which is appropriate, particularly considering the past neglect of the road transport
infrastructure and the need to upgrade airport facilities. The relative amounts allocated to the various
modes also correctly reflect their economic roles and needs: about 74% of the total is for highways,
13% for airports, 3% for ports, and 10% for technical assistance and studies. For highways, about
29% of expendituees will be for maintenance, 38% for road and bridge rehabilitation, and 33% for
road construction, improvement and paving. The allocation of about 61 % of road funds for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of the network correctly reflects the high priority of the administration
is giving to the protection of the existing capital stock. The capability of the contracting industry to
carry out road rehabilitation and maintenance was reviewed during appraisal and found satisfactory.
2.14    The investments in road improvement, rehabilitation and periodic maintenance for the 1993-
1995 program (see Annex 3) are based on carefully analyzed economic feasibility and priority
ranking. For 1996 they are based on estimates that take into consideration maintenance needs for the
rehabilitated road network. These needs have been identified through the evaluation of alternative
maintenance policies in order to minimize both maintenance expenditures and vehicle operating costs.
Construction of passenger and freight terminals for the San Pedro Sula Airport are based on an
Airport Development Plan carried out by a Spanish Consultant firm with financing from the
Government of Spain. Construction, on a turnkey basis, is also being negotiated with a Spanish firm.
About 65% of the cost of these airport investments is for equipment and the Government is reviewing
ways to reduce these costs. In particular, SECOPIT is reevaluating the need for primary and
secondary radars, and for loading and unloading equipment for the freight terminal-such equipment
could be provided by the future private operator. The proposed airport investments will fill an
important gap in the transport infrastructure of Honduras, but further investments will be needed to
modernize the country's airport services and provide an acceptable standard of efficiency and
security. The most obvious need is to replace the unsafe Toncontin Airport in Tegucigalpa, and
alternative sites would be studied as part of ICAO's supported Airport Development Plan.
Meanwhile, to attend the growing demand for air cargo, the military has agreed on the use of
This indicator is based on assumptions regardng potential i"-creasem in community earning through outside
employment, some incroases in the value of local production, and the potential magnitude of other social
benefits compared with the average cost of nmral road improvements, as calculatd in similar Bank/DA
projects in Latin America.



- 24 -
Palmerola Base, located at about 75 km from Tegucigalpa, for freight traffic. Future sharing of
Palmerola for military and civil use is one of the options the Government is considering for the
replacement of Toncontin. For ENP, the 1993-1996 program for port development includes
investments in the container terminal of Puerto Cortes, to be financed with ENP's own resources.
Within the 1993-1996 TSIP, works expected to be financed under the proposed IDA credit are
presented in Table 2.2 and discussed below.
Table 2.2 IDA Financed Components
(US$ Milion)
IDA
IDA    Sharo
PROJECT COMPONENTS                                   Local Foreign  TOTAL  Share  1A)
A. Main Road Rehabilitation (I150 m)                 UZ      8.74   14f   IlES          so
B. Feeder Roads Rehabilitation (1000 km)              QAm    LH       I      12L1.      80
C. Periodic Maintonance (1800 km) 1/                 j     L         18848   10.41      62
D. Bridge Program (1000 m)                           in      3.09   La       412       80
E. Runway Rehabilitaion-San Pedro Sula Airport       4.S4       8.8t   1.     90        80
F. Consultants                                       3.08    43       70         0    100
(a) Works Supervision                             1.92    2.89    4.81    4.81
(b) Tochnical Assistance & Training               1.16    1.73    2.89    2.89
(b.1) Bidge Management Systen                    0.20    0.30    0.50    0.50
(b.2) Institutional Development Program          0.84    0.96    1.60    1.60
(b.3) Technical Assistance Action Plan Implementation  0.32    0.47    0.79    0.79
G. Equipment                                                 0.9      09      0        100
(a) Equipment - San Pedro Sula Airport                    0.85    0.85    0.85
(b) Ancillary Equipment for Tochnical Assistance          0.10    0.10    0.10
Cornponent
BASE COST  27.1   41U.    IBM        iW.
Physlo  Contingencies (10% of A.B.C.D and E)        2.40    3.61    6.01    4.53
Price Contingencies                                  3.65    4.47    8.12    6.50
TOTAL COSTS  ILIZ   49J.7     D=8     IS.O
I/ IDA will flnanco 80% until US$4.Sr lllon of the Creit Aocount hs been disbured; 60% untti an
additional US$3.6 mirion has been disbursed, aw 45% therafter.



- 25 -
2.15    Main Road Network Rehabilitation. IDA financing would include road rehabilitation and
improvement of about 150 km of roads in the main export corridors. During the first year, the
project would finance the rehabilitation of the Choluteca-Guasaule road (two lanes, 44 km), part of
the so-called Central America "natural" land corridor which provides the best road connection
between the countries of the region. The use of this road by traffic to and from Nicaragua was
interrupted following the destruction of the Guasaule bridge in 1982. A temporary one-lane bridge
has been built: construction of the permanent bridge started this year with financing from the
European Economic Community. The current traffic of 1,500 vehicles per day (vpd) is expected to
increase to 2,000 vpd by the year 2000. The road rehabilitation feasibility study, carried out in early
1992 by local consultants with financing provided by the Central American Bank for Economic
Integration (CABEI), concluded that the pavement and shoulders are in poor condition and that
immediate rehabilitation is needed to prevent further deterioration. Final engineering and
environmental studies have already been completed. The expected ERR for these works is 21 %.
Also during the first year, the project would finance the rehabilitation of the Tela-La Ceiba road (two
lanes), which is part of the main east-west corridor in northern Honduras. In addition to connecting
these two major urban centers (ports), its importance is linked to the agriculturally rich land in that
part of the country. The feasibility study conducted in early 1992 by a local consultant firm shows
that the road surface is in fair condition requiring only a sealing coat to prevent the pavement from
deteriorating. Some sections of this road with total length of about 10 km require
reconstruction/rehabilitation to correct faults in the pavement structure or destruction caused by
landslides. The major investment on this road will be directed to the rehabilitation of 15 bridges
damaged by the changing conditions in the river flows. The road is located in a hydrologically
difficul area where debris carried by rivers sediments near the bridges producing changes on the river
bed and thus in the river flow. This issue will be addressed through appropriate river course
treatments and bridge designs. Engineering and environmental studies have already been completed.
The expected EER for these works is also 21 %.
2.16    Feeder Roads Network Rehabilitation Program. This program would include rehabilitation
of about 1000 km of feeder roads. The roads would be selected on the basis of their individual merit
based on a minimum ERR of 12% and technical criteria that have been reviewed by IDA and found
satisfactory. The roads would give the rural poor access to the markets for their products, enabling
them to improve their living standards. Once rehabilitated, the roads would be transferred to
DGCCA for inclusion in the Directorate's road maintenance program.
2.17    Road Maintenance. IDA financing would include periodic maintenance of about 1800 km
of roads through the award of four-year contracts for the maintenance of the road network in a
subregion of the country. This approach is expected to yield the following benefits: (a) lower costs
due to the guarantee of continuous work for the contractor; and (b) improved road maintenance by
"locking-in" funds for that purpose. SECOPT is expected to finalize in June 1993 the design of the
scheme, particularly: (a) building in the contracts a workable definition of standards on which the
performance of the contractor would be monitored; and (b) defining the Government's and the
contractors' responsibilities. IDA financing of this project component would be on a declining basis
(para. 2.40(b)), and it would allow the necessary lerd time for the Government to design and
gradually implement a Road Fund with IDB assistance.
2.18    Bridge Rehabilitation Program. The project would include construction and rehabilitation of
approximately 1000 linear meters (Im) of bridges on the primary road network. The final selection of



- 26 -
the subprojects to be included in this program would be completed during the first year of project
implementation. As part of the technical assistance for the design and implementation of a bridge
management system (para. 2.19(c)) the consultants will screen and prioritize the subprojects identified
by DGC as requiring urgent rehabilitation on the basis of technical parameters related to traffic loads
and degree of deterioration of the bridges.
2.19    Runway and Taxiway Rehabilitation - San Pedro Sula Airport. This component would
include the complete rehabilitation of the San Pedro Sula Airport's 2,700-meter runway, its taxiway
and apron, which are in poor condition. The works includes improvement of drainage and provision
of pumping equipment. The proposed design was prepared by the US Corps of Engineers in 1989.
The rehabilitation was supported by a full economic analysis conducted by a local firm in early 1992.
This subproject has an estimated ERR of 20%.
Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Component
2.20    This US$3.3 million ccmponen: comprises technical assistance and training to strengthen
SECOPT's capacity to plan and regulate and to improve bridge management, and to implement the
Action Plans for reorganizing the ports and airports. In particular, the project would include:
(a)  Technical Assistance and Training to SECOPT. To implement SECOPT's Institutional
Development Program, consultant services would provide technical assistance and
training to: (a) strengthen the capacity of SSPF to plan, program and budget, and to
incorporate environmental considerations into the planning process; and (b) to redefine
DGT's role and improve its capacity to analyze pricing and regulatory policies, as well
as to develop a suitable data base on land transport (Annex 2).
(b) Technical Assistance to Implement the Action Plans. The project would finance
consultants to Xti!st i reorganizing the port and airport subsectors, in areas related to
concession of assvis t-i the private sector. In particular, this component would finance
international experts ca evaluation of concessioning alternatives in the port subsector,
asset valuation, concession contracts, bidding documents and the preparation of
business plans and. in the case of airports, the co-management of the San Pedro Sula
and Toncontin airports for a period of eighteen months. Terms of reference for the
technical assistance to the IC are included in Annex 7; and for the technical assistance
for airport management, and its relation to ICAO's technical assistance, in Annex 6;
and
(c) Design and Imolementation of a Bridge Management System. Consultant services to
design and implement a bridge management system in the DGC's Bridge Department.
Technical assistance would include purchase of computing equipment to implement the
system. The consultants would also recommend and help implement the required
organizational changes to ensure that the system is successfully brought into use and
operated. Terms of reference for this technical assistance are included in Annex 4.
2.21    During negotiations, agreement was reached on the final Terms of Reference for: (i) the
technical assistance to implement the Institutional Development Plan; (ii) implementation of the Action
Plans in the port and airport subsectors; and (iii) establishing a Bridge Management System in



- 27 -
SECOPT (para. 3.1(h)). Implementation of the technical assistance, dates of completion, and follow-
up actions are included in the Government's Action Plans and would be monitored during the annual
and mid-term reviews (para. 2.34). During negotiations agreement was reached that: (i) appointment
of consultants to carry out the technical assistance for the evaluation of the economic and financial
impact of different leasing/concessioning alternatives in the port subsector would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (para. 3.2(c)); (ii) hiring consultants for the implementation of port reforms
would take place not later than October 31, 1993 (para. 3.1(i)); (iii) appointment of consultants to
carry out the technical assistance for airport management would be a condition of disbursement for
the rehabilitation of the runway in the San Pedro Sula airport (para. 3.3); and (iv) the consultants to
implement the Bridge Management System would start work prior to October 31, 1993 (para. 3.1(i)).
For the consultant services described in para. 2.20 (a) agreement was reached at negotiations that:
(ii) engagement of the consultants to carry out the first phase of the Program and initiation of their
work should take place no later than July 31, 1993 and appointment of the consultants to implement
the Second phase of the program would take place not later than December 15, 1993. Table 2.3
summarizes the technical assistance component of the project, the implementation schedule and
monitoring arrangements.



- 28 -
Table 2.3 SUMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSIffANCE AND TRAENING COMPONENT
TlUCEICAL ASSISTANCIE           E2[ErC    4G  |   SIART    |   END    |   MAN-             E DA DISCUSSION
AGTCiNC                                    MONTHS  AND COMMENTS
|n ldod  DoeamoDent Boz
(dw OnDe)                          __                                                           
.  Diagnosis of present weakne_m     SECOPI            7/93           8/93          2
in SSPF and DOT.
*  Definition of planning,           SECOPr            7/93           8/93          2
progrmming and budgedng
procedurem and of the role of
|    DarT.                                                                                   Annual Review
|    Iderfification of inatitutional  SECOPI           9/93          10193           2
gaps, technical assistance and
trining needs.
.  Preparation of Terms of           SECOPr            9/93          10/93           2
Reference for Second Phase.
Inslit0        D"emdoet Pla
Tnsport Phnning                      S9PF             11/93          4/95          75          Annual Review
and Fmil                                                                                   Mid-Term Review
Mganaemen
.  Stenheing DWfl's                    SSPF            11/93         11/94          iS          Annual Review
reguatory functions.
.  Developing UMA's capability         SSPF            11/93          8/94          12          Annual Review
for Carying out EIas nd
monitor implementation of
I ecommendaons.
Tining!'                               SSF            11/93         11/95          10          Annual Review/
_______    Mid-Term Review
eort Refonn Pre                     __                           _
B Evaluaton of economic and           IC/ENP           5/93          7/93           4           Annual Review
financial impAc6 of  aative
prvatization schemes.
Asset valuation and preparation       ENP             10/93         12/95          10          Annual Review
of bid documes for                                                                         Mid-Term Reviww
conesioning pOrt as and/or
activiti".
.  Implemenation of ICAO's                                                    I
agreed recommendations on         SECOPY            5/93          11/94          54          Annual Review
airpo magenent procedure                                                                   Mid-Term Roview
Design d implementation of a
management nsysem for bridge        DOC             10/93         6/94           30          Annual Review
I/      Annex 2 provides detils of a preliminary tining progrm.



- 29 -
D. The Action Plans
Actions to be Taken
2.22    The main sectoral issues were identified in discussions with the Government during the
preparation of IDA's Transport Sector Strategy Paper for Honduras (Report No. 19285-HO of April
10, 1992). Based upon the report's findings, the Govermment selected a series of priority actions and
incorporated them into action plans covering policy and institutional reforms, as detailed in Annex 1
and summarized below. Most of the reforms in the highway subsector will be carried out with IDB's
financed technical assistance under their ongoing project. IDB and IDA have closely collaborated to
help the Government of Honduras develop a comprehensive policy for the road subsector. The
inclusion in the Action Plans of those measures to be implemented with IDB's support, provides IDA
a vehicle for a continuous dialogue with the Government and the IDB on the full range of key road
subsector issues such as road pricing, axle-load controls and DGCCA's development of performance
budgets to strengthen accountability. Progress in implementing the Action Plans would be monitored
during project supervision through annual and mid-term reviews (para. 2.34).
2.23    At the institutional level, reforms would aim to: strengthen SECOPT's capacity to plan and
regulate and to integrate environmental concerns into sector management; and (ii) revise the present
regulatory framework. The main actions contemplated to attain these objectives are:
(a)  develop five-year rolling Transport Investment Plans;
(b) strengthen the planning capabilities of SECOPT, SSPF, and the modal agencies by
introducing the necessary planning methodologies and providing tools and staff
training;
(c) develop DGT's capacity to carry out its regulatory functions by upgrading
methodologies for the evaluation of urban transport pricing, strengthening policy
analysis, and developing the necessary data base including on vehod:, fleet,
composition, age, and safety;
(d) expand the role of the Environmental Unit in SECOPT to encompass all transport
modes;
(e) develop environmental guidelines for all transport modes and the necessary standards
to measure the environmental impact of various transport projects;
(f) revise the present Transport Law and related regulations in order to increase
competition in freight transport; and
(g) target urban transport subsidies to the lowest income groups.
2.24    In the hiLhway subhctor, the objectives are to:



- 30 -
(a) increase SRCOPT's accountability for road maintenance through the development of
performance budgets;
(b)  develop SECOPT's capacity for contract management;
(c) strengthen DGC's and DGCCA's engineering standards by developing appropriate
manuals;
(d) review the present system of axle-load controls and, based on the results, implement
an enforceable system that would ensure Honduras' compliance with Central American
agreements on vehicle weights and dimensions; and
(e) develop a system for monitoring road user charges and the mechanism to adjust
charges when needed.
2.25    In the port subsector, reforms would aim to improve efficiency in the provision of port
services through the promotion of competition and greater private-sector participation in selected port
activities, and strengthen investment decisions. These objectives would be attained through the
following proposed actions:
(a) transferring operational responsibility for the port of La Ceiba to the Municipal
Government or the local Chamber of Commerce, concession Puerto San Lorenzo ard
Puerto Castilla to private operators and transfer to the private sector selected
areas/activities in Puerto Cortes. This action would include preparation of financial
and personnel plans for ENP, revision of tariffs and revision of legal aspects of
changes;
(b) retain a team of consultants to help ENP to transfer the selected port activities to the
private sector; inspection and classification of the installation and equipment to be
subject to concession, lease or sale; and preparation of bidding documents;
(c) establishi cost-based tariffs in the port system; and
(d) set up a separate administration for the Puerto Cortes container terminal to permit the
terminal to operate as an independent unit.
2.26    The objectives for the civil aviation subsector are to 2':
(a) reorganize and strengthen DGAC capacity to carry out the responsibilities vested in it
by law, including design and implementation of an organizational structure for the
subsector to permit the airports to operate on a commercial basis;
(b) design and implement operational procedures for the airports (cost centers, billing,
etc.);
2/ Most of thews objectives will be pursued under the UNDP financed SECOPT-ICAO program for Civil Aviation
Dovelopment.



- 31 -
(c)  prepare a National Development Plan for Civil Aviation enabling DGAC to carry out
timely development of the airport infrastructure and services under its jurisdiction,
evaluate and approve investment projects and promote the systematic development of
the activities that the law assigns to it; and
(d)  increase operational efficiency through adequate training for compliance with
internationally accepted norms, methods and procedures and for adequate preventive
maintenance of electronic systems and airport infrastructure.
2.27    The main reforms in the railway subsector aim to:
(a) concession usable assets to interested operators, primarily the Tela Railway Co.; and
(b) phase out remaining operations by 1996 through a detailed program involving the
gradual and orderly reduction of FNH traffic and personnel.
E. Project Cost and Financing
Project Cost
2.28    The total cost of the 1993-1996 TSIP is US$545.7 million including contingencies
(Table 2.1). The base costs are estimated as of June 1992. Foreign costs have been estimated at
62% of the works included in the program. For items A. through E. in Table 2.2, supervision of
works is estimated at 8% of the cost of the works, and a physical contingency of 10% has been
added, which is considered reasonable as none of the works present major risks. The price
contingency assumes that the IDA-financed subprojects would be executed in four years, I.e. two
years less than the LAC profile for similar projects, taking into account DGC's and DGCCA excellent
record in the prompt execution of their ongoing investment program. Price contingencies were
calculated in line with IDA guidelines, which assume international price escalation at a rate of 3.9%
per yeat during 1993 and 1994, and 3.8% thereafter. The rate of escalation for international prices
was also assumed to be applicable to local costs (when expressed in dollar terms) which implies that
the exchange rate is expected to be periodically adjusted to reflect the difference between internal
inflation and the evolution of world prices.
Prject Fnancng
2.29    For specific subprojects amounting to about 80% of the investment program sources of
financing have already been secured and/or identified and 56% of the works have already been
started. IDA would finance selected components of this program, totalling about US$65 million
(Table 2.2). IDB would finance about US$190 million of the road component. Of this amount.
US$110 million correspond to the ongoing MDB operation for which most subprojects have ben
identified, and US$80 million to a proposed IDB follow-on project currently under preparation, which
would focus in the rehabilitation of the secondary road network. CABEI has approved loans for a
total of US$30 million for ongoing works to widen the Northern Highway, and for road rehabilitation
and the replacement of temporary bridges in the Northern plain. USAID is expected to finance
US$20 million for paving secondary roads which already have traffic levels above 350 v.p.d. Road



- 32 -
rehabilitation works financed with a US$20 million loan from the Government of Taiwan, mosdy in
the Juticalpa-Catacamas road serving the Olancho region, have already started and their completion is
programmed for 1994. Negotiations with a Spanish firm for turn-ke" projects in the airports of San
Pedro Sula and Roatan, are already at an advaaced stage and contract signature is expected to take
place in January 1993. Financing from the Spanish Government totalling US$50 million has already
been secured. Table 2.4 summarizes the estimated financing plan for the investment program. Since
most of the financing provided by the donors is already tied to specific subprojects for which there is
no cofinancing, pro ^t implementation would not pose significant problems with respect to financing
and procurement coordination. For the annual updating of the investment program for the road
subsector, and for the implementation of policy and institutional reforms in tht road subsector, IDB
and IDA would continue the close collaboration that existed during the process of project preparation.
2.30    The Central Government contribution to the 1993-1996 TSIP is estimated at US$121
million, or about US$30 million on average per year. This is in line with past allocation of domestic
resources to the sector. Budgetary funding from the Central Government is estimated at US$42
million in 1993, declining to US$35 million in 1994, US$26 million in 1995 and US$18 million in
1996, as the bacldog of road rehabilitation is cleared. The 1993 budget includes the necessary
fimancing. The proposed program does not include possible needed investwments for the replacement
of the Tegucigalpa airport, which may pose a significant additional demand on budgetary resources in
the 1995-1996 period. For the following years, should counterpart funding be less than programmed,
the Government and IDA would agree on investment priorities within the sector during the annual and
mid-term implementation reviews (pdra. 2.34).
Table 24: FAtnad  Financing Distribution by Major 'Donors
Donor           Local   Foreign      Total
IDA                     26.0       39.0       65.0
IDB                     76.0      114.0      190.0
CABEI                   12.0       18.0       30.0
USAD                     8.0       12.0       20.0
Government of Spain     14.4       35.6       50.0
Government of Taiwan     8.0       12.0       20.0
Other                    3.6        5.4        9.0
Central Government      48.4       72.6      121.0
Unidentified            1n.8       26.3       40.0
Total                  207.2     338.5      545.7



- 33 -
2.31    The proposed credit would finance about 12% of the four-year investment program and
78% of the, ^ost of the selected components (see Table 2.2), with the remaining 22% to, be financed
by the Government of Honduras. To avoid delays in commencing project implementation, which
would be costly both in terms of increased infrastructure deterioration and subsequent need for
revising engineering studies, retroactive financing for eligible road rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance expenditures incurred after July 31, 1992 but not before twelve months prior to the
expected date of credit signature would be provided for civil works, up to a maximum amount of
US$1.7 million equivalent.
F. Project Ekecution
Implementation Arrangements
2.32    The Government is expected to execute the proposed project in about four years under its
own responsibility, except for the implementation of the Action Plan for the port subsector which
would be under the responsibility of the IC, SECOPT and ENP, and the Action Plan for the Railways
for which FNH would be responsible (para. 1.44). SECOPT would be responsible for coordinating
overall project implementation, including monitoring the regulatory reforms and the Sector Policy
Declaration, and for the execution of the civil works and technical assistance financed under the
proposed credit. A Project Implementation Unit headed by a full-time Project Coordinator (PC), with
qualifications satisfactory to IDA, would be responsible for monitoring sector developments and for
ensuring that timely action is taken to achieve the objectives of the Sector Policy Declaration and
related Action Plans. The PC, who would directly report to the Vice-Minister of SSPF is expected to
play a key role in coordinating the preparation and prepare, as necessary, progress reports and the
supporting documentation for the anmnal and mid-term reviews that IDA and the Government would
use to supervise project implementation against key monitoring indicators and other criteria (para.
2.34). The PC would be supported by one engineer and one accountant. The Government has
appointed a PC, with qualifications satisfactory to IDA, for the proposed project. Full staffing of the
Project Coordinating Unit would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 3.2(d)). SECOPT
would be responsible for implementing the civil works to be financed under the project. For the
airport subsector, SECOPT would assume responsibility for implementing the Action Plan.
Responsibility for the technical assistance program for transport planning and transport policy and
regulations would be assigned, respectively, to SSPF and DGT. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government on the functions and responsibilities of the PC (para. 3.10)).
Project Reporing
2.33    At negotiations, agreement was reached that SECOPT would submit semi-annual progress
reports to IDA, by May 31 and November 30 of each year for the previous semester (para. 3.1(k)).
As important objectives of the project are to support Government reforms to reorganize and privatize
transport operations, remove regulatory barriers that unnecessarily increase the cost of transport, and
achieve the objectives included in the Sector Policy Declaration, the semi-annual progress reports
should review progress in these areas as well as in the implementation of all project components. The
implementing agencies would be responsible for preparing progress and completion reports on their
respective components. The PC would be responsible, with the assistance of the implementing
agencies, for physical and financial monitoring of project activities; and would coordinate preparation



- 34 -
of all reports and consolidate the same for submission to IDA. The Borrower would also be required
to present to IDA a project completion report not later than six months after the closing date of the
credit (para. 3.1(1)).
Annual and Mid-term Reviews
2.34    By no later than June 30 of each year, starting in 1993, IDA and the Government would
conduct formal reviews of progress made in implementing the proposed project. Should these
reviews indicate that progress toward meting the project objectives is unsatisfactory, the Government
would prepare, not later than one month after said review, and execute to IDA's satisfaction, remedial
action plans. The annual reviews would provide an opportunity to assess project performance (and
identify remedial actions) including progress made in: achieving the objectives of the Transport
Sector Policy Declaration and related Action Plans (Annex 1); reorganizing and deregulating the
transport sector and in implementing the Institutional Development Program (Annex 2); the
implementation of the Bridge Management system (Annex 4); the implementation of the investment
program and the updating of the four-year rolling TSIP, including the screening of all projects over
US$3 million to ensure the project's technical and economic soundness; funding arrangements; the
pace of physical project execution; achieving the project monitoring indicators (Annex 9); and
evaluating project management and coordination, in particular: (i) the performance of the PC and
his/her ability to coordinate sector institutions to achieve the project objectives, and (ii) technical
ability and soundness of judgement in the areas of procurement and disbursement. After about two
years of project implementation (by June 30, 1995), IDA and the Government would conduct a mid-
term review of project execution. In addition to covering all areas included in the annual reviews, the
mid-term would pay particular attention to: (a) the overall progress being made in achieving the aims
of the project and of the Government's Transport Sector Policy Declaration; (b) the progress made in
implementing the Action Plans; and (c) compliance with and possible adjustments to the project
monitoring indicators (Annex 9) paying particular attention to: (i) achievement of road maintenance
physical and financial targets and increased accountability for road management; (ii) increased
involvement of the private sector in port operations and the resulting gradual reduction of ENP staff
(Annex 5); (iii) separation of the normative and operating functions of DGCA and transfer of
operation and budgetary responsibilities to airport managers (Annex 6); (iv) gradual, orderly phase-
out of FNH services according to a clearly defined program aimed at discontinuing FNH operations
by 1996 (Annex 7); and (v) revised transport regulations designed to free the trucking industry from
price and entry regulations and to target urban transport subsidies to low income groups. Annex 9
presents further details on the supervision plan, the proposed agenda for the annual and mid-term
reviews, the key monitoring indicators, and the targets dates that will be used to review progress in
implementing the Action Plans and to identify the areas requiring remedial actions. At negotiations,
IDA reached agreement with the Government on the scope and timing of such reviews and its
commitment to the implementation, if necessary, of satisfactory remedial action plans (para. 3. 1(m)).
G. Procurement and Consultancy Services
2.35    Procurement of goods and civil works, would be done in accordance with IDA's Guidelines
for Procurement (May, 1992 version). To the extent practicable, the procurement of goods would be
done bv grouping the various equipment/materials items in bid packages estimated to cost the



- 35 -
equivalent of US$250,000 or more. The contracting of consulting services to be financed under the
Institutional Development Component and for the supervision of civil works would be done in
accordance to IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981 version). Details are shown
in Table 2.5.
Table 2.5: Procureurt Method
(US$ million)
ICB            LCB           OTHER          TOTAL
Civil Works                   48.60          24.60                          73.20
(38.88)        (16.44)                       (55.32)
Constdtuls                      -                            8.60            8.60
(8.60)         (8.60)
Equipment                     0.94             -             0.14            1.08
(0.94)                        (0.14)          (1.08)
Totad                         49.54           24.60          8.74           82.88
(39.82)        (16.44)        (8.74)         (65.00)
2.36    Procurement procedures would be as follows:
(a)  bid packages or contracts for the supply of goods estimated to cost US$250,000
equivalent each or more, and contracts for civil works estimated to cost BS$1 million
equivalent each or more, would be procured following ICB procedures in accordance
with IDA's Guidelines. Procurement for civil works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of US$5 million per contract, would be subject to pre-qualification of
contractors under procedures satisfactory to IDA. In ICB procurement of goods,
regional, including domestic manufacturers would be granted the margin of preference
accorded to members of the Central American Common Market. In ICB procurement
of civil works, domestic contractors would be granted a margin of preference of 7.5%
in accordance with the procedures set forth in para. 5 of Appendix 2 of IDA
Guidelines;
(b)  civil works of less than US$1 million per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$24.6 million, equivalent would be procured through LCB procedures satisfactory
to IDA. Foreign bidders would be given an equal opportunity to compete under LCB
if they wish to do so;
(c)  all contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more, all
contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1 million or more, and the
first LCB contract for goods and for works would be subject to IDA's prior review in
accordance with paras. 2 and 4 of the IDA's procurement Guidelines. Overall, IDA
review is expected to cover no less than 72% of total contract values, which is
satisfactory; and



- 36 -
(d) contracts for ancillary equipment required for the Institutional Development
Component (PC computers, software, office equipment, training equipment, and a
small number of vehicles) estimated to cost less than US$25,000 and up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.12 million will be awarded following local/international
shopping procedures based on comparing price quotations received from at least three
eligible suppliers. Although contracts for goods larger than US$25,000 are not
expected for this component, contracts exceeding US$25,000 but below US$250,000
would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.37    Agreement to the above procurement arrangements including the use of standard bidding
documents was reached during negotiations (para. 3.1(n)). To minimize possible adverse impacts on
the environment during the implementation of the civil works, the bidding documents specifications
would include clauses under which the contractors would be required to prevent, minimize or mitigate
environmental damage in line with the recommendations contained in the Eas. A recent assessment
by IDA of existing procurement procedures in Honduras indicates that they are not fully compatible
with IDA Guidelines. The procedures unacceptable to IDA are remedied through provisions included
in the Credit Agreement which would be applicable to the proposed project.
H. Disbursements and Auditing
2.38    The proposed credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1997 and the closing date
would be December 31, 1997. The disbursement schedule (Table 2.6) is two years less than the
standard profile applicable to Honduras, reflecting the excellent record of SECOPT in implementing
Bank/!DA financed projects and the time-slice cha acter of the proposed operation. Annex 10 shows
the estimated quarterly disbursement schedule.
2.39    Disbursements would be administered by SECOPT. Disbursements would be against
periodic statement of expenditures (SOE), except in those cases when prior IDA review of
procurement documentation is required. In order to speed up disbursements, a special account in US
dollars with an authorized allocation of US$4 million (sufficient for about four months' worth of
financeable expenditures) would be established in the Banco Central de Honduras. SECOPT would
be entitled to make periodic withdrawals from the special account at the exchange rate applicable on
the day the special account is debited. IDA would replenish the special account for the amount of
withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at the request of the Borrower.
2.40    Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(a) 80% of expenditures on: (i) rehabilitation of trunk roads; (ii) construction and
rehabilitation of bridges; (iii) rehabilitation of the runway in the San Pedro Sula
Airport; and (iv) rehabilitation of feeder roads;
(b) 80% of expenditures on periodic road maintenance until an aggregate amount of
US$4.8 million equivalent has been disbursed; 60% of expenditures on periodic road
maintenance until an aggregate amount of US$8.4 has been disbursed; and 45%
thereafter;



- 37 -
(c) 100% of expenditures on consulting services for technical assistance and supervision;
and
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment and 80% of local expenditures.
Table 2.6: Fstmated Disbursmment
(US$ million)
__'__________  1993        1994       1995       1996  J  1997
innual      S.70         13.3       21.6       14.6        9.8
L..v5.7'         19.0         40.6     55.2      65.0
2.41 At negotiations, agreement was reached that SECOPT would maintain separate accounts for
each of the project components. SECOPT would maintain adequate documentation for SOE's
(para. 2.39) which would be subject to annual audits. The special account at the Banco Central of
Honduras would also be audited once a year. All audits would be carried out by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and in accordance with terms of reference to be approved by IDA. Audit reports
would be furnished to IDA within five months after the close of the Government's fiscal year (para.
3. 1 (o)).
1. Economic Justification
2.42 The project is expected to support the introduction of major policy and structural reforms and
help strengthening the sector's institutions through the implementation of the various Action Plans
covering a wide range of policy and institutional improvements. By addressing sector specific issues
and overriding institutional weaknesses, the project would contribute to enhance Honduras
comparative advantages in interoational trade and substantially reduce transport related distortions in
the economy. Direct benefits of the project would be derived from: (a) increasing the quality and
cost-effectiveness of transport services through: (1) improving the efficiency and accountability in the
road subsector; (ii) making ports and airport services more responsive to user needs; and (iii)
eliminaing intermodal distortions by phasing out railway services; (b) strengthening sector planning
and policy formulation; and (c) improving the sustanability of resource use through the development
of a technical foundation for an environmentally sound transport arrangement. The project's benefits
would therefore go well beyond the reurns on specific individual investments.
2.43 Due to the difficulty of preparing quantitative estimates related to public sector policy and
institutional reforms, no economic rate of return could be calculated for the policy and institutional
development components of the project. However, the project would bring significant direct benefits
10/   Correpond to the initial US$4 millian deposit in the Special Account plus retroactive financing of up to
US$1.7 million for oeble expendtume inurrd after July 31, 1992.



- 38 -
in terms of increased transport sector productivity, while generating public sector net savings
conservatively estimated at about US$20 million per year from: (a) reduced cost of road maintenance
by contracting works with the private sector; (b) reformulation of urban transport subsidies; and (c)
elimination of FNH's deficit.
2.44 The economic viability of about 75% of the investments included in the 1993-1996 TSIP has
been estimated, yielding EER's ranging from 12% to above 50%, except for a small amount of
construction of access roads with a strong social impact (para. 2.12). The analysis of works in the
road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance component was based on a detailed inventory of the
existing paved roads and the results obtained from the application of the HDM m. About 259 links
totalling 5,546 km were evaluated, of which 2,400 km were identified for rehabilitation, including
those proposed to be financed under the project. Because of lack of timely maintenance, these roads
are entering the critical period when deterioration accelerates. The maintenance policies used in the
analyses were developed in collaboration with DGC and DGCCA and the unit costs of maintenance
operations used are reasonable for the region. Traffic volumes and compositions are based on actual
counts supplemented with origin/destination data. The EER for these works range from 12% to
above 50%. In the case of feeder roads, the economic justification was based on the evaluation of the
entire network (8,619 km), and more than 1,500 kn were identified for rehabilitation or periodic
maintenance, with ERRs also ranging from 12% to above 50%. The analysis of these roads was
based on the producer surplus method, for which the value of the additional agricultural production
attributed to the reduction in transport costs was quantified. Under the current investment financing
constraints, however, not all feeder road projects with a positive net present value that also meet the
agreed technical and environmental criteria can be executed. The final selection was made on the
basis of the export corridor concept, selecting groups of roads feeding the main traffic arteries.
Investments in the rehabilitation of the airport runway in San Pedro Sula have an estimated EER of
20% . Annex 11 provides further details of the economic evaluation of the first year investment
program.
J. Environmental Impact
2.45 The proposed project's Environmental Category is B. All components eligible for financing
under the proposed credit would be executed by competent contractors, supervised by qualified
engineers and would neither entail significant excavation nor interfere with the fauna or flora. All
contracts for civil works would include appropriate safeguards regarding materials to be used,
disposal of removed material, management of quarries, etc. Also, cleaning of clogged roadside
ditches and drains as part of routine maintenance operations would restore runoff to the designed
channels and reduce erosion. Furthermore, all works under the program are subject, as part of the
feasibility analysis, to environmental impact assessments carried out by local consultants. IDA has
reviewed the capabilities of the local consulting industry and has found them satisfactory. In the case
of the design of bridges in hydrologically difficult areas, international experts with qualifications
satisfactory to IDA would be retained to ensure sound environmental treatment of river courses.
Also, the credit would help strengthen the Environmental Unit in SECOPT, centralizing the
responsibility and capacity for environmental assessments in the sector and providing it with the
necessary resources to monitor the implementation of the recommended mitigating actions. T!he
project would not finance construction of new roads, or works that would lead to population



- 39 -
displacements. IDA has been provided with satisfactory EAs for the road rehabilitation works to be
financed under the first year program.
K. Project Risks and Safeguards
2.46 The proposed project does not pose any significant technical risks. A detailed first year
program of works was prepared by SECOPT and appraised by IDA. As the works to be financed
under the project are technically simple - rehabilitation and periodic maintenance- the quantities are
not expected to change substantially from the engineering estimates. Because of the project's policy
emphasis, the main risks are related to the Government's sustained commitment to the needed
institutional reforms, and its ability to muster the political support to implement them, particularly in
the roads and civil aviation subsector, where the issues are the most pressing. These risks are
mitigated by the significant up-front actions, such as closure of the La Ceiba railway line, signature of
the UNDP-ICAO-SECOPT agreement, and substantial reductions in DGCCA's staff that have already
been taken. To address the potential risk that the next administration may falter in carrying out the
agreed reforms, the project arrangements provide for joint annual progress reviews by the
Government and IDA to enable IDA to continue to have an effective dialogue for implementation of
the reforms. Any significant policy reversals would be an event of default (para. 3.1(e)). The risk
that SECOPT might have insufficient capacity to implement a complex project involving substantial
sector reforms was taken into account in the design of an intensive supervision plan and the inclusion
under the project of short-term technical assistance to support SECOPT in those areas, such as
concession arrangements, which require special expertise. Finally, the risk of funding shortages
cannot be discounted, and may lead to slower than planned implementation of the investment
program. Annual and mid-term reviews will provide the opportunity to review project priorities in
light of possible budgetary constraints and ensure that subprojects with the highest economic returns
are executed first.
HI. AGREENMIS REACEIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1   During negotiations agreement was reached:
(a)   that the Government will: (i) allocate each year the necessary funds for road
maintenance; (ii) maintain its road network and (iii) continue the staff reduction of
DGCCA, all according to the schedule set forth in the key project indicators (para.
1.32);
(b)   that the Government will implement the agreed Action Plan for the port subsector and
cause ENP to reduce its staff according to the schedule set forth in the key project
indicators (para. 1.4);
(c)   that the Government will prepare and furnish to IDA, not later than October 31, 1993
a satisfactory operational and maintenance plan for the airports and provide in its
annual budget, starting in 1994, sufficient funds for DGAC to implement said plan



- 40 -
until an entity with juridical personality and financial autonomy is established to
operate the airports (para. 1.49);
(d)   that the Government will implement the agreed Action Plan for the railway subsector
and cause FNH to reduce its operating deficit in accordance to the schedule set forth in
the key project indicators (para. 1.52);
(e)    on (i) the Transport Sector Policy Declaration; (ii) that the Government will carry out
its Action Plans to address the key sector issues according to the timetables set forth in
the Action Plans; and (iii) that it would be an event of default if the Government takes
any action or adopts any policy w.thin the sector which is not consistent with the
policies outlined in the Transport Sector Policy Declaration (para. 2.9);
(f)   on: (i) the 1993-1996 TSIP; and (ii) that any change to the 1993-1996 TSIP, would
have to be satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.10);
(g)   that no investment with an EER below 12% and/or which is not environmentally
sound, both evaluated using methods and parameters satisfactory to IDA, would be
included or subsequently entered into the 1993-1996 expenditure program, except for
investments in access roads not exceeding 10% of the total expenditures in access
roads. The latter should: (i) comply with enviromental criteria; (ii) not exceed 14
km in length; and (iii) have a total cost not exceeding US$650 per capita of the
population served (para. 2.12);
.(h)   on the terms of reference for the technical assistance to implement the Govenment's
Institutional Development Plan, support the execution of the port and airport Action
Plans and establish a Bridge Management System in SECOPT (para. 2.21);
(i)   that: (i) the consultants for the implementation of the port reforms would be hired
prior to October 31, 1993; (ii) the consultants to carry out the first and second phases
of the Institutional Development Program would start work, respectively, not later than
July 31, 1993 and December 15, 1993; and (iii) the consultants for the implementation
of the Bridge Management System would be retained prior to October 31, 1993
(para. 2.21);
U)    on the functions and responsibilities of the PC (para. 2.32);
(k)   that SECOPT will submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA by May 31 and
November 30 of each year for the previous semester (para. 2.33);
(1)   that the Government will present to IDA a project completion report not later than six
months after the closing date of the credit (para. 2.33);
(m)   that the Government will carry out jointly with IDA, by no later than June 30 of each
year, beginning in 1993, an annual review, as well as a mid-term review, by no later
than June 30, 1995, of the progress made in achieving thX project objectives and, if
necessary, prepare and execute to the satisfaction of IDA, remedial plans of action
agreed during the annual and mid-term reviews (para. 2.34);



- 41 -
(n)   procurement arrangements (para. 2.37); and
(o)   auditing arrangements (para. 2.41).
3.2   Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a)    SSPF has initiated its operations (para. 1.14);
(b)    UMA has: (i) started its operations within SSPF; an6 'i) employed competent and
qualified staff in adequate numbers to carry out its opetations (para. 1.24);
(c)   the Government has appointed consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
to carry out the technical assistance for the evaluation of the economic and financial
impact of different leasing/concessioning alternatives in the port subsector (r^ra.
2.21); and
(d)    SECOPT has fully staffed the Project Coordinating Unit (par, 2.32).
3.3    Hiring the consultants for the technical assistance to the airport subsector would be a condition
of disbursement of funds for civil works in the San Pedro Sula Airport (para. 2.21).
3.4    With the above conditions, the rroposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$65
million equivalent to the Republic of Honduras, repayable in 40 years, including a 10 year grace
period, at IDA's standard fee of 0.75% per year.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 11
GOVERNNT OF THE REPUTBLIC OF HONDURAS
SECRETARIAT OF COMMUNICATIONS, PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
(SECOPI)
Policy Declaration and Action Plan for the
Transport Sector
1.    Macroeconomic Considerations
The Government of Honduras has adopted a macroeconomic plan, which has been
implemented through an economic adjustment program. The objectives of this program have
been to foster efficiency and effectiveness in the administration of the Government's
resources, as well as to establish fiscal discipline in the public sector and reduce significantly
the budget deficit. This initiative was enacted as law in the filrst months of our
administration, when our Congress approved the "Law of Structural Adjustment of the
Economy" (Decree 18-90).
As a matter of policy, the Govermnent envisages the participation of the private sector
in all those activities that have been traditionally carried out by the public sector, but where
the private sector can achieve greater efficiency. The Government also seeks to promote
investment and encourage the growth of our exports so that our economy can grow in a
sustainable fashion and benefit all our population, particularly those who traditionally have
benefited the least.
As part of its economic policy, the Government has begun a decentralization and,
whenever pertinent, a deregulation process. This will provide the enabling environment for
the private sector to grow and compete freely, and whenever this is not possible because
natural monopoly conditions are encountered, it will also lead to a transparent and equitable
regulatory framework.
In another area, our Administration has made important advances to redefine the role
of government, by restricting it to those functions that naturally correspond to it. In this
regard, the recent enactment by Congress of the "Law to Modernize the State" provides an
institutional framework that eliminates the unnecessary controls and regulations that served as
obstacles for the normal conduct of business, while at the same time allowing for a reduction
of the size of government to a size consistent with the modem concept of an efficient and
expeditious administration.
With the adoption of these policies our Country will be able to successfully compete
in the regional markets that might result as a consequence of the efforts that we are making
together with other Governments in the area.
2.    Geneal Transport Policy
Government policy for the transport sector envisages the participation of the private
sector in the administration of those services in which it has shown a greater efficiency and



- 43 -                           ANNEL1
Page 2 of 11
effectiveness. This policy will in turn reflect itself in the downsizing of the government with
the corresponding reduction in public expenditure.
With regards to the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of our road system,
private sector participation is already a reality. In fact, we feel certain that we will meet our
target for 1993, which requires that at least 70% of all road maintenance be carried out by
private contractors.
At present we are in the process of preparing several bills to be submitted to Congress
to restructure the ports and airports subsectors, as well as to modernize our Transport Law.
These bills will include the transfer of certain activities to the private sector in an orderly,
transparent and competitive fashion. Purthermore, in the case of the Transport Law, the
review will include our intention to foster unimpeded access and competition. Finally, the
Government will review the mechanism presently in place to subsidize public transportation in
the cities to ensure that it benefits only those who need it, while avoiding waste and abuses.
The Ministry of Communications, Public Works and Transport, SECOPT, has already
begun the preparation of studies for the control of vehicle weights and for the improvement of
road maintenance. The Ministry also routinely carries out preinvestment studies, which
include the economic and environmental evaluation and subsequently the design of the selectea
projects. This process provides the basis for the preparation of the Ministry's investment
program.
The, continuity of the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of our road system
is provided by the flnancing that we obtain from multilateral organizations and friendly
governments for a time-slice of the investment program. The selection of the works is based
partly on the results of a planning model used by the Ministry, which analyzes the different
options in a national context and which makes it possible to reflect the changes and
innovations that occur in the sector. This results in an optimal use of the funds available.
3.    Legal, Iastitutional and Regulatory Framework
In order to make it possible for SECOPT to fully discharge its duties, the Government
has created a new office of Under Secretary of Planning and Finance. This will give the
sector planning area a level and prominence consistent with the important role that it must
play. Similarly, in order to better study and protect the environment, a new Environmental
Unit has been created as part of the Department of Roads. This new unit will ensure that the
possible negative impact that the works built by SECOPT, and other government agencies that
work in the sector, might have on the environment is avoided or mitigated.
4.    The Road Subsector
Despite the important investments made in our road system, much work remains to be
done in order to make it an instrument that fully supports the development of the country and
the central american integration process. In order to preserve the investmnits in the sector,
the Government has decided to rehabilitate the roads that had deteriorated and to establish a
maintenance system that prevents further deterioration.



Page 3 of 11
The sectors to be rehabilitated were chosen by means of a ranking process that
considers the subsector as whole and that includes all the works identified as part of the Road
Master Plan prepared in 1989. The analysis used the model HDM m, which has been
adopted by SECOPT as its basic planning tool. This model was also used to update the main
and secondary road Master Plan in May 1991, and the access roads Master Plan in July 1992.
Finally, SECOPT will engage consultants to assist in the review of its standards for bridge
and road design, including measures to protect the environment.
As previously mentioned, the Government has begun to restructure and rationalize the
activities of SECOPT so that those activities that can be carried out more efficiently by the
private sector are transferred to it. To implement this policy. SECOPT has begun to hire
private contractors to maintain the road network, and it is estimated that in 1993 70% of all
maintenance work will be carried out by contractors. This measure has resulted in the
reduction of the staff of the Directorate General for Road Maintenance, from 5,000 employees
in 1989 to 3,600 in May 1991, and 2,350 by end of 1992. It is estimated that by 1994 the
number of employees will be around 1,700. It should be mentioned that this significant
reduction has been accomplished without producing more unemployment siice SECOPT
managed to transfer most of its former employees to the private contractors, acting at times as
placement agency. This solicitous attitude allowed SECOPT to successfully manage a
situation that could otherwise have been unmanageable.
The policies implemented by SECOPT have resulted in marked growth of small
private contractors, as well as of very small and even individual contractors. Similarly,
efficiency has almost doubled, considering the lower costs and shorter completion times of the
contracted works. Furthermore, the reduction of the participation of SECOPT in maintenance
led to considerable amount of idle equipment in the Ministry, which has been transferred to
the private sector through public auctions. This has in turn resulted in the expansion of the
private contractors, which has led to greater competition, lower prices and increased capacity
to undertake larger works. SECOPT has also improved the utilization of its asphalt plants,
increasing the production from 15 MT per day to 800 MT per day. After covering its own
needs, SECOPT sells the rest to private contractors and other Government agencies, which
makes the operesion of these plants a viable and economic proposition.
As part of its policy to improve and assure the proper maintenance of its road system,
the Government has decided to set up a Road Fund. To this end, SECOPT is in the process
of selecting the consulting firm that will study the different options available, including
contributions from the users, as well as the provision of funds by other agencies. The study
will recommend the best alternative and propose a plan for its implementation, including the
definition of the operating systems and the required legislation. We estimate that this study
will be completed in mid 1993 and that the Fund could be created in 1994.
To protect the investment made in the road system, SECOPT will also prepare, with
the assistance of consultants, a study to improve matnance planning, including the control
of vehicle weight. Finally, to expand, rehabilitate and maintain the road network, SECOPT
has prepared an investment program for the 1992-1996 period, which incorporates a gradual
increase in the funds allocated to main ce up to approximately US$45 million in 1996.



45-                                   I
Page 4 0f 11
5.    Ports Subsector
Consistent with the Goverment's policy to increase efficiency in the economy
through fostering a greater participation of the private sector in those areas where it has a
comparative advantage, the Board of Directors of the National Ports Authority, ENP,
approved in June 1992 an Action Plan that defines the role to be played by the public and
private sectors in the operation of our ports. The Action Plan also provides a framework for
decision making and policy definition in this very important area of our economy. ENP also
set up a Technical Unit so that, together with consultants that will soon be hired, it can
prepare studies to improve the efficiency of the operation of our ports through the
participation of the private sector. We andcipate that this can be accomplished through the
contracting of the operation and/or lease of zones, areas and/or port services, as well as
through the creation of an administratively and operationally independent unit in ENP to
manage the container terminal in Puerto Cortes.
In order to expedite and supervise the implementation of the Action Plan, the
Government created, by Decree 001945 dated September 16, 1992, a Committee made up of
representatives of SECOPT, the Ministry of Economy and Commerce and the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit. The Committee has been supervising the process and it will be an
important instrument to ensure the implementation of the Plan.
Beside completing the definition of policies to modernize the port subsector and
leading the transformation of the subsector, the Committee (assisted by coasultants to be hired
under the Credit that we are requesting from IDA) will also have the following important
responsibilities: (a) study the operations of the port in La Ceiba, considering inter ali the
transfer of the cargo operations to the Customs Office and the docking facilities to the
Chamber of Commerce or the Municipality; (b) take steps to ensure that a tariff study is
prepared based on the costs of operating the ports, with emphasis on Puerto Cortes; (c) defne
the participation of tLt private sector in the financing required to rehabilitate the dock at Tela
and determine the mechanisms and contracts required for the efficient operation of that port;
(d) ensure that the operation of the ports in Puerto Cortes, Castilla and San Lorenzo is studied
so as to identify those services that can be provided more efficiently by the private sector, and
(e) make a recommendation as to the role to be played by the National Port Authority in the
restructured port subsector.
Once the results of the above mentioned studies are available, the Government will
implemens all those measures that are consistent with its policy to improve the efficiency of
the port subsector. Finally, in that which concerns tariffs, the Government will ensure,
through its representatives in the Public Services Supervisory Commission, CNSSP, that the
Commission radfies that the tariffs that it authorizes are upper limits, and that the regulated
agencies are free to charge different tariffs provided that they do not exceed those authorized
by the Commission.
6.    Airport Subsector
Our Civil Aeronautics Law, although substantially correct and usefil, needs to be
updated in order to keep pace with the technological advances and the rapid progress of civil
aviation. Furthermore, the rather limited budget of the Ditmorate General of Civil
Aeronautics makes it impossible for it to provide an efficient and adequate airport service.
Finally, the international conventions and agreements signed by Honduras must be refected in



- 46 -                           AN X 1
Page 5 of 11
our legal system in order to more easily comply with the requirements of modern civil
aviation.
In order to increase the efficiency of the subsector, the Government has relied on the
advice provided by experts of the ICAO financed by UNDP. These experts have made
several important suggestions that have allowed us to begin improving the performance of the
subsector. Additionally, we expect to retain the services of other experts to provide assistance
in economics, planning and in the preparation of a Master Plan. Finally, the Government
intends to hire five experts to professionally run the Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula airports;
of these, two will be Hondurans in order to ensure the success of the program even after the
departure of the international experts. On the basis of plans prepared by these experts, the
Government will budget the amounts needed to properly operate and maintain our existing
facilities and we foresee that in three or four years the budgeted amounts will be compatible
with the income directly produced by the airports.
With regards to new investments, the Government will undertake only those that have
been shown to be economically feasible. Similarly, on the basis of the, Master Plan to be
prepared with the assistance of consultants, the Government will select the most efficient and
effective manner to manage the airports, including operation contracts with the private sector,
as well on the hiring of certain services or areas with private contractors.
7.    Railroad Subsector
In this subsector the Government intends to transfer to the private sector, and when
this proves not to be possible close down, all those activities for which service is presently
being provided by others and that cannot be run profltably by the Railways Authority, FNH.
In this manner we will increase the efficiency of the subsector and reduce the budget deflcit
without affecting the users, since there will always be several private contractors to continue
with the provision of equivalent services. SECOPT will use its experience to assist FNH to
help the personnel that must be laid off to find new employment.
Mauro Membreflo Tosta
Ministry of SECOPT
(Letter signed, December 23, 1992)



- 47 -                              ~~~~~AN=E    1
Page 6 of 11
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REABrILITATION PROJECT
GO's ACTION PLAN FOR TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORMS
THE INSTIrUTIONAL DEVELOPMET PLAN
|      .   -   _-  -          .                               l                  l    I~~~~~~~~~~~~MPACT
ORJECflVU  J  RumD               ACHON               IRfIPONSE3T_        I _   SFART-END   L  DIVISAGED
Strengthen SECOPra       Carty out pbhe one of       Through patcipatory workhops    SECOPT                    7/93-9/93     Improve ntonal
anwagwmm   and plng    SECOPrs Intuaoal              dfine: i) planning procedur;                                            transpottion
capabUltes.              Developmnt Pla              (i) the role of DOT; and (i)                                            plning. i
tehnical adeance and tuining
neds for phase two.
Prepare and discu  with IDA a  SECOPT                   9/93-10/93
staffing plan for the SSPF.
Implent suffng Plan            sECOPT                   1093-2/94
Carry out Second Phase of    Retain Consultanta            SBCOPT                     12/93
SECOPT's Inttonal
Developenat an:
Prer a Transport           Develop and implement a system    SECOFT/SSPF            12/9346/95    Improve national
Ivetmen Planing and        to asiSSPPF in plnning,                                                 transportstion
Corol ysnm.                budgedng, and monitoing rolling                                         plaing.
four-yer Transport Expenditure
Prea  a Trinig Pogram.   Psovido training progr  to        SBCOPT/SSPF              12/934/96
suengthen magm  in
national transporttion plnning
and budgeting.
Provide trining progrm for saff   SECOFT/SSPF           12/93-8/96     Improve resource
of modal agencies' plnning                                             management.
units.
Deveop SECOPr'           Deveop p-ooedure to         Esabliah a system for screening    SBECOPT/SSPP/        12M934/94      Inoorporate
cpbity to incorporate    incrporate er                nd rnkng inve_men  for         UMA                                     environmeal
anvironm_nal concemrs in   anlysis in the dedison    environmental impact                                                    conern in
tunport mon4ge L         rmking proess                                                                                       trport plannn |
Prepae Enironmenta             SBCOPT/SSPp/            12/93-12/94
Guideline to be used by        UMA
SECOPrT opertional divion
and civi works contracto
Prepr a tin  program       Deign and implmen a training    SECOPTrSSPF/             12V934/96
progrm for SECOPT's            UMA
opational divisions, contts
mad consuting fima on rlev
enviomen  problems and
procedume



-48-                                                ANEX1
Page 7 of 11
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
GOW's ACTION PLAN FOR TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORMS
TEE INSITTONAL DEVELOPENT PLAN
I -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I j IMPBACT
OUJUCRYM          ~DWITRUMDfl                      ACUON                                        MM=3UI    UAr-l  DWIAG VD
Camean &adve and         kim    an appmpprat nsd   -Piepa dnaR of nw T pmnh        SCOFr/Dar                1219S3/94a
.dk  zeaoq               trawo  for mad              Law liAW  g rglaiOa of                                               como on-a
We          lnd tbtNW"t reglationa.                  freigt an bE-ue ocffiely in
_rampast.                                            paaagap    to faay                                                   trnpoit.
* DIacus reviaion of w legI    SECOPr                    4/94
framewort with IDA.
- Implama the aeen fim         SECOPr                  S/9411194
t  daousions, icluding th
preeeaa to Cogresa of a
now trnpoa law accepableto
IDA, ad prepre reted
Suwtthn Darr               Inplune  the teccal            SCOFPrI/DCr             12/96/94
eaabie to catVy its be          need tining idwnted
reguato  finton.           durn the First hm of th
Jniaalond Developnme  Plan.



ANNEX 1
-49-                                               hSd11
HONDURS
TRANSPT SECrOB hAlUTATION PROQCT
GOWs ACIION PLAN FOR TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORMS
THE HIGHWAYS PLAN
_DeACT
OBJICIV                    DIRumDI                            ACTION                 RUSONDUlY   IrART4DI                       DNVISGD
StrWtea nDC's and          Evaluate adoquay Of          Caq out the fin phase of di        ECOT/DCC/                4/93-6M        Increae de uiy
DOCCA's copabilit  to      pnet oniz             of WDC    1DB finced tehnial asua        DOCCA                                    in malntsm by
cay out road               and DCCA in view of die    prorm.                                                                       colgac  Redue
maitenane by contma.    shift to mainawn  by                                .algsiancoc
contr.
Rorgaiz DCR  C and           Cany out die snood phm of the   S8COPr/DGCI                593-10193          1ee
DOCCA ad impleme  a          IDB financed technical asitaC    DCCA                                               y   of
managem       tn for    proPgam                                                                         DOC ed
physica and financa                                                                                     DCCCA.
ped -mn.
lmpro ur                   Develop a sysm for           Cay cut relevant DB finnced       SECOPr                    2M934/93            t adeque
mbilizadon for             maIntenc      fin n,         technicaladssis      ptogr.                                      m.in_eanof the
maineanfamcn and   inludn tolls an                                                                                                 road network
ens appropdate coat        appropriat usArW har.
recovey.                                                 Diecuas rcuoedatw    with       SECOPI                       7/93
IDA.
I mplent ard                    SECOPT                    8/934/94
recomeandadiont.
.mprov rd einee .   Prepare a Road Desg                 Cany out dke reat IDB            SECOPI                    4M93-10/93
Mnual.                       han d technical   _m
mpvBidg                    Implem      Btide            Cty out tevant 1DA tchnidl    SECOP/DWC                    11/93-7/94        move bridp
MAnageMmi                  MmpSym                          _                                                                        _g_am  anagmeI
Sta_ghe DOC ad             Develop ad  ilmpl_m           Cay out elevat MDB finad        SBCOPT/DGC/                4193-3194      Ib;ov" rood
DWCCA road                 r _sye   for.                tedhcl aeieun  progra.            DWCCA                                    dign;  duce
manamt apbiirid.    - Tansh D                                                                                                      coD.
- Road bInv ria       n       Dieu  Wi IDA                    S8COFT                       6/93
. Pavement inpecdon           recomoD acnoon
- strucur  ivety              rmm qw aL%*4eod
- UnitCo"                     contrle.
- Pt*ectu id
Co _tucton                   Imple        Feed recon          8COPT                    7M93-3/94       Reduce tad
DedL                       meado icuding                                                             de_S       due
A-  dmmln  o                 procmremiso aNd                                                           to oveloadn.
Peoal and                    i    _nataon of fixed nd
Inetallato.                  m     ieweighting



ANNEX Z
- 50-                                        Page 9 of 11
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECrOR REHABILITATION PROJECr
GOI's ACrION PLAN FOR TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORMS
PORTS ACTION PLAN
OJDC1TYIE             DWItRumIitS                    ACTION                                   SrART-          EiVLSAGED
E IND
III. Peb:- 
Ipove effismy in    Incrbe   the role of the   Retain conmatants and cany    IC/SECOPT           4193-6/93    Inrease
prOVi   of port        prvate sctor in port     out evaluaion of diffent                                      competivenesa of
USYICOS.               operations.             schemes to increase private                                    Honduran ports in
participation on port                                         the region.
operaions and its impa  on
ENP (phase one).
- Prepare policy document    IC                  6193-7t93
defining proposed
participadon of
private opeators in
(a) Puerto Cortes, @b)
other ports and (c) role of
ENP.
- Prepar prgram for pot      IC/SECOPT           10193
reorganizraon
satctory to IDA and
rein consultants to
implement agreed schemes
(phse two).
- Complete ansfer of         ENP                 lV9S
selected port ars andlor
activities to p2ivate
opertors
Provide greate
- Set up separae             ENP                 6193-12193   responsiveness to
admioisation for Puerto                       5              nmrket conditions.
Cortes container terminal.
linte price
- Establish cost-based tariff  ENP               3/93-7/93    distorons in the
in Puer  Cortes.                                             su or



ANNEX I
- 1                                             Page 10 of 11
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABIUTATION PROJECT
GOH's ACnION PLAN FOR TRANSFORT SECTOR REFORMS
THE CIVIL AVIATION PLAN
I                       I                     DB1ACT
|  08J  vIsV             INSr1UMDITS                       ACTION                 RESPONSMUITY           SFART-DD   j_         SAGFD
IV.aRP ua
Improve the efficiency of  nl2impl an organizational   Define the otniztonal         SECOPrADCA                 1934/93       Incae
airpo  operation nd      sucur of th sctor to        stucure of the ubsctor.                                                  accoubility in
administaton.            opert the airpot on a                                                                                airport
commercial bass.                                                                                    adminisuration.
With suppot from the           SECOPT/DOCA                2/93-5/93
innadonal Civil Aviation
Organiztion (ICAO), prepare
operdonal manuals for the
airport, define cost center,
billing procedur  and other
tegulations for the irpor.
Retain consult  to carry       SECOPr/DOCA                   5193
out Implementation Stage.
Dsign an implement,  lly       SECOPr/DGCA                7/93-12/95
an operation and maintenance
plan for the airt satisfactory
to the Asotion (IDA).
Implement operdonal procedures   SBCOFr/DOCA              5/93-11/94
to opente the airports on a
commercia basis.
imp   ienvent            Prpare t-yer aport          - Cury out ICAO relevant        SECOPI/DOCA                11/92-3/94    Reduce cost;
planig,                  dlopment Mster Plan.         technical assistance                                                    imprve quality
program.                                                               of svices.
- Diacu  Plminay Mbater        SBCOFII/DCA                   4/94
Plan with IDA.
- Approv final Master          SECOFF/DOCA                   5/94
Improve Cril Aviation    Prepare tn-yea Civil        - Cary out ICAO relevant        SECOPl/DOCA                11/92-7/94    Develop civil
Devlopmen                Aviation NatiOnl             thnical assidnce                                                        aviation srvices
Devlopment Pln inluding    prorm.                                                                   in line with
WAen cOnei                                                                                          market needs
intenadonal aangements,                                                                             and with
sefray nd communication.                                                                            international
safety standards.
StrenSn DGCA's           Dewvop nd implement ad    - Carry out ICAO relevant         SECOPT/DWCA                11/92-7/94    Improve services
capability for the       apprpdatening                technical assisane                                                      to interAdonal
opeation and maintenance   pr am                      progm.                                                                  accepted
of infrasrctr and                                                                                                             sndard



S2 -                              ~~~~~ANNEX I
-52-                                          Page llofll
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECOR REHABIITATION PROJECr
GOB's ACIION PLAN FOR TRANSPORT SECrOR REFORMS
TBE RAILWAYS PLAN
IMACT
ORJE~TIVRS        RfS9RUMDITs                     ACHON                 REOBHY                  rART.DID         DIVSAGED
Iv. Rtjj
[itpove efdey in         Conceeson FMN uubl        - Coe  nosodulm wih           PF1M                         1/94        Reduce fial
mode  oie.               asn_  to TRR CO.           TRR. Co. to taarwthe                                                 deficit
I{iPo-Prsro l      or
mo       bn _t to eqa
Yhaanu opwaion of Se    - Reduce adiItive s ff by        PN                        10194        Eliminate
Peo Subia ne.              20 people.                                                           ditoirons in modal
choi=e for land
UanaporL
-  _nre trM  to remaining     PF                          12/94
tafflo to equal tuck tarifr.
- Diawnuepaeeee svice.   PFNH                             3195
: .    :),.
- Dbelop end implnto           FNH                     5194-15,
finacia onypation packap
for stff reduction.
- Di vacontbnu    aecee        FNN                     6/95-12/95
tha ao not coeeonAbl
and/or economically viable.



- 53 -
-S3~-x
page I of 8
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPNT PLAN
A. INTRODUCTION
1.     Based on the institutional analysis carried out during project preparation, the Government
has agreed to an Institutional Development Plan to strengthen SECOPT's transport planning and
environmental protection function. As a first step, the Government created the Under Secretariat of
Planning and Finance (SSPF). Appointment of the Vice-Minister of SSPF and of at least one
economist and one engineer each would be a condition of credit effectiveness. This would be the
core group in charge of implementing the Institutional Development Plan. The plan includes:
Clarification of the objectives of SSPF and DGT.
A restatement of:
The responsibilities of the SSPF.
. SSPF structure in relation with its corresponding
responsibilities.
A redefinition of the role of DGT.
Identification and implementation of the organizadon and operating capacity (number
of technicians and professional profile) that would be required to perform the
referenced responsibilities appropriately. Design and implementation of a staffing
plan.
Definition of procedures and basic mechanisms for implementation of the planning,
programming and budgeting process.
A training and technical assistance program geared toward the development of the
necessary technical capability to carry out planning, programming, budgeting,
monitoring and environmental protection, as well as inter-institutional coordination
with respect to environmental concerns in SECOFP.
B. OBJECTVE OF TH   NSTITVTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
2.     The objective of the Institutional Development Plan is to strengthen SSPF capabilities to
carry out its planning and coordinating responsibilities, including the incorporation of environmental
concerns (Atachment I of this amnex provides further details of SSPF and the environmental unit
fiucdons). The plan would, in particular:



- 54 -
ANNEX 
Page 2 of 8
(1)    Ensure that SECOPT's activities are within the framework of a national transport
sector development policy.
(2)    Ensure that sector analysis and decision-making capacity is strengthened through
development of a transport information network and capacity for analysis of impact
of macro-economic and sector policies.
(3)   Integrate the different departments within the Secretariat into a unified approach and
a single planning, programming, budgeting and monitoring system, allowing greater
linkage of organizational plans with sector policies, directives, and budgets.
(4)   Ensure that projects and works executed by the Secretariat are based on sound
feasibility assessment of technical, economic and environmental factors.
C. RESOURCES NEEDED TO EMPLEM4NT lE INSTITUIONAL DEVELOPMNT PLAN
3.     Achievement of the above objectives would require adequate strengthening of SSPF through
appropriate staffing and investments in technical assistance, training and equipment. These inputs
would be targeted on:
(1)   revising organizational and inter-organizational structures, functions and procedures,
including increasing levels of decentralization, as appropriate;
(2)   developing staff skills in priority areas; and
(3)   designing and implementing new technical support systems for transport information,
and financial and environmental management.
D.     SSPF ORGANIZATION AND SECTORIAL PLANNING COORDINATION
4.     To carry out its planning, programming, budgeting and monitoring responsibilities, SECOPT
has proposed a new structure which, besides the decree for the creation of SSPF incorporates a
"Planning Committee". This Committee will aim to articulate and coordinate actions among
SECOPT's technical-administrative units, and between the entities involved in planning and sectorial
development under the Secretariat's responsibility (Graph 1 shows the organizational relations in
planning and monitoring within SECOPT). This coordinating effort is particularly important since
SSPF will incorporate to its new structure a new environmental department, the HDM model, and
transport information systems working across different organizational structures. Sitting members at
the committee would be SECOPT's Vice-ministers and directors, acting as executive secretary the
Vice-Minister of SSPF. This committee's main functions would be to:
(1)   Establish and/or strengthen mechanisms for cooperation and collaboration among
SECOPT and other sector organizations;



- 55 -
ANNE 2
Page 3 of 8
(2)    Evaluate and discuss basic sector studies, including analysis of impact of economic
and sector policies;
(3)    Review the consolidated programming of SECOPT and take concerted actions in
accordance to priorities and availability of funds;
(4)    Exchange information, through periodic reports issued by its technical secretariat, on
the progress of physical execution and make recommendations for readjustments or
reorientation.
5.     To carry out the expected SSPF functions, adequate staffing would be required. Not later
than October 31, 1993, during the first phase of the technical assistance program (see para. 7(b)),
SSPF will prepare a staffing plan which will be implemented during the second phase of the Program
(para. 7(c)). For the environmental unit, staffing would include: (i) a civil engineer with experience
in environmental protection and natural resources management, and with at least five years experience
in civil works and construction, and (ii) two civil engineers with training in one of the following
subjects: biology/ecology, edafology, hydrology and economy. Satisfactory staffing of the
environmental unit is a condition of credit effectiveness. Further determination of structure, functions
and staff, would be defined during the implementation of the first phase of the project technical
assistance which is described in the following section.
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROGRAM
Objectives:
(a)    To contribute to overcome the deficits of individual staff skills in transport planning
and environmental protection detected in the institutional analysis carried out during
project preparation; and
(b)    To generate and transfer to the referred staff, the necessary skills to implement
planning, monitoring and evaluation management, including the environmental
factor.
Approach:
6.     The approach to technical assistance and training for institutional development would include
the following key elements:
(a)    Participatory methods would be used for the diagnosis. design and implementation of
improved systems an procedures, including the conduct of both inter and intra-
organizational action-planning workshops, as necessary. These workshops would
also provide a forum to help identify the staffing needs of SSPF. These workshops
will bring together key working level and senior staff and expert consultants to
address major areas of sector planning improvements. Working groups would be
used to follow up the results of the workshops in order to further develop, refine and
implement the outlined plans;



-56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
(b)    Technical assistance would be conducted primarily in a collaborative mode,
developing iternal capacit by assistig in the work of the planning staff as they
join SSPF, rather then repacing those staff by directly carrying out their functions.
In specific technical assistance areas, involving one time only functions, consulting
assistance would not be directly tied to capacity building of sector staff (e.g. systems
programming for the sector information network or for a computerized chart of
accounts);
(c)    Action-training would be used to achieve specific skill development in priority areas.
In action-training, trainees learn skills relevant to their immediate work needs by
addressing real work problems in training sessions; and
(d)    The design of the institutional development effort would be linked to annual project
planning workshops, in which issues are discussed, priorities established, and
integration achieved among institutional development and other sector activities.
(e)    Technical assistance will be implemented on a two phased sequence. During the
first phase a small expatriate team (para 7(b)) will assist SECOPT in defining the
organization structure and functions of the Planning System, including the role that
DGT should have in the process, as well as defining the type of technical assistance
and training to be implemented during the second phase.
7.     Because of the intensity of the institutional development activities supported by this project,
fSequent supervision by IDA staff, including staff with skill and knowledge in institutional
development, would be essential.
Ioslitutlonal Development:
(a)    Government Actions and Decisions. As part of project launching efforts, SSPF and
key SECOPT directorates (DGC, DGCCA, DGT, etc.) would be assembled to work
in both phases of the institutional development program. They would not only be
instrumental in establishing the new planning system but their staff would also be
subject to intensive training programs.
(b)    Phase 1: Institutional and Work Team Planning. (8 man-months). In cooperation
with SSPF counterpart group, consisting of the Vice-Minister and a core of
professionals, a technical assistance team composed by a consultant on Institutional
Development, a Consultant on Formulation of Monitoring and Evaluation Systems, a
Consultant on Environmental Protection and Conservation of Natural Resources, and
an Information Systems Consultant would undertake structured, organizational
planning workshops for a period of about two months. These workshops would
involve SECOPT's planning and environmental management staff to clarify and
develop a common understanding of: a) SSPF and DGT overall missions, policies
and objectives, as well as the best organizational structure to discharge its
responsibilities regarding environ l issues, information systems, monitoring,
project formulation and administration; b) the roles, responsibilities and inter-
relationships of units within SECOPT and autonomous agencies under the



-57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5of 8
Secretariat's authority; c) an outline of a strategic plan, for phase 2 discussed below,
for organizational activities and for the use of project inputs (i.e., technical
assistance, training awd equipment). The strategic plan would include, inter alia: (i)
firm-up training needs which during project preparation were identified in the areas
of: Formulation of Sectorial Development Policies; Formulation of Transportation
Policies and Strategies; Project Formulation and Evaluation; Environmental Factors
in Project Formulation; Budgetary Planning; Formulation of Planning aud
Monitoring Systems; Formulation and Administration of Regional and International
Projects; Management Information Systems in Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation;
Report Preparation at the Management Level; (ii) define specific training targ-ts (a
preliminary identification is presented in Table 1), and (iii) elaborate technical
assistance and training terms of reference, as well as estimating Phase 2
implementation resources.
(c)    Phase 2. Institutional Reform and Training. (112 man-months). Given the
foundation provided by Phase 1, the emphasis in Phase 2 would be on
implementation. This is when the program to strengthen SECOPT's planning and
coordinating capabilities through SSPF and DGT would be implemented and
* environmental management and information systens development would be done.
Progress would be reviewed during annual Project Review and Planning Workshops,
and plans revised in a timely fashion to address any changing conditions and
technical requirements.
8.     Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. A key element of planning processes would be the
participation of the different technical-administrative units of the Secretariat and of other autonomous
entities involved in planning and sectorial development which fall under SECOPT's responsibility.
Special attention will be dedicated to the organization and operation of the new Planning
9.     In accordance with its role as the Committee's Executive Secretariat (and institutional
coordinator), the SSPF planning, programming and monitoring functions must be strengthened
appropriate technical levels.
10.    Planning and evaluation procedures, should also be established and implemented in the form
of manuals, procedural guidelines, and/or regulations not only to assist internal operations but also
allow consistent inter-institutional coordination and processes.
11.    Emphasis must be placed on staffing and training SSPF personnel on all aspects around
budget analysis and its management vis a vis planning and investment requirements.
12.    Environmental Protection. The creation of a specialized unit able to deal with
environmental issues is an indication of increasing Government concern in the field. Given the level
of complexity of most of the environmental problems facing each one of SECOPT's Directorates, a
study carried-out during project preparation, recommended the strengthening of a small existing
environmental unit, its transformation into a SSPF Department and the definition of its terms of
reference.



- 58 -
ANNEX2
Page 6 of 8
13.    A basic core staff, which must be hired and in place by the initiation of the project, would
work with an expatriate technical assistance team.
14.    A clear definition of objectives, functions, and internal organization, as well as internal
manuals and operational regulations, would be part of this institutional building effort. This wIll be
accompanied by clear definition of service relationships with the DOPS and other institutions as well
as its operational strategy.
15.    Personnel training, in its different forms, and the creation and operation of an appropriate
information system, must constitute a central focus of the department's consolidation, during project
execution and beyond.
16.    Sector Budgeting and Programming. The budgeting and financial management function
parallels and must be integrated with SSPF planning function. SSPF would be responsible for
disseminating budgetary guidance, within the Minister's "Frame of Orientation", specially as
Executive Secretariat of the Planning Committee and responsible for analyzing proposed budgets and
actual expenditures of sector organizations as input to the Minister's review and decision making
process.
17.    These functions include, but are not limited to, evaluating and reporting on actual program
expenditures within the sector, and providing guidance to SECOPT's Directorates and sector
organizations on the development of organizational budget and accounting systems so that they are
consistent across the sector and meet sector planning requirements.
18.    Information Systems, Collection and Analysis. This component within SSPF and DGT
would support the implementation of functions like:
(a)    Assisting other units within SSPF to meet data collection, storage, and processing
needs (including the use of planning, GIS, and statistical packages and required
programming) through: i) the development of a sector management and information
network that integrates the data collection and processing activities of sector
organization; and ii) the development and maintenance of SSPF and DGT data bases
and processing hardware and software; and
(b)    Establishing technical standards for the development of information systems within
the sector that would permit the necessary links among SECOPT's offices and
Directorates and between sector organizations. The use of an information task force
under the Sector Planning Committee would assure coordination and consistency in
the use of information linkages.
19.    Summary of Institutional Development Inputs. Technical assistance, training and
procurement of equipment in support of the development of the described two phased approach,
would be financed by the project. Financing would be provided to assist SSPF and DGT and other
sector organizations to design and install systems, strengthen operations, train staff, and conduct
analytical work. With reference to technical assistance, it should be noted that an impartant principle
would be to clearly differentiate among specific consulting roles in the terms of reference. This



- 59 -
AN,NE 2
Page 7 of 8
would occur during Phase 1 in which a detailed analysis on organization, structure, roles and
functions would allow a precise identification of needed expertise. It must also be recognized dth
institutional development and production of specific products sometimes require alternative approaches
by technical assistance personnel.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of S
PROPOSIED TRAINING ACTIVlE, IMTATZD NUMDU OF PARTICANTS, AND
PLACE OF TlAINUM
NO. OF    DURA-   TENTATIVE
ACTIV1T                      PARTICI-    TION        TRAING
ANTS       DAYS        PLACE
- Course on Project Formulation and Evalution
inchding the Environmental.                    33          15      Honduras
- Course on Budgetaiy Analysis and Planning.      16          5       Honiuras
- Seminary on Formulation of Sectorial
Development Policies and Strategies.           40          4       Honduras
- Course on lIcorpomtion of the environmntal
variable in tmnsportation feasibility projects.  2         30       Extemal
- Course on Project Negotiation, Formwlation
and Administration at the Regional and
Inerational Levels.                             1          3S       Exteral
- Course on Project Negotiation, Fornmuation
and Administrmtion.                             1         1 yr      External
- Course on Project Planning Monitoring and
Evaluation.                                     17         5       Honduras
- Course on Computerized Program of Project
Monitoring and Evahlation.                      16         30      Honduras
- Workahop on Report Prepation at the
Management Lovel.                               16         2       Honduras
- Course on Incor",oration of Environmental
Factor in Project Feasibili Studies.            16   .    15       Honduras
- Course for Suprvisors and Contators on
management of the environmet factor.            -          _       Honduras
TOTAL:



- 61 -
ANNEX ;
Page 1 of 7
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Responsibilities of SECOPr's Under-Secretariat of Planning and Finance
.    'The Institutional Development Plan would help to develop the necessary procedures and
provide technical assistance and training to SSPF to effectively assume the following responsibilities:
General Responsibilities
Policy:
(a)    Develop policies for the approval of the Secretary to implement a sectorial planning
and environmental protection system within the scope of the Secretariat's
responsibility;
Advia=r:
(b) Advis the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries and thie various Secretariat Departments
on Planning and Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation, Environmental viability,
inter-institutional Coordination, tapping of resources and other areas within the scope
of its responsibility;
(c)    Assist the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries before International and Integration
Commissions and Organizations in order to represent them or obtain technical or
financial assistance;
(d)    Coordina with the corresponding agencies in charge of national planning, the
development of SECOPT's sectorial policy;
(e)    Coordinate with the Coordination and Budget Secretariat (SECPLAN), the
development of medium- and long-term execution and investment plans ithin the
scope of the Secretariat's responsibilities;
(f)    Coordinate with autonomous and other national, regional and international entities
working in related SECOPT's activities, with respect to Planning, Monitoring,
Evaluation and Environmental Protection;
(g) Coordinate with national, regional and international entities with a view to entering
into Agreements - Loan, Technical Assistance, Participation Agreements and others;
monitor their progress and compliance with agreements;
(h)    Codi   actions with the Assistant Secretaries to channel and tap technical,
financial and cooperation resources to support the execution of programs;



- 62 -
X2
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 7
Regulation and Onanization
(i)    Develop SECOPT directives and technical and budeetary procedures for planning
programs and projects;
0)    Develop directives, regulations and procedures to include environmental analysis as
part of the technical and eponomic analysis in the design of programs and projects;
(k)    Establish internal mechanisms and procedures in the Secretariat to ensure coordination
and integration among its different units with respect to Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation;
(1)    Participate in *he modernization and computerization of the Secretariat's administrative
processes;
Planning:
(m)   Perform the technical and budgetary planning for SECOPT's programs and projects
with participation from the different departments within the Secretariat;
(n)    Develop training, technical assistance and cooperation programs within the scope of
responsibility of the Planning Directorate in SSPF and execute the same in
coordination with the different departments within the Secretariat;
Monitorin :
(o)    Establish and implement a monito; ing system of the physical and financial progress of
SECOPT's programs and projects;
(p)    Monitor, on a permanent basis, the Secretariat's different departments to ensure
implementation of the various established directives, regulations and procedures in the
planning aad environmental protection areas;
Evaluation:
(q)    Establish and implement a project/program impact evaluation system including as one
of its essential variables the environmental impact;
(r)    Perform technical, economic and environmental impact evaluations of the projects and
works executed by the various SECOPT departments;



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Atihment 1
Page 3 of 7
Analysis and Studies:
(s)    Analyze the pre-feasibility and technical, economic and environmental feasibility
studies prepared by consultant firms contracted by the Secretariat and issue
recommendations and monitor their execution;
(t)    Analyze, in coordination with the Secretariat's departments, the needs for studies,
consultant, technical assistance and cooperation services; develop the corresponding
program and implement it;
Information:
(u)    Prepare periodic and special reports on the progress of programs and projects and
submit them to the corresponding authorities;
(v)    Assume responsibility for the correct functioning of SECOPT's Computer Center,
proceeding with automation of the main systems of interest to the institution;
(w)   Manage a computerized data bank to systematize and provide information on the
Secretariat's general and specific statistics for decision-making, information on
subjects of specific technical interest, specialized bibliography, and others;
(x)    All other responsibilities delegated by the Secretary within the scope of its
responsibility.
Ploaming, Studies and Coordination
(a)    Advise the Planning Director on all areas related with coordination for the
development of SECOPT's sectorial policy;
(b)    Advise the Planning Director on preparation of medium and long term execution and
investment plans;
(c)    Advise the Planning Director on mobilizing technical, financial and cooperation
resources;
(d)    Advise the Director on his dealings with Commissions and international and
integration organizations;
(e)    Advise the Director on his dealings with respect to Loan, Technical Cooperation and
Participation Agreements, and others;
(f)    Develop, in coordination with the Monitoring and Environmental Protection
Departments, the directives and technical and budgetary procedures for planning the
Secretariat's plans, programs and projects;



- 64 -
ANNX 2
Atthment I
Page 4 of 7
(g)   Prepare directives, regulations and procedures for the incorporation of technical and
economic viability analysis in program and project design;
(h)   Develop an action programming and formulation of feasibility projects system that
unifies this activity within the Secretariat;
(i)    Support the Secretariat's departments in the implementation of directives, regulations
and procedures for technical and budgetary design, planning and programming;
0)    Coordinate with the different SECOPT departments, the Secretariat's annual technical
and budgetary ps 3gramming and for the same purpose with the Autonomous Agencies
on whose Board the Secretariat presides;
(k)    Determine the needs for studies, consultants, technical and cooperation assistance in
coordination with the Secretariat's departments;
(l)    Develop technical and cooperation assistance programs and execute them in
coordination with the other Secretariat's departments and other related agencies;
(im)   Develop and provide information and analysis for decision-making on the
modernization and automation of the Secretariat's administrative processes;
(n)    Participate in determining training needs for SECOPT staff 3nd in the development
and execution of the corresponding program, within the scope of its responsibility.
Monitoing and Evaluaton
(a)    Advise the Planning Director and other Secretariat departments on the implementation
of the project/program monitoring and evaluation system;
(b)    Advise the Planning Director General on the measures that need to be taken relative to
the impact of plans and projects;
(c)    Advise the Planning Director General on the decisions that need to be taken with
respect to the recommendations made on technical and economic impact studies;
(d)    Develop a project control and evaluation system to unify this activity within the
Secretariat and provide support to the corresponding departments for its
implementation;
(e)    Develop, in coordination with the Environment& Protection Department, the
methodology and procedures for evaluating the technical, economic and environmental
impact of projects and works within the scope of action of the Secret&eiat;



- 65-
A NN13X 2
Altakement I
Page 5 of 7
(f)    Perform the technical, economic and environmental impact evaluations of the projects
and works executed by the Secretariat, in coordination with the Environmental
Protection Department;
(g)   Participate in the selection of consulting firms to carry out technical, economic and
environmental feasibility studies and other types of studies and consultant services,
and in the development of terms of reference;
(h)    Analyze the technical and economic feasibility studies prepared by consulting firms
contracted by the Secretariat and issue reports for the Director General's decision;
(i)    Monitor compliance of the Resolutions and Agreements and other commitments in
which the Secretariat is a party to and that are within the scope of the Planning
Directorate;
(j)    Advise and support the Computer Science Unit of the Planning Directorate, on the
design of automated information systems and on the development and maintenance of
a data bank;
(k)    Prepare, in coordination with the Computer Science Unit, consolidated and periodic
and special reports on the physical and financial progress, and submit them to the
Planning Director;
Q!    Support the Secretariat's departments in the preparation of physical progress and
budgetary reports;
(m)   Participate in the determination of training requirements for Secretariat staff and in the
development and execution of the corresponding program, within the scope of its
responsibility;
(n)   All other duties delegated by the Planning Director.
FAWronmental Asse_ment
(a)    Advise the Planning Director and other Secretariat Departments with respect to tsLe
environmental factors in programs and projects;
(b)    Advise the Planning Director on the measures that should be taken to mitigate the
environmental impact of plans, programs and projects;
(c)    Advise the Planning Director on decisions that should be taken with respect to the
recommendations of the environmental impact studies;
(d)    Design and establish a project classification system in accordance with the degree of
environmental impact;



- 66 -
ANNEX2
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 7
(e)    Study project proposals received by the Sectorial Planning Directorate at the pre-
feasibility level and analyze the possible environmental, ecological and conservation
effects for the region where the project will take place;
(f)    Classify the proposed projects on the basis of pre-feasibility studies, field inspections
and the established classification system;
(g)    Assist the operational Directorates in the preparation of terms of reference and
contractual documentation for contracting environmental impact studies that should be
included in the feasibility studies;
(Ih)    Analyze the feasibility studies to verify that they have taken into account the
conclusions and recommendations of the environmental impact studies and to ensure
that the studies include the recommended alleviation measures and that the cost and
actions for its implementation are reflected in the final design;
'-l!    Coordinate with the Secretariat's Directorates the alternative designs and layout that
could be necessary to implement the recommended alleviating measures of the
environmental impact studies;
fj)    Cooperate with the Operational Directorates in identifying complementary measures
that could be necessary to protect natural resources during construction of the works;
(k)   In coordination with the Operational Directorates, perform field supervision on the
environmenuu aspects of works under construction or rehabilitation and prepare the
respective reports indicating any non-compliance by the constructor and recommend
corrective measures;
XI)    Cooperate with the respective operational Directorate whenever necessary or
considered convenient, on the presentation of a project design or the pertinent
environmental impact study to municipal authorities and non-governmental
representatives from the communities that would be affected by the works to be
undertaken, in order to listen to their suggestions, recommendations or objections;
(m)   Inform the Director of the Sectorial Planning Directorate and the Director of the
respective Operational Directorate about detected environmental problems in works in
progress but not foreseen in the impact stdy and which imply changes in the original
design;
(n)    Recommend to the Operational Directorates the necessary protection actions in cases
where, during construction of works, there are findings of archeological remains or
ruins of a historical nature that have not been reported in the Environmental Study.
Likewise, it should coordinate actions between the contractor and the cultural heritage
institutions to safeguard the ruins and archeological pieces that have been found;



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 7 of 7
(o)    Participate, within its area of expertise, in determining the training needs of the
Secretariat staff, works supervisors and contractors in the development and execution
of the corresponding training program;
(p)    Coordinate and support the Computer Science Unit in establishing and maintaining a
computerized data bank on environmental information related with the transport sector
and particularly with SECOPT activities; and also to establish information exchanges
with national and international environmental organizations networks;
(q)    Share the accumulated information with those SECOPT departments that need it to
carry out their work;
(r)    All other responsibilities delegated by the Planning Director within the scope of its
responsibility.
Mnanagement Information Systems
(a)    Develop and maintain data bases and automate the information systems required by
the Secretariat for internal and external use;
(b)    Advise the Planning Director and other Secretariat departments with respect to
participation in the development and design of the data bank and of the computerized
information systems and its management and utilization;
(c)    Facilitate the information required by the various Secretariat departments for decision-
making, for development of sectorial development policies and strategies, for specific
technical needs and other;
(d)    Maintain contact with national and international information networks to facilitate the
availability of information;
(e)    On a permanent and systematic basis, disseminate information on the services of this
Unit and on the available information, throughout the Secretariat;
(f)    Support the departments of the Planning Directorate in the development of programs,
of monitoring reports and other requirements for which they need the information
available in the Computer Science Unit;
(g)    Participate, v. ithin its area of expertise, in determining the training needs of
Secretariat staff and in the development and execution of the corresponding training
program;
(h)    All other responsibilities delegated by the Planning Director within its area of
expertise.



- 68 -
AMX3
Page I of 7
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
The National Road Network
1.    The national road network of Honduras consists of 14,100 km of at. weather roads of which
2400 km are paved and 11,700 km unpaved (Table 1). Functionaily, the network is classified into
Primary roads (3033 km), Secondary roads (2424 kin) and Feeder roads (8619 kIn).
2.    Except for the northeast part of the country (the Province of "Gracias a Dios") where few
roads exist (246 km), the remainder of the country is reasonably well served by the national road
network. In terms of importance, the Northern Highway which connects Tegucigalpa with San Pedro
Sula (the second largest city) and Puerto Cortes (Honduras' main port) is the country's road
backbone. Also important are the Southern Highway and the Pan American Highway. The former
serves the southern region of the country including the port of San Lorenzo and the latter links
Honduras with El Salvador and Nicaragua. The north coast (Tela, La Ceiba, Trujillo) can easily be
reached via San Pedro Sula/El Progreso and the east and southeast regions, via Tegucigalpa. The
Western Highway, which begins at Chamelecon in the north, serves the northwest part of the country
while the road from Siguatepeque via La Esperanza and Gracias, can be used to access this area from
Tegucigalpa.
3.    The Pan American Highway and the Western Highway are the main corridors running through
Central America. However, only the former highway has consistent design standards on both sides of
the border. The roads from Guatemala and El Salvador connecting to the Western Highway are
unpaved and in poor condition. A regional studyl! examined the various land corridors to strengthen
the integration of Central America. Both these roads were included in the study with the former
being on the "natural" corridor while the latter, which runs through Nueva Ocotepeque - La Entrada -
Chamelecon - Tegucigalpa - Danli - Las Manos, is considered to be a good alternative.
4.    Inadequate maintenance levels, weak institutional capabilities, and relaxation of axle load
regulations, led to the deterioration of the road network. At the end of 1990, about 27% of the paved
roads were in good condition, compared to 61% in 1985. The current administration, however,
expects that the paved network will be fully rehabilitated by the end of 1996.
I/ Study fnanced by UNDP at the regp  of the Thnort Ministers of the Cenrl Ameiican counies.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
Highway Traffic and Veide Fleet
5.    Traffic volume information is scattered as there is no traffic data collection program in place.
With the information available, it was possible to establish the major flow patterns in the country.
The major flows are concentrated on the primary road network particularly along the Northern
Highway and the road between San Pedro Sula and El Progreso. Some 4500 vehicles per day (vpd)
use the Northrn Highway (Table 2) with freight vehicles (trucks and pick-ups), making up about
30% of the traffic. The two-lane road section between San Pedro Sula and the airport (11 km),
carries 12,000 vpd. From the airport to El Progreso (16 km), traffic levels drop to 6500 vpd.
Traffic volumes on other main roads radiating from Tegucigalpa, are estimated at about 2200 vpd.
6.    Honduras' vehicle fleet increased from approximately 29,000 vehicles in 1970 to an estimated
155,000 vehicles in 1990 (Table 3) with the number of trucks. utility vehicles and buses increasing
more rapidly than automobiles. Vehicle motorization, in terms of automobiles per 1000 inhabitants,
increased over the same period from 5 to approximately 11.
Road Safely
7.    Road safety is under the responsibility of the Police Department. One of the main causes of
the accidents that occur on the highway network is the lack of adequate vertical signalization,
pavement markings and safety barriers. SECOPT is developing, with IDB assistance, a country-wide
program to improve the situation and decrease the number of road accidents. The road rehabilitation
program to be partly financed by x. `3 is also addressing this issue at the project level by including
funds for vertical signs and road markings.
Institdonal Framework
8.    The Secretariat of Public Works and Transport (SECOPT) directly (through its various
directorates) or indirectly (through its public companies), has overall responsibility for planning,
coordination, and regulation of activities in Honduras' transport sector. For highways, there are two
general directorates, namely Roads (DUC)  and Maintenan  (DGCCA) which report to the Deputy
Minister of Public Works. These directorates operate under separate budgets. DGC is responsible
for the planning and emxecution of road construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation projects and
DGCCA for road (and airport) maintenance.
9.    The overall organizational structure of DGC has remained virtually unchanged over the last
few years. Notwithstanding a 22% vat in personnel during 1990 (1800 persons: 200 technical and
1600 field), DGC seems to respond quite adequately to the demands of SECOPT. Projects with
foreign financing are the responsibility of three separate project implementation units (Unidades
Ejecutoras), ruamely: CABEI-FIV which handles projects financed by the Central American Bank for
Economic Integration (CABEI) and by the Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV); IDB-BIRF which
looks after the Interamerican Bank and World Bank projects; and AID-PRODESBA which is
responsible for projects with AID and PRODESBA/IDA financing. Local consultants and/or
consulting firms are retained to aid in road design and construction supervision activities.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
10.   The DGCCA, on the other hand, is undergoing major changes. In terms of personnel, the
target is to reach a staff of only 1700 by the end of 1994 (down from 5000 in 1989). To compensate
for this, DGCCA intends to contract about two thirds of the road maintenance work with the private
sector, with the remaining one third to be done by force account. This in-house maintenance capacity
will also provide backup for emergencies and reduce the risk of replacing a public monopoly by a
cartel of private interests. In terms of its organization, DGCCA has made significant changes both at
the central office as well as at the district level. Th%se changes are aimed at reducing the size of the
organization and streamlining maintenance operations. DGCCA is setting up project implementation
units for its maintenance operations, particularly those under contract.
11.   Generally speaking, the technical quality of DGC's and DGCCA's professional staff, is
satisfactory. However, the quality of engineering studies carried out by consultants are often
deficient. This is in part due to the lack of comprehensive engineering standards and technical
specifications for road construction applicable to the local conditions and requirements. SECOPT,
with IDB assistance, will address this issue through the preparation of road technical specifications
and of road geometric design standards!. Another subject that needs special attention is the question
of slope stability problems found in mountainous road sections. Some of the primary roads
particularly the Western Highway are affected by slope stability problems which increase the cost of
road rehabilitation and reconstruction. Again, IDB has included a technical assistance component to
address this issue3'.
Road Maintenance
12.   Road maintenance is the responsibility of DGCCA and its 13 districts, with four districts,
Tegucigalpa, Galeras, San Pedro Sula, and Santa Rosa de Copan, being responsible for nearly 50% of
the network. With the reduction in staff and the increasing privatization of maintenance operations
districts are assuming more of a supervisory role. The maintenance by contract effort is showing
positive results; at the end of the first year of operation, SECOPT estimated that maintenance by
contract to be more cost-effective than force account, with savings in the order of 40%. DGCCA is
considering, as part of the maintenance privatization actions, the awarding of pluriannual contracts for
routine and periodic maintenance for all road types within a sub-region of the country. This scheme
could include the use of small enterprises (micro-empresas), under a cooperative system to carry out
routine maintenance work. The small enterprises scheme has been successfully implemented in
Colombia. Typically, microenterprises would be made up of 10 to 14 men, preferably living in the
surrounding area, who carry out the manual routine maintenance on approximately 50 km of road
under contract with SECOPT. Contracts would be limited to one year (renewable). Under this
arrangement, small enterprises provide their own tools but, when required, mechanisms could be
established for SECOPI to provide financial assistance for the purchase of tools which the micro-
enterprises pay back through deductions from their monthly payment. This maintenance alternative
can also be used to encourage SECOPT employees to resign from their jobs to take on a road
maintenance contract. High level staff from DGCCA visited Colombia in mid-1991 to become
acquainted with the concept.
1/  IDB's progam inludes funds for the preparation of a highway mnual.
I/  Tbe twercn  aisane componen will inchde the aplication of new technologies in road surfacing and slope stbility.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
13.   With increasing maintenance work done by the private sector, it will be easier to link the
allocation of funds to explicit physical output (accountability). The existing system to audit district
performance is inadequate as it does not readily permit a comparison between funds spent and actual
work performed. This issue will be addressed under the IDB financed technical assistance to
strengthen DGC and DGCCA in contract management and performance budgets.
Road Maintenance Equipment and Workshops
14.   Concurrently with staff reductions and privatization of maintenance operations, DGCCA is
reducing its mamntenance equipment fleet from the current 11 16 units to 540. Forty three percent of
the equipment is non-operational and of this 10-15% is scrap. DGCCA is in the process of appraising
and auctioning the existing equipment to private contractors. One such auction was carried out very
successfully in early 1992 with the final selling price, on the average, well above the base price.
This, to some extent, was caused by the demand for construction equipment on the part of the
contractors bidding for on-going road works. Tied to the question of the equipment fleet is the future
of the regional workshops located in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, and of the crushing and asphalt
plants, four of each kind, which are located at various sites.- The regional shops were created to
take care of major repairs to SECOPT equipment leaving lighter repairs to the each of the thirteen
districts. This concept has not worked satisfactorily; shops are overstaffed and their productivity is
very low due in part to the unavailability of spare parts and the lack of specialized tools required to
work on heavy equipment. As a general rule, a piece of equipment entering the workshops for repair
would not be in working order for several months. Most of the delays are caused either by the time
it takes to order and receive the required spare part, or by the fact that every new entry would be
stripped of its usable parts to facilitate the repair of a prior arrival, thus, when the requested spare
part arrives, the equipment unit is in need of other parts. As a result of this practice (to some extent
unavoidable given the inefficient procurement process), most of the workshop space is taken up by
dismantded equipment in search for usable parts. DGCCA is currently streamlining the procurement
procedures, in general, and studying a number of options with regards to the future of these shops
including the participation of the private sector. Also, the assistance to be provided by the IDB will
address these issues.
Axle Weight Control
15. The Transport Directorate (DGT) of SECOPT is responsible for enforcing axle load
regulations as well as vehicle dimensions and overall weight restrictions. Axle load regulations were
enacted in 1976 (rable 4). The axle limits set forth in the 1976 legislation for the most common axle
arrangements are: 8 tons for single axles with dual wheels; 14.5 tons for tandem axles with dual
wheels; and 18.5 tons for triple axles with dual wheels. Also the legislation establishes maximum
weights for each truck configuration; these maximum legal weights range from 12 tons for two axle
trucks to 49 tons for five axle articulated trucks. There are 15 axle load control stations at various
locations on the primary road network which record the vehicle type and weight and other valuable
/ An,sbalt plants are located at: El Palrar near San Pedro Sul, (2 plants), Nacaome in the south, and Rio
oiadAo on the road Tegucigalpa-Cataam. Cnuhing plants are located at: El Palmar, Ojo de Agua on the
road betwoen Togucigalpa and Danli, and Rio Hondo and Guayave on the road to Cata_m.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
information on the type of merchandise being transported and its origin and destination. In 1986, the
regulations were relaxed to permit truckers to carry an additional 15% load. This measure increased
the overall permissible weight for articulated trucks by 4 to 5 tons, depending on the vehicle size. No
studies are available on the impact of this measure but the current administration is going back to the
1976 legislation. The IDB program will examine this issue and develop and implement a system of
axle-load controls, which includes the procurement of related equipment.
Design and Implementation of a HIighway Mnagement System
16.   To enable SECOPT to prepare systematic pluri-annual road investment and performance plans,
organize maintenance activities particularly maintenance by contract, monitor program implementation
and equipment management system and train SECOPT personnel, the efforts undertaken to implement
the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model, Version HI (HDM-l) is being
supplemented by the establishment of a highway management system under the IDB loan.
Highway Expenditues
17.   Given the deterioration of the network in the last few years, it can be concluded that there has
been an inefficient use of limited road maintenance resources. Also, the lack of an adequate auditing
system and of sufficient and appropriate equipment, have contributed to this process. To ensure the
road network receives the attention it needs, the Government should guarantee a continuous and
timely flow of funds to provide adequate maintenance levels. The present administration has shown a
deot nite commitment to rehabilitate and properly maintain the present infrastructure and has made
additional funds available for road maintenance activities.
IF.   The table below shows the expenditures on road construction and rehabilitation (DGC) and
road maintenance (DGCCA), for the period 1988-1991. As no earmarking exists (with the exception
of the tolls being collected at San Pedro Sula), road works are funded through central government
budget appropriations and external sources. During 1990 and 1991, DGCCA's expenditures
correspond to the rehabilitation works currently underway on the primary road network (Northern
Highway, Southern Highway etc.). DGCCA's 1991 expenditures, which more than doubled the 1990
levels, were channeled to remove the existing maintnance backlog. As road rehabilitation tapers off
in four to five years, maintenance financing is expected to increase even fuiher. Prior to 1990,
nearly 70% of the road maintenance salaries were paid to personnel not involved in maintenance
operations (administrative personnel). The staff reduction measures underway in DGCCA are
addressing this issue. Out of the 1000 employees laid off during 1990, 90% were from the above
group diminishing considerably the percentage of non-productive staff. Since January 1991, an
additional 400 employees were let go and again a large proportion of them came from the same
group.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
Expenditures in the Road Sector 1988-1991
(in million US$)
l _a   Rez-Ilfat  _____
1988          23.3             8.8
1989          23.0             8.7
1990          22.0             8.7
1991          55.0            18.9
Source: SECOPr
19.   By 1996, when the current rehabilitation effort is completed, the annual maintenance
expenditures needed to keep the paved road network in good condition and to provide a minimum
level of maintenance to the remaining network, will amount to approximately US$45 million. One
third of this amount will be spent on routine maintenance and two thirds on periodic maintenance. To
reach that expenditure level, the Government is planning to increase the maintenance budget as
follows: US$35 in 1993; US$37 million in 1994; and US$40 million in 1995. The average annual
unit cost of maintenance per kilometer of road are based on information provided by SECOPT on
recent contract prices. These unit costs are considered reasonable for budgeting purposes. Costs
range from US$2500-3000 for routine maintenance of paved roads including patching of road and
shoulders, clearing of right-of-way, cleaning and minor repairs of drainage, repair and maintenance of
traffic signs, etc. Equivalent cost for unpaved roads ranges from US$1500 to 2400. Periodic
maintenance uiit costs per km range from US$7000 for fog seal, US$15,000-20,000 for slurry seals
and single surface treatments and US$29,000-34,000 for double surface treatments. In the case of
unpaved roads, the cost of regravelling ranges from US$9000 to US$14,000. Depending on a
number of factors including traffic volume and climatic conditions, periodic maintenance operations
are carried out once every 4 to 7 years.
Project Priorities - Road Subsector
20.   The highest priority need in the road siubsector, as reflected in SECOPT's 1993-1996
Transport Sector Expenditure Program, is to continue with the on-going road network rehabilitation
efforts and to fully implement a comprehensive maintenance program which should reflect the policy
of the current administration of contracting with the private sector two thirds of the work. That
should be accompanied by an equally important effort of strengpthening the technical and institutional
capabilities of DGTT, DGC and DGCCA through technical assistance projects. The short term
priorities are (see also Table 5): (a) rehabilitation of the San Pedro Sula-Puerto Cortes (45 kIn) to



-74 -
AN NEX 3
Page 7 of 7
improve road access to the main port; (b) rehabilitation and widening of San Pedro Sula-EI Progreso
(25 km); (c) rehabilitation and widening of VUlanueva-Chamelecon (16 km) to increase the capacity
of this road which carries the heaviest traffic in the country particularly between San Pedro Sula and
the International Airport serving this city; (d) rehabilitation of the Pan American Highway (156 Km)
which is part of the Central America highway corridor. This road connects Honduras with the
neighboring countries of El Salvador and Nicaragua; (e) reconstruction of some sections of La
Entrada-Nueva Ocotopeque (165 tii:. This road forms part of an alternate Central America highway
corridor and provides access to Puerto Cortes for El Salvador and Guatemala; (f)
reconstruction/rehabilitation of Tegucigalpa-Catacamas (212 kn) to improve access to the eastern part
of the corridor; (g) reconstruction/rehabilitation of some sections of La Entrada-Copan Ruinas (62
kIn) to improve access to the tourist site at Copan; (h) paving of Siguatepeque-La Esperanza (66 km)
to improve access to the area and to reduce the total road costs; (i) rehabilitation of Choluteca-
Guasaule (44 km) to improve the road access to Nicaragua and the condition of the "natural corridor"
linking the Central American countries; 0) rehabilitation/periodic maintenance of Tela-La Ceiba (96
km) to correct existing problems w!Ib roads and bridges to rehabilitate some short sections of this
road and to seal the remaining of its length; (k) construction of Guasaule Bridge to provide connection
between Honduras and Nicaragua (a temporary 1-line bridge has been built in the interim); Q)
construction/rehabilitation of 350 km of feeder roads to improve access to markets for agricultural
products; and (m) road maintenance program.



TRANSIORT SECTOR REHABLITATION PROJECT
DISIRIBUTION OF ROAD NETWORK
(values in kns)
COPAN                       152.4      40.1    192.5               39.1              39.1     335.4     59.4   394.8       152.4       474.0       626.4
COTEPQUE                     92.9       -       92.9              106.4             106.4     108.8     42.5   151.3        92.9       257.7       350.6
OMAYAOA                   122.5      12.9    135.4    17.4       64.8     511.   133.3      222.4    132.9   355.3       139.9       484.1       624.0
L PARAISO                    79.3      41.1    120.4    41.5      394.3       -     435.8     619.3    572.3  1191.6       120.8      1627.0      1747.8
A PAZ                        78.6      45.0    123.6      -        3-.1     29.5    61.6      180.1    123.5   303.6        78.6       410.2       488.8
NTBUCA                            127.2    127.2     -        92.0      ISA    1074      257.1           _ 257.1                  491.7       491.7
FRANCISCO MORAZAN           296A       42.8    339.2    36.0       132.4      -     168.4    465.8    283.6   749.4         332.4      924.6      1257.0
SANTA BARBARA               173.4        -      173.4    12.6      80.0       -      92.6     840.4    128.5   968.9        186.0     1048.9      1234.9
LEMPIRA                       -        46.6     46.6      -       183.5       -     183.5     2862      1182    404.4         -        634.5       634.5
YORO                        199.1     167.9    367.0      2.3      48.3       -      50.6     441.5       -     441.5      201.4       657.7       859.1
ATLANTMA                    208.7        -      208.7           -        -             -      504         9.7   513.7       208.7      513.7       722.4
COLON                        133.8     21A      1552      -        102.1      -     102.1     366.4      98.7   465.1       133.8      588.6       722.4
VALJLE                       86.1                86.1              70.2       -      70.2     217.4    122.8   340.2         86.1      410.4       496.5
CHOLUTECA                   139.7               139.7    34.0     161.6       -     195.6     521.9      80.6   602.5       173.7      764.1       937.8
CORTES                      242.0               242.0    97.0      29.6       -     126.6     461.7      15.7   477.5       339.0      507.0       846.0
OLANCHE"                     125.7     309.5    435.2     -       3042        -     304.2     809.2    193.4  1002.6        125.7     1616.3      1742.0
ISLAS DE BAHA                 18.0     30.0      4t.0     0.6        -        -       0.6                 -       -          18.6       30.0        48.6
RAC         ADIOS              -         -        -       -       2462        -     246.2        -                                     246.2       246.2
OTaAL                     2148.6     884.5   3033.1   241.4    2086.8       96.0  24242    6637.6   1981.8  8619.4        2390.0    11686.7    14076.7
_       ._                                       E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
I 



ANNEX 3
- 76 -                                     Tabe 2
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABIUTATION ]PROJECT
1990 Average Daily Tim tlc (ADT) - Selected Road Sedons
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                 '.    .   ...... .  ....   ....   I '  .   _ .. .
Northemn Highway
Tegucigalpa - ComayagUa                         86                   3100
Comayaga - Siguatepeque                         28                   2600
Siguatepaque- Vilanueva                        102                   3600
Villanueva - Chamelecon                         14                   4500
Chamelecon - San Pedro Sub                      6                    6000
San Pero Sub - Puerto Conte                     57                   4500
Siuatepeque- La EBperazA                        70                    SO0
Southern Highway
Tegucigalpa - Sabanagrande                      35                   2500
Sabanagrande- 1icaro Galan                      57                   2SW
Pan Ameicm Hway
El Salvador (border) - Nacao,ne                 35                    1100
Nacaome - Jicaro Gaan                           S                    1300
Jicaro Galan - San Lorenzo                      8                    2100
Choluteca - El Banquito                         31                    1200
El Banquito - Nicaaguan Border                  32                    SOO
Wesoetn Highway
Chamelecon - Quimitan                           54                   2S00
Quimitan - La Entrada                           55                   IS00
LA Entmda- Santa Rosa deCopan                   46                   1200
Santa Rosa de Copan - Nueva Ocotepeque          92                   1200
La Bntrada - Copan                              62                    600
Sm Pedr SUIa - La Cdbm Highway
San Pedro Sub - Aiport Road                     11                   12000
Airpon Road-E -Pmgreso                          16                   6S00
13 Prog     - Toyo:                             20                   1700
Toyos - Tela                                    40                    1700
Tal- La Maica                                   66                    1800
LaMasca - La Caba                              40                    4000
La Cae  - lutp                                  32                    9D0
jutispa - Sava                                  55                    650
Sava - Olanchito                                43                    400
El Progro- Yoro                                132                    S00
Teggapa - catacama
Tegudgalpa - Tabag                              55                   2200
Talaga - Guaimica                               35                    900
ausmica - Juticalpa                             81                   1000
JutLalpa - Catacama                             40                    1100
Tegacigapa  Las Manos
Tegucigalpa - Danli                             96                   2200
Dan - Las Mmos                                  30                   1500
Source: SECOPT



ANNEX 3
- 77 -                                    Table 3
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR EEHABELITATION PROJECT
Indicators of HLbway Dennald 1970-LM
. b =5 ~~                                                    ..' -.-!. : ..
-     -                -                         -S    e-
Poputio (ousands)        2,535        2,914       3,413        4,041       4,7S811*/      2.8         3.2          3.4         3.3
GDP (millions of 1978.   2,403        2,876       4,090         4,323       4,979         3.7         7.3          1.1         2.9
Lampu)                                                     I
VehiCles in Circulation  28,706      43,838       71,C06       102,014     154,644g1      8.8         10.1         7.5          S.7
- AutomobleU            12,630       18,152      25,595       35,981        50,405       7.5          7.1         7-1          7.0
- T-mck & Utility hI    13,492       20,583      37,723       54,277        86,178       8.8         12.9         7.6          9.7
- Buss                   2,584       5,103        7,688        11,756      18,061        14.6         8.5          8.9         90
Passener ca/1000          5.0          6.2          7.5          8.9         10.6         4.4         3.9          3.5         3.6
A/ Ths figue. are estimate.
hI Ut  vdidle. inlude pick-up ad vans.



HONDURAS
TRANSFORT SECTOR REEBABUAFFATION PROJECr
Axle Load Lesation
C 2          dt                    12,000      4,000    8,000                                   5,055s
C 3                              18,S00     4,000    14,500                                   7,768
I~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..                             . .     _ _ _ ___              _ _ _ _ _
C 4                             22,450      4,000    18,450                 I                 1,240l
|C2 - R2                            28,000      4,000    8,000    8,000    8,000                 11,471
C2 - R3    -34,50                                4,000    8,000    8,000   14,500                10,535
|   C3 - R2       iA34,500                    4,000    14,500    8,000    8,000                11,471 em h
C3 - R3              37,000                    4,000    14,500    6,000   12,500                13,668
2 -     Sl                       120,000      4,000     8,000    8,000                         7,760
17_   - S2           .26,500_   4,000    8,000    14,500                                       9,480_l
T3 - Si, 26500                                4,000    14,500    8,000             .           9,350
C3 - S2                           33,000      4,000    14,500    14,5  00                      11,070
73 - S3                           37,000      4,000    14,500   18,450                         13,995
2-S I -R2                         36,000       4,000    8,000    8,000    8,000  13,0S3        1053
T3-S2-R2                           49,000          4,000    14,500    8,000    8,000            14,773
C3                              14,875      4,000    10,875    8                             7,030
Source: SECOPT         -



Tabe S : FRANSPoRT SECTOR RIEHUAIUTATION PROJECT
ROAD EVEOTMENf PROGRAM 1993-.1"6
VALUS UBN MbLUON OF 1992 US. DOLLARSI
SOURCE                                                                             FUNDS           1993         1994           1995          1996
OF                                      tYlE OF       LENOTH  START   TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN
FINANC            NAME OF PROJECT         PROJECT        Pwi.   DATE   COST        (L       El)     t      F      L      F      L      F      L      F
VA      ChakaemCOuaasaB                  AsbabbIaon     44.00  1993    5.72      1.14    4.568   0.11   0.46   0.67   2.29   0.46   1.83
VA      Tal-L.a Cobs                     Rahabitaon     90.00  1994    8.76      1.76    7.00                  0.36   1.40   0.88   350   0.62   2.10
VA      F eadd Roads                     Rehabikgatn    360.00  1994    4.87     0.97    3.90                  0.19   0.70   0.49   1.96   0.29    1.17
VA     Hfd,e   .                         RahabtmIan            1995    6.30      1.28    6.04                                0.38   1.61   0.88   3.63
TAnYAN  * Sana FA de Cepan-ftelaa         R.hablatlon     44.00  1886    2.68      0.96    1.72   0.96   1.72
PMA      Cana de8. Accao                 RAhagblaston    600.00  1990    0.93    0.28    0.66   0.28   0.66
F.N.   * La UnkIaMwnm                    Rahablltan      8.20  1992    1.78      1.78    0.00    1.78
DS    * Cucnyagua-Frntna               RAahMIItkn       91.60  1993   11.61      - -4    13.26   1.40   7.96   0.94   6.31
we    * CheanwinLa Entrads               Rhhabilation    103.88  1990    3.32    0.40    2.92   0.40   2.92
DO     * Jilco GaulaEIEapno             RhabimlloDn    110.20  1992    6.69      0.99    6.60   0.82   4.67   0.18   0.93
DS    * LaEntradeCcuyaoua               Rhhabuatlon     73.30  1992    10.07    1.61    8.56    1.26   7.14   0.26   1.43
06      La EtsradaCopan Rulnaa           Rehabtmtion    61.90  1993    4.80      0.72    4.08   0.32   1.81   0.40   2.27
F.N.   * San SeboofariaBaclaa            Rhabilhatlon    64.00  1992    0.72     0.72    0.00   0.33           0.39
es    * El Prograo-Tab                   Rehabiatlaon   64.40  1990    7.72      4.80    2.92   4.80   2.92
TAIWAN   * Gracla-Son Juan                 Rahabiatitn     40.00  1991    3.16     O.0R     3.16          1.19          1.96
PRODERE  * C_amna da Acams                 Rahabflhaon     39.00  1990    0.07     0.      0.00   0.07
F.N.   * Dai-San Bumnavntura             Rahbldbaon      43.00  1992    0.19      .9    0.00   0.19
F.N.   * Cam. Vac Nacam_AMr-opocay q      aFhtalatbn     14.00  1995    0.16     0.16    0.00                                0.16
F.N.   * RA D.k -fl Porwn.                 _ Akatlan     52.00  1989    1.72     1.72    0.00    1.72
F.N.     Aguantaqumlqua4.amanfR Rabation                 b2.00  1994    0.93     0.93    0.00                  0.46          0.46
FIV.0PEC  T*gucgalpa-Le Vents              RAabdlatlon     62.00  1992    1.11     0.00     1.11          1.11
F.m.   * tw1alSuleco-Yorleo-Yom          RahablatUon     38.00  1992    6.09     6.09    0.00    1.16          1.66          1.66          1.66
F.N.     La Esparaiwaatoalsa             PAhablkUaon     36.00  1993    1.04     1.04    0.00    1.04
F.N.   * Carnc V chahs tiLLmpia          Rehabillation   30.20  1992    0.31     0.31    0.00   0.31
WS      Maijaram po mno da ob            Rahabiltaton    100.00  1993    1.76    0.63    1.23   0.08   0.19   0.16   0.35   0.16   0.36   0.16   0.36
F.N.     Lucama-La Encaaclan             RaFtation       26.00  1994    0.78     0.78    0.00                  0.66          0.22
CASE    Plo. Comas-Ftrn. Guatamala       Rshabitatlan  68.50  1993    14.74    0.00    14.74           8.33          6.40
Poe     Rehab. p,Ot mnm dalwr            Rehatation    100.00  1993    1.76      0.63    1.23   0.08   0.19   0.22   0.52   0.22   0.62
F.N.     El Por.M wt                     Rahabl P latbn  26.00  1989    1.02     1.02    0.00    1.02
F.N.     San Juan-La Eqaprtw              Aablhtaon      46.00  1994    1.30     1.30    0.00                  1.30
F.N.     Candnea Van. Opte. El Parao     Rahabillation   34.70  1992    1.64     1.64    0.00                  0.19          0.73          0.73
F.N.     Umpulaca-La Vktud-Sn Ant.-VIgla    Rehabilitation  38.00  1993    1.33  1.33    0.00                  0.66          0.78
F.N.   * Orlnta-Margall                  Rehablatllon    22.60  1992    0.22     0.22    0.00   0.22
F.N.   * Td^aSuyataLoa Pano.             Rehatation      16.00  1992    0.37     0.37    0.00   0.19           0.18
OS    * S;.Pad,oSdioSEIPmgEl             Ino wavemmnt    26.4  1992   14.07    2.11    11.96   2.11   11.96
CA0EI   * Son  doD Sul&-Fto. Corte&       npovmant        44.0  1992    22.22    1.86    20.37   1.86  20.37
IDS    ' Villanu.va-Charalcon            nprovaanwt      17.0  1992    2.46      0.37    2.08   0.37   2.08
F.N.   * AGua Cabnao-El Guahi            Conatnattn      14.0  1992    0.49      0.49    0.00   0.49
F.N.   * Erand-Son Franclco              Constnaction    26.0  1992    0.49      0.49    0.00   0.33           0.16
Ve    * Cmbo de acao ano.l               Contnatln      233.0  1991    1.28      1.04    0.24    1.04   0.24
F.N     Canca Vac. dpto. d. YOra        Coratnmclion           1993    0.89      0.89    0.00   0.22           0.67
F.N     C _nkwg de oaah Emo.l           Canlnatciln     241.3  1994    0.96      0.96    0.00                  0.96
F.N     Cam Vac. La Maaco Y El PoIwr     Canalnactlon     6.0  1994    0.06      0.06    0.00                  0.06
F.N    * TIdI.mapuaoca                   Conatuctln      16.0  1992    0.32      0.32    0.00   0.32
F.m    * micat.-o,vio _LaRit             Conatucion      11.6  1992    0.16      0.16    0.00   0.16



TiM. S  TRANSPORT UCTOR M0011JTATION PROJECT
ROAD WVESI1BT PROGRAM 133315#
IVALUES U 1MWON OF 1162 UA. DOLLARSI
SOURCE                                                                              FUNDS            1113         1994           1S96          1196
Of                                       TYE OF        LENGTH   START   TOTAL   LOCAL  FORElNi
FEANC.            NAMEOFFROJECT            fflOJECT       maI   DATE   V IT         Il     IF       L      F       t      F      t      F      L       F
FP.1     CM. Vie. SL NhId-iEI Vi_d       Conurua"         10.0  1996    % ^       0.20    0.00                                 0.30
KFW    * Cim diassai e.)                  constn_ction    60.0  192    0.24        0.07    0.17   0.07   0.17
D5       Oom. Owsg*Lkim                  Carullan         37.0   190    0.72      0.00    0.72           0.72
fN    * M1,_1,"                          Cmn_auan         18.0  1912    0.13      0.11    0.00   0.10
F.W      O    _rp.I.up _.Yu.a.'m         Cinuwnasln       e00.0  1994    0.71     0.78    0.00                   0.66          0.13
F.N    * Ciod.asseeb. iblap              Cantedon         24.0  1992    0.1l      0.16    0.00   0.16
F."       _anads' Jo Or.-SOL Am. dk 4N.    CA _nsdmn      13.   1S99     0.64     0.64    0.00                                  64
P36    * Cas. de  >cm   ".In                             474.2  1988    0.22      0.20    0.02   0.20   0.02
6.tJ     Cmas iso. dp. Oknd_ y YVoa      C _nstnacon     286.0  196    3.70       3.7     0.00                                1.56          1.86
f.6      Los Fme.Sam Jusa.Ba  Ca"e       Conuiulln        17.6  1912    0.16      0.16    0.00                   0.18
F.M.     ftaul Me Gurailde               add" CDOI               1994    0.69     0.68    0O.                    0.68
F.".     Fuenteu                         bldg. Cant              1913    6.70      6.70    0.00    1.10          1.90          1.90
f..    *Ae. Can. Jaoanin. Lema    Bdg  cone.                     111111C2    2.40  2.40    .00    1.48           0.02
F.M.     ft... doe^Ag.". fd mw           6Mg. Cmiii              1994    0.33     0.33    0.00                   0.33
F.".     Puene Los 1Mhw                   bdd. Const.            1996    036      0.36    0.00                                 9.35
F.N.     ft. dl O_yip No.1 v No.2        bdg. Cana.              1994    0.33     0.33    0.00                   0.33
FA.        oame do Susloy di Lem,        bdg. Canal.             1996    0.00     0.00     0.00                                0.09
F.M.   * Ares skiedo M_mm                 bdg. CoM.              1992    0.10     0.16     0.00   0.16
F.M.   *  1rl fPidre Aaoni               bldg. CMn".             1992    0.06     0.05    0.00   0.05
F.F.     Puartt de Mdidw                 bddg. Canl.             1993    0.37     0.37    0.00   0.09            0.09          0.09          0.09
F.".     Parnt. Ae eage La Cobe           adg. Canel             1996    0.08     0.08    0.00                                 0.06
TAMWAN  * fe. Santa RasS4masl.             bddg. Conat.            1992    0.29     0.00    0.29           0.29
F.N.   * P. Flardoe.wL B n4Hsmjr         bdg. Conai              1992    0.10     0.10    0.00   0.10
F.M.   * PuntRie m   S.                  bdd2 CmiiiL             1012    0.10     0.16    0.00   0.16
F.N.   * Ieo, scbre Rb AmaiNb            bdgo CmigL              1992    0.11     0 :..    0.00   0.11
F.N.     ft. r. Ouap impeaL S.F. Beocm n   kleo Conet            1996    0.69    'J.S9    0.00                                 0.36          0.36
F.N.     Prt". Cbnaaen                  bedge COL                196    0.07     0.07    0.00                                 0.07
In8    * Sguapiqu.qLa Eipiraa           PftAu            06.70  1992    6.78      4.06     1.72   4.08   1.72
we       SonFco.de LPe f.Enb.0sl.Oa      Pewhi          168.00  199S    23.89    3.68    20.31                                 1.79   10.15   1.79   10.16
AD       P_y. 130 km. Cam. Vechlbs       Pevh            130.00  1993    20.00    0.00    20.00          6.00           6.00          6.00          6.00
F.M.     SomeCaNneas                     Prwha            12.00  1996    0.93     0.83    0.00                                 0.93
AIVAN    Lo Piaz.oesaorun                 Pivhi          10000  1996    4.6e       0.00    4.60                                        1.11          3.44
F.N.     Pia lInsa.)Carsald               PsIa            41.00  1996    2.11     2.11     0.00                                0.93          1.19
Kw6      Tols-Sn. Fco. de Le Pm          P_ralng         22.00  1993      .73     0.68    3.17   0.22   1.27   0.34   1.90
TAWAN  * Tal4aviSVii de Sin Fit_siss       P_*q            60.00  1990    2.96      0.74     2.21    0.74                 2.21
TOTAL  246.04   76.31   1".63  35.13  96.12  16.63  32.76   S.06  26.S2   9.48   25.74
CODES:
Raeos Wdd el 1b13. 1he sepreans  56% of lt t1td                        CABO        *   Conud Amwale fa  for etanarcb heutWa
_weAma  olde pedd 101301996                                            F.N.        a   loa Fund.
AID         Agenyt            tOib_uland Dewepat                                   FIVWOFEC     a   Fonda. de hiwiln Vruolanas tVew_bIun lawasamw  Fundl -
PA          6antd  Oewjaopmnt Association                                                           Orgenbean of Petboen Expoen Cwmlele
IN           wAMin DOwloPMiN Cank                                                  KFW         *   Kmdlankt kws W.detuf   Ioewman Oowvmnw   Fiacn
FRODM       *   Le" Fness   lag,.
11 a hw.ud. sansnta c__s edd two   iltan lefftb lan  and th   attdln    et .               W  lane.                                XII



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 12
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
THE BRIDGE DEPARTNET
EVALUATION OF INSTITUTIONAL AND TECICAL CAPABILiTIES
I. The  an ton of the Bridge Function in SECOPT
1.    The current organizaion structure of the "Direccion General De Caminos" fragments the
management of bridge design, maintnance and construction. The following discussed how the five
departments presendy control the operations related to the design, construction and maintenance of
structures on the road system:
(a) Tbe Stru     Dqpartmt
The organization structure of this department consists of a section Head, two engineers,
two technicians, one secretary and one driver. The department is understaffed and does
not have the proper expertise, support or power to carry its mandate. The department
occupying three rooms is poorly equipped and uses antiquated computing and filing
facig' ies. The staff has little exposure to modem methods of bridge design and most of
their experience is related to few types of standard concrete structures.
The main function of the Structures Department is to arrange for having typical bridge
designs available for the construction of new bridges. They have no direct control on
the mantenance and construction function of bridges, or on bridge related assignment
given by other departments to consultants.
(b) The Road Coutructlon Dqrtment
This department has no engineers with direct bridge design experience. Depending on
available funds and expertise, the Road Construction Department have the authority to
award to consultants or to the Structures Department, the design of new bridges. If a
design is awarded to a consulting firm, the firm will have the complete freedom to
establish its own design without the approval of the Structures Department. The
supervision of bridge construction is normally given to a consultant who also reports to
the Construction Department and prepares all contract documents (there is no Contract
Preparation Department for all SECOPT, each defrutment prepares its own contracts.)
(c) The Specbl Projects Dqermet (Modular Bridges)
This is a special unit for the fabr:ation of wood trss bridges used on rural roads.  mhe
unit consists of one section head, an engineer and 8 construction workers. The wood
engineer has his office within the Structures Department, however, ht -:ports to the hoad



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 12
of the Modular Bridges unit.
(d) The BID-BIRF Loan Department
This Department controis the disbursement of loan funds from the international lending
agencies. The unit is very powerfil and looks like an organization within the
organization. Although this Department has no bridge engineers, bridge works funded
by this unit are handed over to consultants without necessarily involving the Structures
Department. Contract documents and drawings may or may not be delivered to the
Structures Department after the bridges are built.
(e) The Maintenance Deparlment
This Department, supported by the maintenance staff in the districts, is responsible of the
maintenance of roads and bridges. However there is not a single person in this
department who is qualified to inspect, evaluate or rehabilitate a bridge.
There is no bridge inspection and rating system at SECOPT. It appears that br!dges get
inspected when the damage is very obvious or severe. This is largely due to the fact that
maintenance for bridges has been neglected and that the maintenance department is
ill-equipped to handle the task. There is evidence pointing to the fact that a great deal of
money could be saved if bridge maintenance was handled with professional attention.
I. BRIDGE INVENTORY
2.     Although there is no recording system for the inventory of structures on the 12,000 km of
road and highway system, a limited summary of the inventory of bridges compiled in 1986 by
SECOPT shows the number of bridges on the primary, secondary and rural highway system as being
338, 194 and 357 respectively. Recent unofficial estimates for the number of bridges on the primary
highway system was in the 600 range. About 238 structures have been identified in a 1992 report as
part of a bridge rehabilitation study. Another table of 65 structures was also supplied in a separate
document.
3.     Municipal bridges are not handled by SECOPT. The relation between the municipalities and
SECOPT is not formalized.
4.    It is also estimated that the number of pipe or box culverts per km of road varies between 1
(southern region) to 4 in the northern region. The great majority of these structures were built after
1970.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 12
m. TYPES OF HIGHWAY STRUCTURES
5.     Highway bridges in Honduras are not specifically designated to a certain type of traffic. It is
safe to assume that all bridges can be used for any type of traffic whether it is trucks, light vehicles,
school or transit buses, pedestrians, bicycles or animals. The majority of existing structures are made
of concrete, built over 25 years ago with less than three spans and an average span length less than
20.0 m.
6.     The majority of structures on the highway system are of the standard type set by the
Structural Department of SECOPT. Standard plans for typical bridge spans up to 30.0 m are used for
about 80% of the new structures. The remaining 20% of the structures are non-standard and are
primarily designed by consultants.
7.     The expensive cost of imported steel has almost eliminated the construction of new steel
bridges, However few older long span truss bridges were constructed around the 1940's. Most of
these bridges are showing signs of distress due to lack of maintenance.
Standard Stuctural Types
(a) Concrete Bridges. The majority of bridges are made of reinforced concrete slab on
reinforced concrete girders. Post-tensioned AASHTO type girders are used for spans
from 25.0 m to 30.0 m. All spans are simply supported.
Bridge abutments are normally constructed using a reinforced concrete L shaped beam
acting as a ballast wall as well as a beam cap supporting the superstructure. The beam is
either supported on a tapered stone bearing wall or on concrete piles. Neoprene bearing
pads, 1" thick, are used to support each girder. Intermediate supports are made of
reinforced concrete hammerhead type wall.
The bridges have inadequate detailing practice, particularly in the earth retaining
substructure, railing system, expansion joints, drainage system, approach slabs and slope
protection. The design of the deck slab does not take advantage of modem methods of
structural analysis to reduce tLe percentage of steel on the deck, while the design of the
girders does not take advantage of the continuity of the spans to reduce the material in
the structure.
Most of the current maintenance problems are due to the fact that many bridges were
built or rehabilitated using the oame inadequate detailing practice.
(b) Wood Bridges. Few truss wood bridges have been used by SECOPT in the last 9 years
fbr bridge spanning less than 24 m on the secondary road system. These bridges are
fabricated by the Puentes Modulares section of SECOPT. The current cost of a 15 m
bridge is 15% less than a comparable one build with reinforced concrete material.
Considering the superior performance and functicnRlity of concrete bridges, it is not
advisable to continue building these short span woud bridges until a proper condition
investigation is undertaken. The cost of the substructure component accounts for about



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 12
50% of the total cost of a short span wood bridges; the other 50% is primarily governed
by the cost of few steel gusset plates. It appears advisable to use these bridges for the
longer spans (20 m - 25m) and to find a cheaper way to purchase steel sheets of smaller
sizes to fabricate gtuset plates.
(c) Culverts. Small culverts are made of concrete pipes ranging in diameter between 18" to
72". The majority of culverts spanning between 2.0 m to 3.0 m and having a clear
height between 2.0 m to 3.0 m, are made using a simple concrete slab supported on
stone bearing walls. Modern reinforced concrete single cell box are also used. Standard
culvert designs appear to have not been updated since 1976.
Few multiple box culverts have been built. Most, however, appear to have shear
deficiency due to an inadequate design of the haunch size at the connection between the
vertical walls and the top slab.
IV. DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS
8.    The current practice is to design bridges using AASHTO loading HS 20-44; however most of
the existing bridges were designed over 20 years ago using HS 15-44 loading. There is no record
showing which bridges were designed with what loading specifications. The axle load regulation
enacted in 1976 and enforced by some 14 control stations specifies for 15 truck configurations, the
axle weight and total permissible truck load. However, there was no study done to evaluate the
impact of load regulation on the safety of existing structures and on the adequacy of current bridge
design loading. Giving the age of the existing structures, it is likely that a large number of them are
substandard and need to be posted for lower loading.
V. BRIDGE REHABILITATION
9.     Bridge rehabilitation work is badly needed in Honduras. The extent of this work could only
be realized when all bridges have been surveyed, inspected and evaluated.
10.    The lack of funds, good design and rehabilitation standards as well as technical expertise to
perform prompt evaluation could be detrimental to the success of future rehabilitation projects.
VI. LOCAL EXPERTISE AND BRIIGE DESIGN PRACTICE
11.    The curet bridge design practice in Honduras is not taking advantage of the available
modern technology. This is no surprise since none of the bridge engineers at SECOPT has had
adequate exposure outside Honduras. The few engineers in Hondtras who had outside exposure are
working as private consultants to consulting firms and are not in a position to influence a change in
SECOPT. There is also concern about the level of instruction to future bridge designers in the local



- 85 -
MAN 4
Page S of 12
universities. Scores of bridges have failed to perform due to bad design practice an issue that will be
address under the project through the development of a Structural Standards Manual (para. 16).
12.    Until recently when several bridges have collapsed due to scour and sedimentation or
settlement activities at the bridge site, bridge hydrology and soil investigation studies have never been
a concern to bridge designers in Honduras. It is no surprise that the majority of required bridge
rehabilitation in Honduras, is due <x the practice of planning bridge sites and geometry without
studying the hydrology at the sitr,. It appears that existing expertise in bridge hydrology is limited
and the hydrological data is insufficient. To make things worst, the design of bridge substructure and
of slope protection is deficient.
VII. TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE FOR THIE IMPROVEMIENT OF THE BRIDGE FUNCTION
Objecdives
13.    Organkation Stuctue. Creation of a new Structural Department with strong mandates to
mane all functions related to bridges design, standards, construction, maintenance, management
system and archiving of bridge documents.
14.    The new department would have permanent competent technical staff to maintain the system
strong and efficient. It would use help from consultants as much as possible, maintain expertise by
doing at least 5% of complex work and shall always have the power and capability to manage the
bridge function. It would be supported by the districts staff to maintain its operation.
15.    The above recommendation would be difficult to achieve without changing the image of the
organization, equip the bridge function and create incentives to attract a competent bridge engineer to
lead the task.
16.    Bridge Standards. A new set of bridge standards produced by a committee of competent
bridge designers would be produced and published as a Structural Standards Manual. The manual
should be based on modern design practice with due consideration to local conditions. The manual
would address all procedures related to the preparation of drawings and contact documents of bridges
and would include drawings for the approved standard details of bridge components. Th. standards
would be used by aU bridge designers in Honduras, and would be maintained and updated by the
Structural Department.
17.    Bridge Mangement. A bridge management section within the Structures Department would
be created to take charge of the inentory records, inspection, maintenance, evaluation and
rehabilitation of the existing strucures. The new bridge management section would coordinate its
activities with the road management section and would be equipped to quickly respond to the needs
anywhere in Honduras. This new section would be responsible of setting its bridge management
standards, training personnel to inspect bridges and of supervising consultants, approving contracts
and evaluating priorities based on available funds.
18.   DocumenMent. A document management procedure would be established to
ensure the availability and secrit of design and drawing records at all times. A survoy of xciting



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 12
records would be made and all effort would be made to collect missing records.
19.    Contract Managemet. To maintain consistency and quality assurance, the process of
preparing and awarding bridge contracts would be standardized, irrespective of the source of
funding.
20.    Education and Training Progam. A program would be set to improve the technical
capabilities of bridge engineers and technicians. This may involve exchanging information in
international conferences, training programs for engineers inside and outside Honduras, acquiring
modern computerized bridge programs and setting a good educational bridge program for engineering
students in universities.
Vm. TERM OF REFRENCE FOR THE DESIGN AND EIrMMATION OF BRIDGE
MANAGEMENT SYSIEM
21.    SECOPT intends to develop and implement a bridge management system (BMS) to assist in
handling the ever increasing number of functionally or structurally deficient structures which need
rehabilitation or replacement.
22.    An effective bridge management system will help SECOPT to organize the activities related
to the planning, designing, construction, maintenance, rehabilitation and replacement of bridges. Also
a BMS should a-sist management in defining the optimum cost effective solutions to achieve the
required level of services within the allocated fumds and to identify future funding requirements.
23.    The system will be managed by SECOPT with the Cooperation of consultants.
24.   The following describe the terms of reference for the technical assistance to develop and
implement the components of the bridge management system.
Define Organiion Chart for the Bridge Function
25.    The consultant shall in consultation with SECOPT management define, for each phase of the
implementation of the BMS, the functions to be carried out and, assign positions on the organization
chart and define the mandate and requirement for each position. The role of consultants, district staff
and Head office shall be identified. Based on this chart, SECOPT shall assign a task force which will
assist the consultant in developing and implementing the components of the bridge management
system.
The following processes most be addressed by the new organization:
(a) Structural Standards and Procedures.
(b) Design aids and computational support
(c) Records storage.
(d) Structural planning process.



- 87-
ANNEX
Page 7 of U
(e) Hydraulic, soil, foundation and structural design.
(f) Approval process.
(g) Contract preparation
(h) Construction supervision.
(i) Bridge management process (Inventory, Inspection, evaluation and rehabilitation).
Present a Development and lmplementation Plan for BMS
26.    The consultant shall:
(a) Survey the market for the available BMS which could be used and/or modified to fit the
needs of SECOPT.
(b) Prepare a detailed overview and schedule of development and implementation of all
modules of a computerized BMS. Considerations shall be given to the linking of the
individual modules of a BMS to eventually form one integrated system.
(c) Define the structure of the data base used by individual modules to perform the functions
of the BMS. The data structure shall allow modules of the BMS to be implemented in
phases, and shall identify the key data linking the individual modules.
(d) Advise SECOPT for the setup and specification of hardware and software necessary to
operate the system.
(e) Identify with SECOPT the manpower required to support the BMS and process by which
the operation of the system could be maintained.
Deliver and Implement a Bridge Inventory Module
27.    This module shall contain the necessary information about the geographic, structural and
historical characteristics of individual structures on the highway system in Honduras. SECOPT snail
be the custediar of this data base.
28.    To set up this system the consultant shall:
(a) Review the available inventory of data on highway structures and after consultation with
SECOPT, finalize and document the input manual for the bridge inventory module. The
manual shall include all information related to input instructions, output repor1s and how
to operate and maintain the system.
(b) Prepare a report consisting of computerized maps showing the inventory of structures in
Hond;ras. These maps could be used by other modules to graphically represent various
data and, in the future, as a base for the development of a geographic Information
System.



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 12
(c) Agree with SECOPT on the bencmark tests which will constitute an acceptance test for
the system.
(d) Deliver a PC based Bridge Management System and install and test on SECOPT
production hardware. Resolve bugs and fine tune the system using the agreed
benchmark test.
(e) Define with SECOPT any extra features required to add to the system and suggest a plan
for its implementation.
(f) Conduct on site sessions to train users on how to collect and input the data, how to
obtain reports, how to maintain the system integrity and how to backup the database.
Deliver and Implement a Bridge Inspecton and Raft  Motiule
29.    This module shall contain the results o' non-routine and routine inspection and appraisals of
structures by trained staff of SECOPT and/or consultants. The reports generated by this system are
essentially utilized by engineers to setup a five year maintenance and rehabilitation plan. The
significant aspect of this module is the way a distress in a component of the structre is rated and on
how the severity of this rating affects the performance, functionality and the longevity of the
structure.
30.    To set up this system, the consultant shall:
(a) Set up, in consultation with SECOPT, tha process by vhich structures get inspected and
the philosophy of rating of bridge components.
(b) Prepare a Bridge Inspection Mamual consisting of:
fi)   Technical Information:
This part will provide:
- Definitions of technical terms used in bridge inspection forms.
- For each component of the bridge structure, describe using sketches and
pictures, how to identify and rate the various performance defects, possible
cause and its impact on the performance of the structure.
(ii)   Deltl Condition Suveys
This section is used to document the riremaen  of a detailed condition survey
and how to quantify the deteriration in the strce for the purpose of
establishing the type of rehabilitation and prepare cost esmates and setup
contract documents. Detail condition survey shall cnly be don, for components
identfied needing rehabilitation within two years from the time of the visual
inspection. Depending on its complexiy, the survey could be done at the time of
visual inspection or later using specialized equipment and crew. It shall be
uplated if necessary prior to the final preparation of the contract document.



- 89 -
ANX 4
Page 9 of 12
(iii)  Operatig Instrucon For Bridge Inspection and Rating Module
The section sh!ii iaclude the forms to be filled by inspectors and which contain
the data for inspection and rating of bridge component, all information related to
input instructions, output reports and how to operate and maintain the system.
(c) Agree with SECOPT on the benchmark tests which will constitute an acceptance test for
the system.
(d) Deliver a PC based Bridge Inspection module and install and test on SECOPT productiorn
hardware. Resolve bugs and fine tune the system using the agreed upon benchmark test.
The system shall compile and check data obtained from visual and detailed inspection
and produce multilevel reports for the condition of structures and an estimate of repair
cosi for structures that need rehabilitation within the next two years.
(e) Conduct on site sessions to train users on how to collect and input the data, how to
obtain reports, how to maintain the system integrity and how to backup the database.
Deliver and Implement a Bridge Mintenance and Rehabilitation Module.
31.    The function of this module is to set and prepare for the next fiscal year, a maintenance,
rehabilitation and replacement plan for the entire bridge infrastructure in Honduras. The model used
in the selection criteria shall utilize the data base information and optimize the selection taking into
consideration budget and political constraints input by the user and the effectiveness of repairs in
extenc.ag the life-cycle of a the network.
(a) To set up this system, the consultant shall:
(i)    Deliver a Bridge Maintenance and Rehabilitation Manual consisting of the
following sections:
- Policy and procedures for performing regular maintenance of highway
structures and for recording its yearly costs.
- A standard consultant's agreement to prepare structural evaluation and/or
contract drawings and documents for a rehabilitation project.
- Detail description of standard and non-standard tender items and special
provisions used i the preparation of rehabilitation contract documents.
- Guidelines for the evaluation of bridge adequacy and for the selection of
rehabilitation method for the differex.c component of the structuore
- Guidelines for the crieria to be used to define an aggregate score or an index
which descrbe the relative importance of a rehabilitation project. The input to
this criteria shall be supplied to a computer program which will screen the
inventory of rehabilitation and replacement projects and determine a selection
based on a given budget.



- 90 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 12
(b)   Deliver a PC based Bridge Rehabilitation module and install and test on SECOPT
production hardware. The module will:
(i)  Maintain data and prepare reports related to:
- Status of rehabilitation and replacement projects.
- Cost by project, district, tender item, etc..
- Posting of bridges
(ii)  Prepare an estimate of rehabilitation project given the quantities of tender
items.
(iii) Screen the inventory of rehabilitation and replacement projects, rank each
project and determine a rehabilitation plan based on a given criteria.
(c)   Agree with SECOPT on the benchmark tests which will constitute an acceptance
test for the system.
(d)   Resolve bugs and fine tune the system using the agreed upon benchmark test.
(e)   Conduct on site sessions to train users on how to select method of rehabilitation,
evaluate projects, post a bridge, prepare input data to estimate project cost or to
determine the best rehabilitation plan , how to obtain reports, how to maintain the
system integrity and how to backup the database.
Deliver and Implement a Bridge Analysis Module
32.    This will include design aids and programs to be made available to all bridge engineers. The
system should reflect the approved design standards to be used in bridge design.
33.    The consultant shall:
(a) Deliver or arrange the purchase of a bridge design system consisting of the computer
program, input instruction manual and examples for the following sub-modules:
(i) Program for the analysis of plane frame and plane truss structures.
(ii)  Program to analyze open and closed reinforced concrete culverts.
(iii)  Program to analyze semi-continuous bridges made of concrete slab on concrete
girders.
(iv)  Program to analyze bridges made of concrete slab on steel I girders.
(v) Program to analyze abutments and retaining walls.
(vi)  Programs to calculate the strength of the following:
- Reinforced concrete rectangular or T section.
- Steel truss member.
- Naked and composite concrete AASHTO type section.
- Naked and composite steel girder section.



- 91 -
ANNEX
Page 11 of 12
(vii) Utilities programs to calculate:
- Areas, Volumes, section properties, curves and profiles, etc.
(viii) Program to calculate and prepare reinforcing steel bar schedule to be included in
the contract document.
(a) Conduct lectures in bridge analysis and design and train engineers on how to use the
abnve computer programs for typical bridge problems
(b) Assist SECOPT engineers in producing culvert design manual.
(c) Assist SECOPT to set a training programs for engineers outside Honduras.
Assist in the Production of a Structural Standards Manual
34.    The Structural Manual provide reference to approved structural standard drawings, design
details, and procedures to be used in the preparation of structural contract documents.
35.    The consultant shall:
(a) Set up the terms of reference of a technical structural committee to be formed by
engineers from SECOPT and consultants from Honduras to develop the Structural
Manual.
(b) Review current structural standards and procedures adopted by SECOPT and/or
consultants and identify areas of improvements.
(c) In consultation with the structural committee, prepare the format and the preliminary
layout of the contents of the new Structural Manual.
(d) Survey existing standard in other countries and identify those areas in the manual which
could be adopted or modified.
(e) Assist the structural committee in the development of new structural standard and details
suitable for Honduras conditions.
(f) Assist in reviewing and editing the Structural Manual.
(g) Prepare a series of lectures and seminars to promote and train engineers on the use of the
new Structural Manual.
(h) Set up the procedure to maintain and distribute the Structural Standards and to enforce its
use in bridge construction.



-92 -
ANNE 4
Page 12 of 12
Setup the Requhments and Implementaion Plan for a Stuctral Record System
36.    The Structural Record System consists of three components:
(a) A data base module to keep track of the history of the structure and the location and
status of its related documents.
(b) A safe and organized record storage equipment.
(c) A bridge estimating data base system to keep records of the construction cost of all
bridge contracts as well as the cost of individual tender items.
37.    The consultant shall assist SECOPT to:
(a) Define the records which should be kept in the Structural Record data base, its
originator, custodian, borrower and the identification system to locate it in the storage
system.
(b) Design and select a system to store structural records and identify hardware and software
requirement to maintain the system.
(c) Design a data base management system to store and provide reports on key information
on the structural documents.
(d) Design a data base management system to track the history of projects, report and/or
estimate the cost of bridge construction and the price of each tender item.
(e) Implement the Structural Record System and train staff to use it and the custodian to
maintain it.



- 93 -
Page I or 9
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
The Ports Subsector
I. INTRODUCTION
1.   The Government of Honduras has undertaken the implementation of an important program of
economic reforms, with emphasis on export-led growth, the liberalization of foreign trade and the
encouragement of investment by the private sector. These' measures represent important challenges
for the port sector, which has to improve efficiency and expand capacity in order to meet increased
traffic and, on the institutional side, to adopt those changes that will encourage increased participation
by the private sector and thus faster reaction to users needs.
2.   The port sector, especially Puetro Cortes, has also the opportunity to generate additional
revenues for the country, through the creation of the right conditions of efficiency and price that will
encourage the development of the port as a regional distribution center for transshipment traffics, thus
serving as a regional distribution center. The port sector has also an important role to play in the
encouragement of the cruise ship segment of the tourist industry.
3.   In order to achieve these objectives, the port industry and port institutions, both public and
private, have to define and to adopt reforms and improvements, especially in the areas of
administration, operation, tariffs and investment.
H. PRESENT POSITION
Ports
4.   Honduras has six commercial ports. Five are on the Atlantic coas;. ?uerto Cortes, Tela, La
Ceiba and Puerto Castilla/Trujillo, with Roatan serving the Bay islands. The port complex of San
Lorenzo/Amapala is on the Pacific coast. The ENP is owner also of a number of other assets,
principally land at Tela, La Ceiba and Isla del Tigre. No precise figures were available on the area
of these lots and it is understood that in some cases, there is doubt concerning title.
Port Administaion
5.   The ports are administered by the Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP). This is an autonomous
public entity, established by Law No. 40 (16 Oct 1965), whose objective is "national economic
development, by means of the provision of adequate and efficient services and installations in the



- 94 -
Page 2 of 9
ports". The ENP received the assets and liabilities of Puerto Cortes in 1966, followed by those of
Tela. La Ceiba, Trujillo, Roatan and Amapala in 1974. San Lorenzo and Puerto Castilla were
constructed by the ENP during the period 1973 - 1921, to form the port complexes of San
Lorenzo/Amapala and Puerto Castilla/Trujillo respectively.
6.    The Board of Directors (Consejo Directorio) of the ENP includes the Ministers of the Economy
(who acts as President of the Board), of Transport, of Natural Resources and of the Secretariat of
Planning, Coordination and Budget, together with representatives of the Navy, the Chambers of
Commerce and Industry, organized labor and the national shipowners and agents. The General
Manager of the ENP is also a (non-voting) member of the Board. Among the responsibilities of the
ENP is to advise the 'Jovernment on port policy and there is no other office within Government
specifically concerned with port policy. Within the ports, control of ship entry and exit and the
control of pollution is the responsibility of the Port Captains (who report to the Direccion General de
la Marina Mercante, which in turn is part of the Navy). Other official bodies (Customs, Health and
Quarantine, Immigration, etc.) also intervene in the ports with their customary functions.
Ship Cal
7.    Ship calls in 1991 totalled 1,538, of which 1,445 were at Atlantic coast ports and 93 at San
Lorenzo on the Pacific coast. Container (Li/Lo) and Roll on/Roll off (Ro/Ro) vessels predominated,
with totals of 523 and 322, (34 % of all calls Li/Lo and 21 % Ro/Ro) respectively. A small
proportion of vessels have both Li/Lo and Ro/Rol' capabiiity and are classified as container vessels.
Puerto Cortes was the busiest port with 1195 calls, followed by Puerto Castilla with 187 calls. Tabie
1 gives details for 1990 and 1991.
Port Traffic
8.    Port traffic has increased from 2.32 million tons in 1975 to 3.59 million tons in 1991, which
represents an annual average growth of 2.8 %. Imports have increased from 1089 thousand tons to
1793 thousand tons over the same period, with an average annual growth rate of 3.2 % and exports
have grown from 1233 thoulsand tons to 1680 thousand tons, with an average annual growth of 1.9
%. The imports figure for 1991 includes an item "carga en transito" of 238 thousand tons. The
above figures also include a relatively small tonnage of coastal traffic, principally outward from
Puerto Cortes/La Ceiba to the Bay islands and to the province of Mosquitia, amounting to about 50
thousand tons per year.
9.    Traffic classified according to its form of presentation is shown in Table 2 for the period 1980
through 1991. Oil imports represent the single largest item of import cargo, followed by general
cargo. For exports, "specialized cargo" (pfedominately bananas) is the largest single category,
followed by general cargo. Dry bulks together make up about 20% of all traffic, excluding liquids.
[/    Li/Lo and Ro/Ro refer to the method of cargo handling usd by the ship. LiLo or 'Lif on /lift off' means that the containes
are lifted on and off the ship by ceane (which may be ether on the ship or on the quay), whilst Ro/Ro or 'Roil on Roll off' means
that the cargo eteo and leaves the ship on tralers or some other wheeled equipment.



Page 3 of 9
-       - *s. .  *       ot .' T ;}   t   traffic btween
.,                  *       (       x    ,.  ;9..      .   :' .  ~      '*   ~   /   g tjtl
'7]
lNtrtt Citilain 1983
'id v*.cii L!Ciawasou
-  ~  .  2  1                   1 i 5. ~~Mi~tsrhg trom  the
.jIj..7,"  ' .,k.99j I'.  .~                                 tcmii the reduced banana
.1i  ..'. ....~   9..2  ~                .    . 9.'2~    -i~tiribtr exports fro   the
T         ~                     -             . s.. ~       iroiv and tti  Fait coast of
.  -.. .  =  ,. : ;n iAlatnin. especially for
...    .   ..   .  ,  .   ... ..  :  * 1  i r.1  .i  *E i 1.ily at a rate
, ,* -' ::    d' t" 'pa J tolns (f cargo in 1980 to
I  .~~~        .'9'93, i I R, 199RRo traffic exceeded  I
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v  kcr     *-ou  14. %  a       1 ndI the peiu
9  1  '9  .     .t IM,1%no                         i   cmsof5
~ ~               .     ..  ~~~  ~i~~1  ~~~tNut 2  :1. onaccount of
'                ..                             s 2 v  . 9      .$ .. ('   .'.'  .:Containcrized and
..~         ,.           .      ..        ,. v-~  "9,~      4t,1,id by Puerto Castilla
9'~ . ~ ,X-2~t Er.tA Ti  htipment traffic. This
4,, ,         9        ,  L't   i. n t2i th uiiiiv be another
* 5,,    ; .    -9 ..    9.                   '9  ,  4   1 .   . i:  "  s:   s   1%.1taty z. dirixt call there.
. .~  ..         . - .  . < ~  hi.' another deep sea
Nr,   .  , $, .  ..   C ,.. .         S :. 2:       :*- :   ~ '                   n,   irom  a second
. t.r   , i:p -n.t betw  1n ship and



-96 -
ANNEX
Page 4 of 9
truck, for example from/to Nicaragua, presents further ontions, as does the movement of goods to
and from Free Zones within Honduras. The 1991 statistics for Puerto Cortes record a total of 260
thousand tons as "carga en transito", of which 68 thousand tons are recorded as "transbordo", i.e.
with destinations outside Ionduras. The remainder, 192 thousand tons, is classified as "redestino"; a
substantial proportion of this, probably 60 or 70% is Free Zone traffic.
15. Port statistics record three types of containerized and Ro/Ro traffic: "'ontainerized", handled as
lift on /lift off cargo, "trailers", which are integral box units with their own wheels and "chassis",
which are platforms or skeletal trailers, also with their own wheels21. Trailers and chassis are both
handled by Roll on/Roll off methods. The relative proportions of each type are shown in Table 4, for
units with cargo, empties and totals, for the years 1990 and 1991. ENP ports handled an estimated
106 thousand units in 1991, of which 84 thousand were containers and 22 thousand were trailers or
chassis. This is equivalent to approximately 123,000 TEU3' and 1.1 million tons of cargo.
Shipping Services
16. The principal international shipping services calling at Honduran ports are listed in Table 5 .
With the exception of Puerto Cortes and the specialized services for bananas, the average cargo
handled per ship call is relatively small and this implies that, especially on the Pacific coast, the
importance of the call for the shipowner is similarly modest. This factor, coupled with the
competition from nearby ports, indicates the necessity to take all possible measures to increase the
commitment of the shipowner to his Honduran port call, by either the potential of capturing additional
freight or by contracual obligations to local interests.
Port Imallalions and Equipment
17.  Port installations at the principal ENP ports are listed in Table 6. The investment program for
1992-1993 includes the reconstruction of berth IA (bulk liquids) in Puerto Cortes, the rehabilitation
of the jetty at Tela and relatively minor repairs to the berth and to the ex-timber shed at Puerto
Castdlla.
18. Ihe principal items of fixed and mobile cargo-handling and of floating equipment are shown in
Table 7. Ihe main items of fixed equipment are the gantry crane for container handling and the
banana loading elevators, both at Puerto Cortes. The gantry crane was out of action for much of
1991, following a ship impact but is now back in service. The trailing cable has been slightly
shortened, so dtht the crane is restricted to about 147ft less than its full run. There is also at Puerto
Cortes an unfinished cement installation consisting of five silos and an incomplete elevated conveyor
between silos and quay. Ownership of this installation has, it is believed, passed to the government
and a technical inspection should be made, to identify options and costs for its future use. Other than
the cement conveyor, there is no specialized equipment for the handling of dry bulks.
y/   Jdnawiid in DN utiatic " _ont.done, *fiurgonaa snd rastra reac&ely.
I/    TM - 20*I .quvaat unlu.



-97 -
ANNEXS
Page 5 of 
19.  The mobile cargo-handling equipmfAt consists of that rquired primarily for container handling
(straddle carriers, a top-lifter and tractors/chassis), for heavy lifts (truck mounted cranes) and also
which is needed for general cargo (forldift trucks, tractors and trailers). The heavy lift and gmneral
cargo equipment has an average age of 8-10 years and is available in sufficient quantitios to make up
for a down-time of about 35%, which is the average for the smaller equipment and somewhat less for
the larger machines. Most problems have been e,countered with the container handling equipment.
The straddle carriers include two Rubery Owen machines, about 24 years old and of which normally
only one is working; and two Nelcons, about 7 years old, which have suf,ared an engine
modification, and again normally widi one available. There is also a 45 ton top-lifter, whose
operation is obviously difficult to combine efficiently with the straddle carriers. Problems have also
been encountered with the comaim  tractors and 8 new items are currently being commissioned. The
floating equipment includes tugs, pilot launches and a high capacity cutter suction dredger, which is
much underutilized.
20. There is one workshop for civil engineering maintenance and four workshops for mechanical
maintenance: container handling equipment, general equipment, routine maintenance and a machine
shop. The usual problems are encountered with the shortage of spare parts and this has impeded the
implementation of preventative and planned maintenance schemes, so that the current practice is to do
first line routine maintnance, with breakdown and accident repair when the occasion arises. Record
keeping is on a job by job basis, with little synthesis of the data from individual machines in order to
provide management statistics. Work has been done entirely in the ENP workshops. Recently, as a
new policy, a contract has been given for the general overhaul of 6 tractors to a private firm. Cost
estimate for the first two items have been recently received, substantially higher than expected and are
under analysis. The division of maintenance in this way between ENP and outside workshops for the
same items of equipment tends to confuse responsibility for keeping the machines in good working
order. There is a proposal for the unification of the mechanical workshops in a new Central
Workshop to be constructed, although this does not appear to be appropriate for current policy
regarding the future role of the ENP in cargo handling, nor with the future shape of port operations,
as discussed below.
Organizaion of operations: marine operaions
21.  Vessels are cleared inwards by the Official VisitW, normally between 6am and 6pm, with
additional charges outside these hours. The use of ENP pilot and tug (or tugs) is compulsory for
vessels avor 300grt. Their use is not charged for separately and is included in the overall charge for
the use of the port. A launch service is provided privately. Clearance outwards is authorized by
Customs and the Port Captain, with an additional charge when this is done outside ncrmal hours.
yI   PorP Catan, Cudom AdMm or, Pod Hafth, Quadatin  banJm ton.



- 98 -
ANNEX 
Page 6 of 9
Organization of operations: cargo handlUg['
22.  Ship work (stevedoring) is done by the private sector. This includes both work on the ship and
associated work on shore such as the (onsolidation of LCLCI containers, the making up of pallets for
export cargo and the operation of specialized equipment for banana loading. Labor is hired by the
ships agents whose practice is to have permanent supervisory staff and to make up the ga igs from
casual labor. We understand that no formal system exists for the organization of this labor.
23.  Work on shore (porterage, or the movement of cargo so and from the ship's side, shed work
and the reception an.  delivery of cargo to iand transport) is done by ENP employees or by casual
labor hired by the ENP. Normal working hours for ENP labor are 7am to 4.30pm with a lunch
break of 30 minutes. These hours include two hours of compulsory overtime. Additional charges arc.
made for continuous or overtime work (Saturday afternoon, Sunday and night work). Relatively high
charges for dockage encourage the use of overtime, despite its approximately double cost.
Productivity figures fo; different categories of vessel are given in Table 8. The figures for dry bulks
are low, due to the lack of specialized equipment; also for timber, which is handled from rail wagon
to ship. Other figures, whilst not high, are in line with regional averages for the better ports. For
the purpose of this report a sample of ships analyzed for the container and Ro/Ro berth, giving
productivities as follows:
Ro/Ro: 16-18 moves per hour
Li/Lo using port crane: 12-17 moves per hour
Li/Lo using ship gear: 16-31 moves per hour
These figures, though naturally depending on the type of ship and on the total number of moves,
show room for improvement. The container terminal, apart from the equipment shortcomings referred
to above, also suffers from an outdated and inadequate manual control system, which will require
replacing by a modern electronic one.
24.  Tallying (checking) of cargo is done (for imports) at shipside then, on completion of the ship,
in the transit shed and finally on delivery to land transport. Tally is done by ship agent's personnel,
Customs and the ENP.
25.  Similar arrangements for cargo handling operations apply at the other ports with variations
whicL reflect their special conditions. At Tela, the shore work is done by a cooperative formed from
previous employees of the Tela Company, so that the role of the ENP is that of supervision and the
collection of charges. At Puerto Castilla, extensive use is made of hired equipment and drivers for
tht movement of containers to and from shipside. At San Lorenzo there is a substantial ENP
operational work force. At present low levels of traffic, demand for labor is necessarily irregular;
this, coupled with the collective agreement, may result in the labor force being without work all day;
then, if a ship docks at 5pm, it will have to pay overtime rates if it is to start work that night. Such
practices are not appropriate for a small port attempting to attract cargo.
1   'he desiption is of practices at Puerto Corts; wher practices at tba other ports difer, reference is nede below.
gi   LCL: Lmg than Contin eLoad: wher tcA container contains various consgnntns, with different ownes.



-99 -
ANNEX .S
Page 7 of 9
Through transport
26. Only one shipping line maintains an inland terminal at Tegucigalpa, so that containers can be
taken from the port for deconsolidation at a terminal nearer the destination of the goods. The
probtem here appears to be one of road transport costs rather than any impediment from Customs for
inland clearance, so tLat in most cases, consignees prefer to send their own transport to the port to
collect their goods, instead of collecting them from an inland terminal (and paying the cost of the
inland movement of the container).
Role of the private and public sectors in Puerto Cortes
27.  In Puerto Cortes, the role of the private sector in the provision of services within the port is
limited to the provision of stevedoring services, plus the provision of certain specialized services,
such as the launches. There are in addition a number of off-dock private container terminals within
the town. The private sector's participation in port investment or in the" provision of port equipment
is at present minimal. Equipment, shorehandling and most marine services are provided by the ENP,
as is practically all investment.
ENPs Financial Position
28.   Although ENP as a whole has constantly made operational surpluses (see ratios below), the
large investments in infrastructure made from 1966 onwards, has created a heavy debt burden in
recent years. Nevertheless, by keeping some port charges high, ENP has managed to continue
servicing its debts as well as supporting the weaker ports and the Free Zones. It also contributes 4%
of its revenues to the port cities for their development budgets. As may be seen from the figures, the
trend from 1989 onwards however, indicates a worsening of the financial situation. An important
factor in the growing working costs has been the relatively large proportion of administrative costs
which have continued to grow much faster than direct operational costs (see diagram below). Tables
9 and 10 present ENP's most recent revenue account and balance sheet.
29. ENP's Working and Operating Ratios for the last years were as follows:
1987      1988       1989       1990        1991
Working Ratio  (%)         54        53         55         60          64
|Operating Ratio (%j        71        70          70         73         78 1
Note: Working Ratio = Total operating expenses less depreciation/Operating Revenues
Operating Ratio = Total operating expenses (including depreciation)/Operating
Revenues



- 100-
Page 8 of 9
These operating ratios need to be viewed with serious reservation, as depreciation (which accounts for
the difference between the working and operpting ratios) has not been adjusted to reflect the
considerable recent devaluation of the Lempira. As depreciation does not therefore represent the up-
dated values of the use of the installations and equipment, it means that profits are considerably
overstated. In the balance sheet, because the equity value is understated, the apparent leverage (debt
of equity ratio) is also overstated.
30.   Even if one allows for the understated capital value, the ENPs balance sheet shows a fairly
precarious financial position. The enterprise has heavy capital obligations, with short term interest
payments accounting for about a third of the total annual operating revenue. Nor are the current ratios
d-sirable ones. This situation stems pardy from the considerable investments made by ENP in a
relatively short time-span to construct the country's port and Free Zone infrastructure.
Tariffs and Costs
31.   There is little relation between specific port costs for different operations and the charges for
such operations, as cargo-handling charges and wharfage have not been changed since 1982, whereas
costs have risen in the last ten years. Cbarges to ships however, became "dollarised" (and actually
collected in dollars at a rate of L 2.0 to the dollar) since November 1990. ENP has obtained special
dispensation to use its dollar reve_ es for its foreign exchange transactions e.g. the purc. ase of
equipment and spare parts and repayment of foreign loans. The remaining balance after such
transactions is sold to the Central Bank at the current exchange rate (L.5.40 to the dollar). The
Revenue Statements (which are in Lempiras) therefore show a very large income from the exchange
transaction, which ought really to be classified as revenue from ship services. Although this is not
immediately apparent from the financial statements, ship operators maintain that vessel charges in
Honduras are the highest in the Latin American region - which is confirmed by a comparison of
vessel disbursement accounts. (See example in Table 11).
32.  As ENP has an absolute monopoly, it can maintain its charges not only to reflect its total
operating costs, but also to cover any other obligations the government has thrust on it, like the 4%
of revenues (gross) for the municipalities and transfers to the government as requested and budgeted
from time to time e.g. a transfer of L. 10 million (about $ US 2 million) in 1991. The extent to
which excessive charges are effectively a barrier to trade has not been calculated, but there seems no
doubt that when the option of cheaper neighboring ports is realized (Barrios and Santo Tomas on the
Atlantic in Guatemala and Corinto or Acajutla 5 tLie Pacific in Nicaragua and El Salvador
respectively), traffic at the margin will be diverted to these ports.
Futue inancing
33.  The interest shown by the private sector in greater participation in ENPs activities could help
mobilize the capital required to help service the debt burden and improve the financial status of the
ports while at the same time rendering them more efficient, through a better use of existing assets -
which are currendy underutlized. By broadening its equity base through the participation of private
capital in some of ENP operations, which would require the setting up of subsidiary companies of



- 101 
mlweo public and private caphl, firther Indebtedness would be avoided and greater commitment to
the economic uilization of the easses would be created.
Free Zones
34.  'Me ENP has been responsible for the very successif developmet of thr Free Zone at Puerto
Cortes, which probably rprosn the scond largest private secter source of crployment in the
country, after the ban    Industry. After a some-lhat slow start, this zone ls now beginning to sihow
an appropriate return on the investments made. 'rne ENP has also been responsihle for the
development of similar though much smaller zones at Tela and La Ceiba. In add; >n it i. responsible
for the administration of similar zones at Choloma and Omoa. Tbe zcnes employ approximately
13,000 people and genert an es_atd  US$80 millions per year in sales. There is a measure under
active consideration to remove the zones from the ENP and to call for bids for them from the private
sector.
35.  It is important that a clear distnction be made between those free zones that are adjacent or in
dlose proximity to deep water, a is the case for the free Zone in Puerto Cortes, and those that are at
inland locations. Deep water sites are intrinsically scarce and should in principle be reserved for
those industries that hae need for them. Inland sites are not limited and a different and more passive
policy may be adopted to industries wishing to locate in them. In any caso, land adjacent to daep
water should not, aeept in specal c3rcumstances, be sold for private development but rather leased,
on terms which assure the optidmal use of such areas.



-102-
TABLE I
TRANSPORT SECTOR REmaBIL=AITON PROJECT
SWP CALLS  1 191AND 1990
SHIIP CALLS
PORT                                     1991                1990
NErto Cortes                             1195                1178
TAda                                      53                   51
La Coiba                                  10                   24
NPuTto Castilla                          187                  200
Sanl Lorenzo                   __93                           107
Totals                       |           1538                1560
Source: ENP



HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILffATION PROJECT
Trafi c by   Frn  of Presentation: 1980 - 1991 (All Ports)
IMPORTS                                                          (Thousand Tonsl
Type o1 Cargo      1980      1981     1982      19813    1984      1986     1986      1987     1908      1989     1990      1991
Liquid Bulk        692.2    614.9    528.1    623.1    702.8    817.7    592.9    672.1    778.0    852.0    788.4    829.6
Solid Bulk         191.9    118.5    118.0    157        168.0    151.8    190.0    217.6    224.1    270.7    297.0    454.3
General Cargo      581.4   5613.9    472.0    63'.7   802.3   659.6    683.6    699.4    749.3    839.7    707.3    747.6
Total qmports     1388.6   1146.3   1118.7   1316.3   1461.1   1329.3   1366.6   1589.0   1761.4   1962.4   1793.2   2031.7
EXPORTS
Type of Cargo      1980      1981     1982      1983     1984    e198       1988      1987     1988      1989     1990     1991
Uquid Bulk          73.6     80.7      61.2     76.4      78.9     82.1      82.7     72.0      69.5     63.4     44.0      19.2
Sogd Bulk          148.3    140.0    163.9    202.1    228.0    244.2    157.9    113.1    194.6    251.0    148.3    102.3
Spedal Cargo      12658.9   1181.2   1200.0    93'.8   1037.0   1137.7   1138.3   1294.9   1168.4   1132.1   1040.4   1007.0
General Cargo      259.8    270.7    274.6    28C.7    300.2    331.3    327.9    391.6    371.2    418.1    446.9    428.9
Total Exports     1738.4   1668.6   1689.6   1603.0   1844.1   1796.3   1706.8   1871.6   1793.6   1854.6   1879.6   1657.5
TOTAL IMPORTS    3108.9   2803.9   2808.3   2819.3   3106.2   3124.6   3073.3   3460.5   3646.0   3817.0   3472.7   3589.2
h EXPORTS       _
Source: ENP
INL
tn



ANANEX
-104 -                                  TABLE 3
HONnDllRAdS
TlRANiSPORT SECTOR REtAJBDLffATION I1Q=E:
PORT TRAMIC - 1991 and L990
lIPORTS                 EXPORTS                   TOTAL
_                     PORT  1991        1990         1991         199         1991        199C
Puerto Cortes              163          1546        1134         1270        2795         2816
Tela                        209           65          30           52         239          117
La Ceiba                      4            8           2            8           6           16
Puerto CastiUa              148          117         348          302         496          419
San Lorenzo                  39          59           42           44          *82         103
TOTALS               2031         1796         1557        1677        3589         3473
Source:  ENP



- 105 -
ANNEX 5
TABLE 4
Page 1 of 2
HONDURLAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR R.EHABIuTAT[ON PROJECT
Container and Ro/Ro Traffic - 1991
Pto. Cortes   Pto. Castilla    San Lorenzo          Totals
IMPORTS
CONTAINERS:
loaded                     15223           4815            303           20341
empt                       13689           8392              16          22097
cargo (tons)              201995          66066           3698          271759
TRAILERS:
loaded                      5444                                          5444
empty                       2754                                          2754
cargo (tons)               68484                                         68484
CHASSIS:
loaded                       218                                           218
er.pty                      2647                                          2647
cargo (tons)                2450                                          2450
Totals
loaded                     20885           4815            303           26003
empty                      19090           8392              16          27498
cargo (tons)              272929          66066           3698          342693
EXPORTS
CONTAINERS:
loaded                     24066          12415             186          36667
empty                       4736            312             221           5269
cargo (tons)              422616         230121            3117         655854
TRAILERS:
loaded                      6100                                          6100
empty                       1713                                          1713



-106-
Cortes     Castill       Loronzo              Totals
cargo (tons)              103173                                        103173
CHASSIS:
loaded                       173                                           173
empty                       2475                                          2475
cargo (tons)                3630                                          3630
TOTALS:
loaded                     30339          12415             186          42940
empty                       8924            312            221            9457
cargo (tons)              529419         230121           3117          762657
IMPORTS & EXPORTS
'_ONTAINERS:
loaded                     39289          17230            489           57008
empty                      18425           8704            237           27366
total                      57714          25934            726           84374
cargo (tons)              624611         296187           6815          927613
TRALERS:
loaded                     11544                                         11544
empty                       4467                                          4467
total                      16011                                         16011
cargo (tons)              171657                                        171657
CHASSIS:
loaded                       391                                           391
empty                       5122                                          5122
total                       5513                                          5513
cargo (tons)               21316                                         21316
TOTALS:
loaded                     51224          17230                          68454
empty                      28014           8704                          36718
total                      79238          25934             726         105898
cargo (tons)              802348         296187           6815         1105350



- 107-
ANNEXS
TABLE 5
HOND)URAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Shippirg Services
Puerto Cortes/Atlantic Coast
Line                                         Route
Ernpresa Naviera Santa (ENS)                              Miami
Crowley Caribbean Transport (CCT)            -            US Gulf
Great White Fleet                                         Wilmington/Savannah
Concorde Line                                             US East Coast/Gulf
Nexos Line                                                US East Coast/Gulf
SeaBoard Marine                                           Miari
Lineas Agrom                                              S. America
Sea-Land                                                  US Gulf
Carol                                                     Europe
Chiquita Brand                                            US
Matra                                                     Bay Islands
Texaco                                                    US Gulf
King Ocean Lines                                          US
San Lorenzo/Pacific Coast
Nippon Lines Systems                                      Japan
Mitsni OSK                                                Japan
CTE                                                       Spain
NYK                                                       Japan
K Line                                                    Japan
Yugoslav Plovba Piran                                     Europe
NedLloyd                                                  Regional
TMM                                                       Mexico
POL                                                       Europe
Source: ENP, Journal of Commerce



- 108 -                                 TABX C
IAflLE6
RiONDURAS
TRNSPORT SECT.R, REIABEITATION EROSECT
EPor Istalladons
(a) Berths
Port                   berth      lenght (m)    depth (m)          Use
Pnerto Cortes            1              24.40        12.80       Texaco
IA             61.0         12.00       uiquids
2             293.90        7.50       not in use
3              78.30        9.15        bananas
4             347.40        9.15        general
5             352.20        10.00   container & Ro/Ro
Tela                    1/2            222.50        10.00   bananas & liquids
La Ceiba                1/2            227.00        7.30        (general)
Puerto Castilla          1             150.00       10.0+       bananas &
general
San Lorenzo           1 and 2          300          28 feet      general
(b)   Sheds and Open Stora,e
j Sbds                                                      Ana M' 
Bodega No. 1                                                  4,267.+   1,764 also
Alero Bodega No. 1                                            2,226.53  _
Bodega No. 2                                                  2,225.00
Bodoga No. 3                                                  3,201.30                     |
Anexo Bodega No. 3 (cafe)                                      373.00
Botoga No. 4                                                  4,988.20
a) Bodega de Remate                                             338.70
b) Anexo 1' planta                                              421.70
c) Segunda planta                                               421.70
Galea mateialee poligrosos



-109-
a) Mercaderia general                                         172.30
b) Materiales peligrosos                                      261.20
Anexo Bodega No. 3                                            845.60
OPEN STORAGE
Patio No. 1/2                                              10,511.30
Patio No. 3 enfrente bodega no. 3                           3,524.10
Patio No. 4 enfrentc. Bodega Remote/Cobertizo               5,240.70
Patio No. 5 enfrente superintendencia                       5,299.30
Patio No. 6 costado norte Ed. Administrativo                3,400.70  _
Patio No. 7. oficina Ingenieria/Clinica                     5,193.90
Patio No. 8 enfrente Bodega No. 1                           4,586.56                     |
Patio No. 9 en el porton No. 7                              4,157.77
Patio No. 10 area de containers                            11,426.05
Patio No. 11 area ABC containers                           13,047.24
Patio Triangulo                                            83,485.00
TELA,
Shed                                                          518.00
LA CEIBA
Shed                                                         1,350.00  (general cargo)
PtJFRTO CASTTTJ,A                                                     (coastal cprpo)
Sheds                                                       6,000.00  atso tanks for
liquid storage
SAN LORENZO
Sheds                                                       8,500.00
Open Storage                                               46,000.00
source:EN



-110 -                              ANNEX S
TABLE 7
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Princigal Items of Port Equipment
Port                  Item                         Quantity       Capacity           Remarks
l ___________________                            _____________      (tons)
Puerto Cortes
Gantry crane                   1              45               Paceco
straddle carriers              4            30/40             2 in use
l  top lifter                   1             45
mobile cranes                  6            14-180
l__ forlift trucks                                    58            1.5-7
tractors                      25           various            8 being
chassis                       26                           commissioned
tugs                           2
pilot boat                     I
dredger                        1
launches                       3
Te.13_                                                
forklift truck                 1             1.5
La Ceiba
mobile crane                   1              5
forklift trucks                2             1.5
Puerto Castilla                                                 ;_._                                |
tractors                       2              5
forklift trucks
mobile crane
San Lorenzo
mobile cranes                  2            25/35
forklift trucks                12            2.5-7
_  toplifter                       1              40
tractors                       2



- 1 1 1 - ANNEX S
TABLE 7
Page 2 of 2
San Lorenzo           Item             Quantity            Capacity          Remarks
(continued)                                                (tons)
payloaders            2
tug                1                               uncertain age &
condition
launches             2                                   1 in use
Source ENP



-112 -                                ANSNEX 5
TABLE 8
HONDIJRAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Averafe Productivitv by Tvpe of Shin
(tons per ship-hour)            .
_______________________________             productivity
Type of Ship                   Based on Serviced Tume   Based on Total Tume in
Port
liquid bulk                            325                     273
dry bulk                                64                      45
wood                                    25                      16
general cargo                           36                      23
containers                              108                     86
Ro/Ro                                   117                     94
bananas:
conventional                            e3                      35
containedzed                           340                     318



- 113 -                                ANNEXS
TABLE 9
TRANSORT SE3CTOR ItE}IABILffATION PROSECT
ENP Balance Sheet to November 30. 1991
ASSETS                  LEMPIRAS        US$       AD1USTED
Current Assets:                         (thousands)  (thousands)   L.(thousands)
Cash and banks                             833          154              833
1/                                        9,641       4,821            26,031
Investments                               3,100         574             3,100
Debtors j/                               10,904       3,232            17,451
Stores                                   10,213       1,891            10,213
Advances paidi  3,641                                   674            3,641
Total Current Assets                     38,332      11,346           61,268
Collectibles                             34,555       6,399           34,555
Fixed Assets (Net) ZI                   173,939      89,760          484,701
Other Assets                             12,787       2,368            12,787
Total Asset                             259,613     109,873          593,312
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities:
Contractual Obligations                  27,602      12,575           67,904
Interest Payable                         22,078       7,772           41,968
Payment provision                         3,883         719            3,883
Total Current Liabilities                53,563      21,066           113,755
Creditors                                49,970      24,985           134,919
Other liabilities                        45,162       8,363           45,162
Total L.T. Liabilities                   95,132      33,348           180,081
Capital                                 110,918      55,459          299,479
TOTAL LIABILITES AND CAPITAL            259,613     109,873           593,315
RATIOS
Current Ratio (%):                          72           54               54
Acid Ratio (%):                             52           45               45
Debt/Equity:                              46/54       38/62             38/62
Return on adjusted net assets (S):         n.r.        13.51            13.51
Collection days:                            30



ANNEX-S
- 114 -                                TABLE ,
Page 2
Naoto:
X/   The cnveruion from Lempiras to US Dollars in column two, is at the original exchange rato of one
dollar for each 2 lempiras, where charges wero in dollars, whereas the reconversion into lempimas in
column three is at the current rat of L.5.40 to Us $1.
2     Assets have been revalued on the same principle, having originally been purchased at a rate of L. to the
dollar.



- 115-ANNEX5
Table t
HONDLRAS                                        Page I of 2
TRANSPORT SECTOR R.HABtJrrAT!ON PROJECr
ENP Revenue Accounts for 1991 (to November 30th. 1991)
REVENUES                           EXPENSES
Operational                       O-'ational
Port Dues                      11,847  Wages and Salaries    6,687
Pilotage                         303  Materials                849
Berthage                       6,024  Maintenance            3,781
Mdoring                          235  Benefits                 143
Cargo handling                 4,039  Travel                    11
Other Services                 2,232  Other                     16
Total Ship Services           24,680  Depreciation           4,463
Wharfage and hmndling         20,087  Subtotal              15,950
Storage                        2,843  Port Administration
Reception & deliveTy           2,637  Salares                13,848
Container filling, etc.        6,573  MateTials                355
Other services                  1,721  Maintence             2,658
Total srvices to cago          33,861  Benefits                270
Rcatal!3                               Tmvel                    147
Equipment                       1,584  Other                    98
Free Zone                       3,357  Depreciation           3,395
.Z services                      652  Subtotal              20,771
Total Rentals                   5,593  Central Administ.
Total Ops. Revenue             64,134  Salaries               9,714
Other Revenues                         Materials               387
Financial Exchange IV          25,877  Mainteance             1,383
Currncy Fluctuation             3,884  Benefits                 157
Iidemnities                      229  Tsavel                    535
Rantals                         1,146  Other                    223
Asset sales                      711  Depreciation              896
Donations received                 13  Subtotal              13,295
Otbems                            115  Fnancial Costs
Total Other Revenues           31,975  ItWe                   6,846



-116 -                           Table s
Page 2 of 2
From previous year.            (232)  Exchange rat losses     3,101
TOTAL REVENUES                95,877  Subtotal                9,947
TOTAL EXPENSES                70,659  Other Expnses            _
PROPFT                        2S,218  Donadons                  99
__ __ _ __ _ ___ _  T ansfers     2,302
Fiscal contribution   8,295
:         Subtotal              10,696
-  "  T   -  TOTAL EXPENSES    70,659
~I The result of oxchanging the balanco of dollars from ship services.



-117-                           ANNEXS
TABLE 11
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SE CTOR REHi1LffATION PROJIECT
Comparative Ship Chawrgs In Honduras and Guatenala
Estimate of expenss for a bulk grain vesd of 4,375 G.R.T. and 400.11ft discharging
4,263.24 metric tons of bulk wheat, exduding cargo handling
. ______________          (in US  DoUars)
P. Cortes    Sto. Tomas    Difference    %
do Castila    Monetary
Mooring                 100          56.88        43.12       76
Berthage              10,403      4,100.42      6,302.58     154
Dock cleaning           100          42.12        57.88      137
Iights                 1,050             .         1,050     100
Port dues              7,656        262.50       7,393.5   2,817
Surcharge               426         127.52       298.48      234
Pilot launch               -         23.09        -23.09    -100
'Towage                    -        1S3.13       -153.13    -100
VAT                        -        361.30        -361.3    -100
TaAL                  19,735       S126.96     14,608.04     285
Note: Iu Honduras port chages have to be paid in US Dollars, whereas in Guatemala, charges
are based on the Dollar at the current exchange rate, but are payable in Quotzales.
Source: Council of Ship Agents and Owners; Honduras, March 1992.



- 118-
ANNEXS
Attacbment
lPage l of 8
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Reforms of the Port Sector - lrst Phase
Terms of Reference
I.   Objectives
The consultant will work under the guidance of the IC, to which he will report administratively
and technically. Within the agreed preliminary program for the restructuring of the port
sector, he/she will work with the Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP) in the evaluation of the
program.
H.   Q calo,
The consultant should bave a wide experience of different port organizations and have played a
significant role in the definition and implementation of change in port organization and
especially in the sector of cargo handling operations.
M. Duralion
Approximately nine weeks.
IV.  Tasks to be Undertaken
He/she will evaluate the relative merits of the different schemes such as leasing, concessioning
or other forms of participation by the private sector in port areas and/or activities.
He/she will assess the financial impact of the proposed privatization schemes on ENP, the
relevant municipalities and on the Government's budget.
He/she will evaluate the economic costs and benefits for feasible privatization alternatives.
He/she will initiate the preparation, in discussion with the ENP, of a revised organizational
chart for that organization, in line with its proposed role.
He/she will prepare recommendations for the steps necessary to reach that new organizational
structure, including such training and retraining as may be necessary and identifying the
principal changes required in the regulatory framework.



- 119-
ANNEX S
Attahment
Page 2 of 8
He/she will identify the work to be carried out in the implementation phase by the consultants
that would work in the areas of concessions and leases, cargo handling equipment and
workshops, port structures and manpower planning.



- 120-
ANNEX S
Attaehment
Pasge 3 of 8
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Reforms of the Port Sector
Terms of Reference - Finandal An*s
Objectives
The consultant will work as a member of the technical assistance team. He/she will work on a
day-to-day basis with the Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP) in the analysis of the implications
of the Action Plan agreed during the first phase of the technical assistance for the income,
expenditure and profits of the ENP. Based on such analysis, he/she will prepare an outline
Fin&ncial Plan. This will define the impact on the ENP of the ENP of the policy of
concessions, coupled with the proposed reorganization and consequential reduction in ENP
staffing needs. The outline Financial Plan will be expressed in mdel form, so that the effect
of changes in levels of revenue from the concessions, in tariffs and in manpower policy, can be
assessed.
H1. QualUications
The consultant should have an accounting qualification, with specialization in financial
modelling. He/she should have experience of cost accountng and financial planning in a major
port authority.
m.  Duration
Approximately five weels in total. The tentative schedule for the work envisages:
fin Honduras: Two visits of two weels in a two month period.
horm office: one week, working with the Concessions and Leases specialist.
[V.  Tasks to be Undertake
The consultant will travel to Honduras about three months after the commencement of the
activities of the specialist in concessions and leases for the first visit. Subsequent dates will be
agreed between the consultant and the project coordinator, in light of the needs of the project.
The specialist will undertake the following tasks:
(1)  review the proposed Action Plan.



- 121 -
ANNEXS
Attachment
Pauge 4 of 8
(2) review the work of the technical assistance team already in place, in particular the
recommendations of the specialist on Concessions and Leases and the Manpower
Planning specialist, as summarized in the work of their past missions;
(3)   meet with ENP accounting staff, in order to understand the accounting practices of the
Authority. Based on these discussions, he/she should assess what needs to be done in
order to estimate income and costs on a cost center/functional activity basis, as necessary
for the analysis of the impact of the changes agreed in the Action Plan. An acceptable
margin of uncertainty shall be defined for such estimates;
(4) recommend the fbrmation of a working group within the ENP finance department in
order to undertake the necessary analyses, which will be done under the control of the
ENP Director of Finance, with technical advice from the specialist;
(5)   define the principal elements of a financial model which will permit the evaluation of
, cpiankes in the scope and in the timing of the Action Plan, in particular as it refers to
concessions, organizational/manpower changes and tariff cbanges;
(6) recommend a work program for the working group referred to in task (4), in order to
implement the proposed financial model, supervising the work of the group.
He/she will coordinate with ENP financial management on a daily basis, preparing memoranda
that will summarize actions recommended for the above tasks. On the completion of each visit
he/she will prepare a brief report summarizing his work, problems encountered and
recommendations for their resolution. Reports will be discussed with the project coordinator,
prior to their submission to the IC.



- 122 -
Attachment
Page 5 of 8
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Reforms of the Port Sector - Implementation Phase
Terms of Reference - Specialist in Concessions and Leases
I.   Objectives
The consultant will work as a member of the technical assistance team, reporting
administratively to the team coordinator. He/she will work in close coordination with the
Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP) on those aspects of the Action Plan concerned with the
transfer of port operations, equipment and services to the private sector by means of
concessions and licenses. Towards this objective he/she will prepare recommendations, on the
basis of his work, on the best definition, content and bidding arrangement for such concessions
and licenses, within an overall strategy that recognizes the need for the encouragement of a
competitive environment by means of a transparent bidding process. The recommendations
will be discussed prior to their finalization, with the team coordinator and with the IC.
Qualifications
The consultant should have extensive experience in the formulation and negotiation of
commercially based concessions and services in the port sector. He/she should have recent
high level managerial experience in a major port. He/she should preferably have language
capability in English and Spanish.
m.  Duration
The consultant will work for approximately 9 weeks, including three visits to Honduras a-ad
two weeks for the preparation and revision of documents at his/her home office.
IV.  Tasks to be undertaken
The consultant will travel to Honduras for an initial period of approximately three weeks
during which he/she will make a physical examination of the activities of the ports, in order to
prepare recommendations for the best classification of concessions and licenses into a small
number of groups. The general idea is to allocate the major berths/areas on the basis of
concessions through competitive bidding, leaving certain berths as public berths, with licensed
stevedores. The precise strategy will be defined during the mission.



- 123 -
ANNEX S
Attachweit
lWe 6of 8
For each group he/she wIll then prepare bidding documents suitable for public competitive
bidding based on the prequalification of suitable firms, with an objective evaluation process,
which is to be the subject of recommendation by the consultant. The documents will be
prepared in English.
He/she will travel to Honduras for a second visit in order to review with IC and ENP, the final
form of the draft documents, prior to their publication and to discuss and agree the procedures
to be employed for the prequalification of suitable bidders.
On his/her third visit, he will review with IC and ENP, the offers that have been received for
the initial bidding process, assisting in the process of evaluation, in accordance with the
procedures already agreed, incorporating any revision that are deemed necessary in the light of
experience.
His/her main task is the preparation of the draft bidding documents and the procedures to be
followed in the prequalification of the bidders and in the evaluation of the bids received.
He/she will also prepare a brief report after each visit, that will summarize his work, problems
encountered and solutions to those problems.



- 124-
ANNEX S
Attadbment
PMage 7 of 8
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Reforms of the Port Sector - Implementtion Phase
Terms of Reference - Port Structure Reabilitation Engineer
I.   Objectives
The consultant will work as a member of the technical assistance team, reporting
administratively to the team coordinator. He/she will work in close coordination with the civil
engineer of the Empresa Nacional ?ortuaria (ENP) in the identification of those repairs that are
necessary before a concession is granted for any port structure. In doing this, he/she will
prepare a report of the condition of each of the relevant structures that will serve as a basis for
its description in the contract documents to be developed for concessions and licenses.
Qualifications
A civil engineer with extensive experience in the inspection maintenance and rehabilitation of
existing port structures and in the preparation of development proposals. He/she should be
reasonably fluent in English and Spanish.
M.  Duration
Approximately 3 weeks.
IV.  Tasks to be undertaken
The consultant will travel to Honduras for a visit of approximately 3 weeks. He/she will
review existing technical reports of the condition of the structures to be included in concessions
and licenses.
He/she will make a physical above waterline examination of all structures that are to be the
subject of concessions and/or leases, assessing their structural integrity and the need for repairs
and/or rehabilitation. He/she will prepare a written report on each structure with appropriate
recommendations, working in close coordination with the concessions and licenses specialist.
On completion of his/her work he/she will prepare a brief report summarizing his work and
any difficulties encountered, with his/her recommendations.



- 125-
ANNEX 5
Attement
Page 8of 8
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABITATION PROJECT
Reforms of the Port Sector - Implementation Phase
Terms of Reference - Cargo-handling Equipment & Workshops Engineer
Objectives
The consultant will work as a member of the technical assistance team, reporting
administratively to the team coordinator. He/she will work in close coordination with the
Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP) in the classification of existing equipment that would be
suitable for leasing or sale and that for scrapping. In addition, he/she will prepare a plan for
the leasing of the workshops - or such other arrangement as appears appropriate - to the private
sector. The recommendations for the equipment and for the workshops will be made in the
context of the agreed policy for the transfer of port operations to the private sector, based on a
regime of concessions and licenses. Towards this end, he/she will work closely with the
specialist in concessions and licenses.
Qualitications
The consultant should be a mechanical engineer with both practical and managerial experience
in major ports. He/she should be reasonably fluent in English and Spanish.
H. Duration
Approximately 3 weeks.
IV.  Tasks to be undertaken
The consultant will travel to Honduras for an initial period of approximately 3 weeks.
He/she will inspect all mecbanical equipment, classifying it according to the above criteria.
For the equipment to be leased, the consultant will recommend suitable leasing arrangement.
He/she will inspect all workshops, assessing their suitability for leasing or for rental and
recommending a suitable form of contract and bidding process.
He 'ihe will inspect the container cranes and discuss with ENP engineers the general history of
these cranes and experience.



- 126-
ANNEXY 
Page 1 of 9
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABELITATION PROJECT
Techdical Assistance to the Aviation Subsector
Objectives.
1.        The technical assistance to the aviation subsector would be carried out in close
collaboration with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The main objective of this
technical assistance is to support the airports' organizational restructuring in order to increase their
efficiency and modernize their management. In particular, this technical assistance would be geared
towards the creation of autonomous airports in charge of services to air traffic and related
infrastructure and other airport services, that would earn and dispose according to their own budget
the revenues from aeronautical and non-aeronautical fees.
Definition of Responsibilities.
(a)   ICAO, in the context of the UNDP-financed project for the development of civil
aviation in Honduras, would be responsible, inter alia, for the provision of technical
assistance for (i) the definition of the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for
the subsector; (ii) the economic and financial reorganization of civil aviation and
airports; (iii) airport privatization; (iv) the improvement of management information
systems; and (v) the revision of the regulations related to air safety.
(b)    The IDA-financed technical assistance under the proposed project would finance
experts to co-manage the Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula Airports during a two-year
period, which is expected to be the amount of time necessary to complete the
transition towards the new organizational system. In addition to familiarize the
technical staff with modern management practices and operational procedures to be
developed by ICAO, this technical assistance will help to make more transparent the
costs of the different airport services and, thus, permit a better ass3ssment of the
value of future concessions to the private sector.
ICAO's Technical Assistance for the Reorganization of the Civil Aviation Subsector.
Terns of Reference
In agreement with the Government, the consultants will:
(a)    define a new scheme for the organization of civil aviation in Honduras, including the
relationship of the airports with the Central government and the Directorate General
of Civil Aviation (DGCA), separating the normative, regulatory and monitoring
functions from those that are eminently operational in executing air traffic services
and airport infrastructure operation and maintenance;



- 127-
ANNEX6
Page 2 of 9
(1)    define the organizational structure for the airports of Toncontin (Tegucigalpa), La
Mesa (San Pedro Sula), Goloson (La Ceiba) and Roatan (Roatan). Determine for
each airport the services, installations, equipment and material under their
responsibility;
(c)   incorporate into the airport responsibilities those functions now under SECOPT's
Directorate General of Road and Airport Maintenance (DGCCA) and the Directorate
General of Civil Works and Urbanism;
(d)    determine the staffing and training needs for each airport according to the assigned
functions, including international training;
(e)   recommend the most appropriate legal arrangements for the airportL and the
mechanisms for their implementation;
(f)   in light of the organizational and financial structure agreed with the Government, draft
a proposed revision to the Civil Aviation Law in ord-r to provide the adequate legal
framework taking into account the following requirements: (i) the airports to earn
revenues from services, air tickets, and other sources; (ii) the airports to administer
their own budget; and (iii) organizations having installations and/or providing services
in the airports would be subordinated to the airport authority;
(g)    carry out an evaluation of the expected income and expenditures of the airports of
Toncontin, La Mesa, Goloson and Roatan in order to assess f,uture privatization
arrangements;
(h)    develop the regulations for charging airports fees and earning through concessions and
establish the operational procedures to apply those regulations;
(i)    design an airport and "in-route" cost-accounting methodology in order to determine
the cost of each service;
(j)    design a methodology to monitor demand for each type of service in order to define
unit-costs and consequently, airport and "in-route" tariffs;
(k)    propose a billing and collection system for airport services;
(1)    evaluate the Government contributions, if any, that will be required by the airports in
the next five years; and
(m)   assess the convenience of transferring to COCESNA the equipment for navigational
aid, in exchange for a fee, or alternatively, to establish additional charges for the use
of air space below 20000 feet.



- 128 -
Page 3 of 9
Tecnical Asitance for the Improvement of Airport Administraffon
2.       Tbis technical assistance has as a main objective to provide support to airport managers,
on a co-managerial basis, in the operational and financial aspects of airport activities. The team of
experts will consist of a Team Leader, and two Operational Advisors. The Team Leader, in addition
to acting as the main advisor to the Directors of the airports of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, will
act as the financial advisor, with the responsibility of implementing ICAO systems for cost
accounting, billing, contracting, concessioning, tariffs, etc. The Operational Advisors, in close
cooperation with the Airports Operational Managers, would be responsible for the day-to-day
operation of the airports. The following paragraphs summarize the responsibilities of the consulting
team.
The Team Leader will serve as the principal advisor for the director of the Airports of
Tegucigalapa and San Pedro Sula. In this capacity he/she, in consultation with the Airport Director,
will be responsible for:
(a)  the overall operation of the airports and providing overall direction in accomplishment of the
mission of the airports;
(b)  seeing that all activity at the airports, whether by airlines, private sector, the public, or
personnel of the airports, is conducted in a safe, efficient and business-like manner;
(c) both airports' budgets, fiscal, personnel, data processing and management activities;
manag,ement of revenue producing contractual arrangements; acquisition of supplies and
materials; development of business and operational data and information;
(d) providing for the orderly amortization of the Government's investment, coupled with a
reasonable return on the capital investment in airport facilities; and
(e)  directly supervising his/her administrative staff and the Operations Managers of both airports.
PRINCIPAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
(a)  Directs all operations of the airports in a sound business manner. This involves:
(i)    participation in the establishment of overall business management policies and
philosophy of the airports;
(ii)   integration and coordination of business policies of the airports with operating
programs; approving basic programs and functions of various airport offices; and
providing program emphasis; and



- 129 -
ANNEX6
Page 4 of 9
(iii)   Continuously reviews and evaluates business operations to assure that there is a
balance between the best possible service to users of the airport, and a desirable
margin of profit.
(b)  Responsible for the development, negotiation and administration of lease agreements for
facilities and for the administration of private sector contracts;
(c)   Exercises control over facilities and resources of the airports through continuing analysis of
needs of the airlines and passengers;
(d)  On a timely basis, provides for the identification of airport improvement projects,
modification and expansion programs, and other requirements. Follows through on all such
programs, projects and studies as may be undertaken;
(e)   Provides an appropriate program for the effective and efficient management of personal and
real property assets of the airports; provides for the effective administration of fiscal programs
of the airports, recommending allocation of funds, staffing levels, airport organization and
related activities;
(f)   Provides for the effective utilization of space and property of the airports by airlines, the
private sector and the Government;
(g) Provides advice and assistance to the Government and is responsible for the development of
plans, standards, policies and procedures governing administrative, financial, operations,
engineering, maintenance, security, and customs functions at the airports;
(h)  Responsible for the overall maintenance, improvement, modernization, and expansion of
grounds, structures, utilities, and facilities at the airports to assure sustained operational
capbfilities of the airports. This involves executive direction of all activities connected with
housekeeping, building, repair, provision of heat, water, electricity, sewage service, etc.
Establishes policies and procedures in these areas and directs the Operations Managers in
planning and carrying out programs to assure that the airports remain operational and that
grounds, structures, utilities, and facilities are in good condition, remain in good condition,
and expand to meet the present and future needs;
(i)   Continuously evaluates all engineering and maintenance activities and directs changes as
necessary; and
U)   Maintains liaison with Government, municipal and other public officials, private sector, civic
organizations and others concemed with or interested in the airports. As required, may
represent the Government in dealing with these officials.



- 130 -
ANNE 
Prage 5 of 9
MANAGERIAL AND SUPERVISORY DUTIES
- Organizational Plailneg Establishes goals. Develops program plans and milestones.
Assigns priorities. Develops policies and procedures. Projects budget requirements and
allocates available resources.
-  Program Directon Comunicates organizational goals. Keeps operations managers and
other officials informed. Develops and establishes review and control systems including the
performance appraisal programs to assist in achieving goals and results. Reviews costs,
manages fiscal resources and maintains control over assigned resources and assets.
-  Human Resource Management Selects, assigns, develops and motivates employees.
Delegates and assigns work. Evaluates employee performance and administers human
resource management programs established by the Government.
-  Program Evaluation Reviews program quality and progress toward achieving goals and
program results on a periodic basis. T?akes corrective actions to maintain work progress on
schedule, improve employee performance and modify program goals or operations, as
appropriate.
REQUIE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABELIMES
-     Knowledge of the Government's management functions and procedures, and
supervisory principles to manage the operations of the airports, including the
supervision of subordinates.
-     Knowledge of airport management to plan and administer a program of customer-
oriented service to airlines and the public (including the monitoring of trends in air
traffic and recommending cost-effective mnethods of meeting airline needs).
-     Skill in developing effective working relationships with high level pNrsonnel from
industry and in Government as well as the traveling public; in fact, represent the
Government in contact with dignitaries from other countries; and, on occasion, visit
other airports outside Honduras, so as to be fully abreast at all times of the "state of
the art" in aviation with special reference to worldwide airline transportation and
facilities. The incumbent must be able to speak, read and write in both Spanish and
English.
-     Requires a bachelor's degree and 10 years of progressively responsible experience to
include senior management with administrative responsibilities in airport financial
management. A Commercial-Instrument Pilot's License or equivalent certification is
highly desirable, but not essential.



- 131 -
AWiNEX6
Page 6 of 9
SUPERVISION RECEIVED
Reports to the Director of Civil Aviation from whom incumbent receives broad policy
guidance only. The duties performed may, on occasion, require instant decision and
action without benefit of advice from higher authority. This position is otherwise
guided by the policies and requirements of the Government, the Department of Civil
Aviation and higher authority.
OPERATIONS MANAGER
(Technical Assistance)
POSITION SUMMARY
-     The incumbent serves as a principal assistant to the Airports Director in directing and
supervising all operational, safety, security, and maintenance activities at the airport.
He/she would be responsible for:
(a)   the continuous and full-time day-to-day operation of the airport including the safe and
efficient operation of the airfield, terminal building, hangars, and other supporting
activities;
(b)    overseeing airport expansion projects and coordinating maintenance activities with
airport tenants. This responsibility includes initiating, planning, directing, and
coordinating these various projects and activities on a day-to-day basis; and
(c)    He/she is directly responsible for the work performance of all subordinates' positions
at the airport.
PRINCIPAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITES
-     As Operations Matiager the incumbent serves as overall supervisor for subordinate
employees. In this capacity, he/she:
(a) provides overall direction to subordinates in accomplishment of the mission of the airport;
(b) makes decisions on work problems presented by subordinate employees;
(c) collaborates with subordinates to decide on, and/or coordinate work request from tenants;
(d) advises officials with broader and higher responsibilities on problems involving the
relationship of the work at the airport to broader programs, and its impact on such programs;



- 132-
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 9
(e) selects and evaluates key employees and acts as the deciding official for major adverse
employee actions (i.e., those which involve removals or suspensions and hears grievances and
serious employee complaints);
(f) sees that all activity at the airport, whether by airlines, private sector, the public, or personnel
of the airport, is conducted in a safe and efficient manner;
(g) establishes overall policy on such matters as aircraft handling operations beyond the air traffic
control system; aviation and industrial safety; security precautions; emergency readiness
planning, etc.
(h) directs the airport staff in carrying out policies, planning new approaches to operations and
safety; inspecting facilities, and work practices of airport tenants, etc.
(i) continuously reviews and evaluates all operations and safety activities to assure that the
airport's programs and approach to these programs are as advanced as possible. In doing so,
maintains records and assists with preparation of operating and capital improvement budgets;
j) maintains constant awareness of conditions, activities and changing requirements affecting
airport operations such as airport construction projects, vehicle/airline traffic, new aircraft
types and adverse flying weather at the airport;
(k) analyzes proposals affecting the airport and determines the cost/benefit of whein to close or
open runways and taxiways;
(I) responds to aircraft disaster scenes, takes operational control of the airport and coordinates
appropriate emergency actions;
(m) oversees compliance with airport rules and regulations, including airport emergency plans,
disaster exercises, vehicle inspectons, fueling/hazmat activities, wildlife/bird control and
airfield marking and lighting;
(n) oversees airport safety and security programs, including control of airport identification
badges and airfield drivers' permits, security inspections, and hosting of disaster and crisis
management exercises;
(o) determines when deviations from current cperational procedures are required for safety or
security;
(p) assists law enforcement and government agencies responsible for the security of important
dignitaries passing through the airport;
(q) as required, .- luates security threats to the airport, notifies appropriate officials, and
activates the appropriate security plan;



- 133 -
ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 9
(r) provides a customer-service quality-control program to assure passengers are serviced
properly at the airport, e.g., sufficient number of cabs, baggage conveyors in working order,
no hazardous conditions that might cause a fall or other acci ent;
(s) coordinates operational requirements and activities with the airlines and other airport tenants
regarding the interpretation of existing rules and regulations, letters of agreement, schedule
changes, etc.
(t) reports to the Airports Director on noncompliance of contractual terms by concessionaires and
tenants;
(u) conducts a continuous evaluation of the status and condition of all existing plant facilities and
capital equipment. In this connection, evaluates and accomplishes an overall review of
maintenance procedures for all airport installations, facilities, and activities;
(v) directs repair and maintenance programs for electrical and mechanical systems; runways and
taxiways; and roads, streets and grounds;
(w) supervises various workshops and estimates cost of labor, materials and equipment for
planned maintenance work and other repairs;
(x) in all matters for which the airport has functional responsibility, provides review for
compliance with established criteria and sound maintenance concepts to assure the eiimination
of built-in operating and m _ce problems;
(y) reviews and recommends for acceptnce or rejection, tenant requests, and requests of other
organizations for construction, installation, modification or alteration. Inspects for
compliance with approved plans and specifications;
(z) sssigned, substitutes for the Airports Director in that person's absence; represents the Airports
Director at meetings and conferences pertaining to the airport's operational, safety, security,
and maintenance concerns. Provides tours and briefings on the airport to approved
individuals and groups;
(z') performs other duties on own initiative. Regularly drives a passenger vehicle on the airfield
and to other nearby locations to coordinate airport matters;
MANAGER:AL AND SUPERVISORY DUTlES
-  Organzational Pla_ni    Establishes goals. Develops program plans and milestones.
Assigns priorities. Develops policies and procedures. Projects budget requiremenu and
allocates available resources.



-134-
ANNEX6
Page 9 of 9
- Program Dhrecton Communicates organizational goals. Keeps Airports Director and other
employees informed. Develops and establishes review and control systems including the
performance appraisal programs to assist in achieving goals and results. Reviews costs,
manages fiscal resources and maintains control over assigned resources and assets.
-  Human Resource Management Selects, assigns, develops and motivates employees.
Delegates and assigns work. Evaluates employee performance and administers human
resource management programs established by the Government.
-  Program Evaluation Reviews program quality and progress toward achieving goals and
program results on a periodic basis. Takes corrective actions to maintain work progress on
schedule, improve employee performance and modify program goals or operations, as
appropriate.
REQUIRED KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILlllES
-  Knowledge of the Government's management functions and procedures, and supervisory
principles to manage the operations of the airport, including the supervision of subordinates.
-  Knowledge of airport management to plan and administer a program of customer-oriented
service to airlines and the public (including the monitoring of trends in air traffic, addressing
passenger complaints, and recommending cost-effective methods of m  . ng airline needs).
-  Knowledge of the operation of airfield navigational facilities sufficient to evaluate the
significance of various problems associated with these facilities and their operational impact
on the airport.
-  Mastery of the requirements for airport safety and security to interpret, implement, and assure
compliance with all legal requirements. Oversees the preparation and maintains currency of
the airport's operations and maintenance manuals, security program, and directives related to
these manuals and program.
-  Skill in developing effective working relationship with personnel from the private sector and
in Government as well as the traveling public. The incumbent must be able to speak, read
and write in both Spanish and English.
-  Requires a bachelor's degree and five years of progressively responsible experience in airport
operations management. A Commercial-Instrument Pilot's License or equivalent certification
is highly desirable, but not essential.
SUPERVISON RECEIVED
- The inumbent reports directly to the Airports Director. Su,7ervision received is very broad
in nature and in the form of high level policy guidance. Incumbent has authority to make
final decisions in most areas of responsibility.



- 135 -
ANNEX 7
Pge l of 6
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILTATION PROJECr
THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR
PRESENT CONDMON OF THE HONDURAS NATIONAL RAILWAY
Component of the Railway Network
1.     The extension of the railway network in Honduras is 886 km. Out of it, 204 kn are currently
operated by Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Honduras (FNH) in the Valle de Sula region. Another portion
of the network, extending over 336 km in the same region, has been given in concession to a fruit
company (Tela Railroad Co., subsidiary of The United Fruit Co.). A l10 km railroad links the city of
Tela with Puerto La Ceiba. This section is also under FNH administration, but is currently out of
service. All these track segments have 42" gauge.
2.     The remaining 236 km extends from La Ceiba to the Rio Aguan valley, and are part of the
FNH's system. It is a 36" gauge railroad, and was formerly operated by the Standard Fruit Co. At
present this network is out of service due to a severe deterioration of its infrastructure and the lack of
railway transport demand. The following table summarizes the network sections, their gauges, the
operator and whether they are in service.
l            ~ Area  Legth    Gauge | Operator      Service
Valle de Sula     204 km      42"      FNH          Yes
Valle de Sula     336 km      42"  | TRR Co.        Yes
Tela - LaCeiba    110 km      42"      FNH          No
La Ceiba          236 km      36"      FNH          No
FNH:       Ferrocarril Nacional de Hondumn
mTR Co: Tela Railroad Company
Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras Activities
3.     The FNH transports freight and passengers, and also performs some additional activities,
particularly yard movements for the TRR Co. wagons in Puerto Cortes.



-136-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 o 6
4.     Freight. In the Valle de Sula section (the only one now in operation), bananas are the primary
commodity. Wood, wheat and empty containers are the additional important products. In the 1986/90 five
years period, the average volume transported was the following:
Product      Volume (000 tn)       %
Bananas                   150.1         45.0
Wood                       50.3         15.1 
Wheat                      40.5         12.2
Others                     92.3         27.2
Total          1          333.2        100.0
5.     The average disne is 63 km; 77.3 km for bananas and 51.9 km for the other products. Out
of a total of 21.1 million of tons-km for the 1986/90 five years period, bananas represent 11.6 millions
tn-km (55%) and the other products 9.5 (45%). Table 1 shows the evolution of the freight activity in the
last 10 years. La Ceiba section was operating under concession up to 1984, but it has not had traffic since
mid 1989. Table 1 clearly depicts the declining freight trends.
6.     Bananas are generally loaded in Higuerito and Guanchias, 15 km south of San Pedro Sula, and
unloaded at Puerto Cortes. Wheat is loaded in Puerto Cortds and transported to several mills in the San
Pedro Sula area. Wood is loaded in the San Pedro Sula area and unloaded in Puerto Cortes.
7.     Passegers. FNH is transporting 165.000 passengers yearly (average 1989/90). The mean
distance is 25 kn, which amounts to 4.1 millions pas-km a year. The passenger service consist of one
train from San Pedro Sula to Puerto Cortds every morning, returning in the afternoon. Passengers use
intermediate stations intensively. The railroad is very close to the paved highway connecting Puerto
Cortds with San Pedro Sula Cm which a good bus service exists) for most of its run. It is the lowest
income people who use the railway, becaue its fare is about half the fare of the bus.
8.     There are two ypes of passenger cars. The lowest quality service consist in box cars adapted,
with some wooden benches and without windows. The first class cars have windows and seats. There are
some rail cars for special services, transporting tourist groups from San Pedro Sula to Puerto Cort6s.
9.     A summary of the FNH total annual activity in 1989/90, measured in thousand trains-km, shows
the following:



- 137 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
o  Freight trains                   202.6
Bananas                    65.9
Others                    136.7
o  Passengers trains                 60.0
o  Yard movements                    67.0
o  Internal service trains           12.4
o  Special trains                     n
TOTAL TRAINS-KM                  343.8
Operational Organization
10.    Banana movements are the most important activity, and strongly influence the operational
organization. T1be fruit exporters, who are the main users of FNH, need to load the wagons in the
production area.and rapidly transport them to the port in order to coordinate the train and the ships
arrivals. 40' refrigerated containers on flat cars are widely used, as well as some box cars. The loaded
wagons are concentrated in the San Pedro Sula area, and the trains are dispatched to Puerto Cortes.
11.    Railway wagons should not stay in the port terminal more than 24 hours (in no case more than
48 hours) to avoid fruit deterioration. At port the containers are connected to the power system of the
terminal constructed by TRR Co. The main rail return freight is the transport of empty containers.
Plant Characteristfcs
12.    Power engines. In the Valle de Sula area FNH has 10 locomotives, 8 of which have 1050 HP,
one has 850 HP and one 350 HP. The locomotives have an average age of 27.5 years. Only six of them
are currently in use, three are used for freight trains, one for passenger trains, and two for yard
operations and are held as spare. The average utilization of the locomotives is 58.000 km/year, relatively
intensive for a short system. Maintenance works are carried on in the San Pedro Sula shop. It has very
modest facilities, and does not provided any programmed maintenance. There are no reliable records on
each locomotive nor available spare parts for routine maintenance.
13.    In La Ceiba sector there are 17 (36" gauge) locomotives, within the range of the 450 to 650 HP.
All of them are now out of service.
14.    Wagons and cars. At present there are 404 wagons in the Valle de Sula sector, with a capacity
close to 9500 tn. Out of them 172 are flat cars (for containers and wood), 133 are "rejillas" and 99 are
box cars. For passenger transportation, FNH has 7 cars and 3 motor cars. The average age of the fleet
(as it was in 1987) is presented in Table 2. The wagons and cars are maintained and eventally rebuilt
in La Laguna shop, close to Puerto Cortes, which is in an extremely bad condition. The frequent
derailments are because 40' containers, when fully loaded, are very heavy for the wagons, which cannot
turn correctly in the track curves.



- 138-
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 6
15.    In La Ceiba sector there are 90 flat cars, 265 "rejillas",1 20 tank wagons and 20 box cars, as
well as 12 passenger cars (all 36" gauge).
16.    Infrastructure. The track shows some very deteriorated segments in the Valle de Sula sector.
Maintenance is made mostly by hand, and is insufficient. In the La Ceiba sector the tracks are out of
service because of the damage produced by heavy rainfalls. In the Tela-La Ceiba corridor the track is
also out of service because of natural hazards, and it is very difficult to turn back to operations because
a lot of material has been plundered.
17.    Other systems. Although a systematic analysis could not be carried out, the other supporting
systems (signaling, comrmunications) show the same characteristics as the other plan components: very
old material, with a very weak maintenance.
Revenues and Expenditures
18.    Table 2 shows the evolution of revenues and expenditures in the 1986/1990 period. Investment
expenditures have been almost negligible in the period. In the Valle de Sula sector the operational deficit
depicts an increasing trend, mainly due to a continuous deterioration of the railway revenues. This is the
result of the reduction in the tons transported and the erosion of the freight rates. In La Ceiba sector the
trend is similar up to 1989, when operations stopped. In 1990 there were almost no operational revenue.
19.    'Other revenues" includes the compensations paid by the fruit companies to FNH for concession
agreements or refunds for track repairs. In La Ceiba sector, the agreement was such that the transfer
became null when operations stop.
20.    As a result of all these factors, the total deficit of FHN has been increasing at a growing rate.
In 1990 this deficit amounted Lps. 7.2 million (US$ M 1.35), which was financed through governmental
transfers and real estate sales.
21.    Table 3 shows FNH revenues by source in 1990, as well as the expenditures classified according
to the most important items. Table 4 has a more detailed analysis of the expenditures, according to the
railway functions. Personnel represents 54% of the total expenditures (which reflects some overstaffing),
and parts and repairs 15 % (showing the weak maintenance). General administration costs are considerably
high by any standards.
Legal Frame and Internal Organization
22.    Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Honduras was created by Decreto Ndmero 48, in 1958, as a para-
statal organization. Although it is an independent entity, FNH reports to SECOPT. The decree
emphasizes the public service characteristic of the railway, and defines the administrative organization,
financial sources, internal controls and other organizational matters.
I RqilaW wagon an vetilatd car, sitable for bana boxes trnportation.



- 139-
Page S of 6
23.    FNH is run by a Board, integrated by a representative of SECOPT (who is the President), and
others from the Ministry of Economics, Ministry of Finance, Central Bank, Planning Ministry, Chamber
of Commerce of San Pedro Sula and the railroad Union. The General Manager is also the board
secretary. The company is organized into two regional divisions, each of them with a complete set of
departments: operations and maintenance, personnel, administration and fiar^e. All marketing and
commercial functions are missing. In the Valle de Sula sector there is a custom ser;: e department, which
must be utilized by all governmental import and exports in the region.
24.    The total staff of the FNH includes 340 people in the Valle de Sula sector, 139 in La Ceiba
sector and 140 retired at whom the company must make monthly payments. The company's management
is not business oriented, and with few exceptions does not seem to have adequate training for running '
railway on a commercial basis.
Summary
25.    The current situation of the FNH can be summarized as follows:
i The extent of the railway system is 886 km, but only 204 km, at Valle de Sula, are
operated by FNH; 336 km are transferred in concession for operation to a fruit company
(Tela Railroad Co.) and the remaining 346 km, included within FNH's system, are out of
service due to a severe deterioration of its infrastructure and no rail transport demand.
The system operated by FNH transports 332,000 tn of freight pe. year (during years
1989/90) of which 45% corresponds to the transport of bananas. This transport generates
11.6 millions of tn-km (55%) and the remaining freight 2.5 millions (45%). The average
distance is 77.3 km for bananas and 51.9 km for other products. For a railway system
these are reduced traffic densities and short distances.
FNH also transports passengers. During 1989/90 it carried 165,000 passengers per year,
generating 4.1 millions of passenger-km with an average distance of only 25 km per
passenger. In addition, FNH provides yard services moving TRR Co.'s wagons in Puerto
Cort6s.
The transportation of bananas defines the operational organization. The fruit exporters,
who are the main users of FNH, need to load the wagons in the production area (approx.
70/80 km south of Puerto Cortes) and rapidly transport them to the port in order to
coordinate the train and the ships arrival. Railway wagons should not stay in the port
terminal more than 24 hours (in no case more than 48 hours) to avoid fruit deterioration.
The freight is transported in 40' refrigerated containers loaded in flat cars; while at the
port they are connected to the power system of the Terminal constructed by TRR Co. The
main rail return freight is the transport of empty containers. Other main products are wood
(exported) and wheat (imported).
FNH in the Valle de Sula area has 10 locomotives, 521 wagons, 16 passenger cars and
other equipment. The engines have an average age of 27.5 years, but only 6 of them are
currently in use, 3 are used for freight trains, I for passenger trains and 2 are on yard
operations and make the reserve. The average utilization of equipment is 58,000 km/year,



- 140-
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
relatively intensive for a short system. There is no programmed preventive maintenance
and the motive power is in poor condition. It must be pointed out that serious difficulties
arise with the wagons, with many derailments due to the transport of 40' containers on flat
cars not adequately prepared.
The track is also in bad shape and unsafe. Signals and communication systems are very
precarious. The repair shops have no adequate equipment and only make corrective
maintenance and repairs of the rolling stock.
The evolution of revenues and expenditures of FNH in the last 5 years shows an increasing
need of financial support. This is because of the following reasons:
* A complete sector (La Ceiba) has no revenues as it does not offer services any more,
but it kept until November 30, 1992, when all operational staff adhered to a voluitary
retirement program, a significant level of expenses to cover the payroll for 139
employees.
V Valle de Sula sector has been reducing its traffic level, and in 1990 was severely
affected because the freight rates have not been increased while devaluation reduced
the Lempira value by 165% since 1990.
"Other revenues" of La Ceiba sector were payments made by the Standard Fruit Co.
for each ton shipped carried, as a compensation for some repairs in La Tela-La Ceiba
rail done by FNH several years ago. As that section does not operate anymore, those
revenues have also been cut.
The significant deficit of 1990 was basically financed by the sale of real estate for 3.2
millions of Lps. and by Government support: 4 million Lps. It must be pointed out that
selling those lands made possible some additional repairs to the rolling stock, which are
included in the operational expenses of 1990.



- 141 -
ANNEX8
Page 1 of 6
HONDURAS
IMPLEMENTATION OF TRANSPORT PROJECTS
PAST BANK GROUP LENDING
1.01    Transport infrastructure in Honduras has significantly improved over the last four decades,
to a road network of highways and feeder roads that cover most of the country, and a port system that
more than satisfies the existing demand. Substantial institutional development also took place during
the period, with the strengthening of management capabilities in the roads and ports subsectors.
1.02   Those major infrastructure and institutional improvements were supported by eight highway
projects and three ports projects funded by the Bank group. Implementation of the eight highway
projects started in 1955, with the commencement of a Highway Maintenance Project, and ended in
1986 with the closing of the Eighth Highway Project. Port projects started in 1966 with the Puerto
Cortes project and ended in 1984 with the closing of the Third Port Project.
II. EXPERIENCE IN HIGHWAY PROJECTS
2.01    Bank involvement in the transport sector in Honduras started with Loan 135-HO for US$ 4.2
million approved in December 1955 for the Honduras Highway Maintenance Project. The main
objective of the project was the establishment and equipping of an effective highway maintenance
organization involving the reorganization of the Highway Department (Direcci6n General de
Caminos). To a great extent, the project resulted from the Bank's concern with the fact that
Honduras was embarking, with Bank support, in a substantial expansion of the main highway network
without having in place the necessary maintenance capability to ensure sustaLnability of the expected
beneflts. The project was successful in creating a more decentralized manance structure and
making inroads in the views of the Highway Department towards road maintenance.
2.02   In May 1958, the Bank approved the Highway Construction Project (Loan 195-HO; US$ 5.5
million) for the construction of a paved highway of 72 km from Bufalo to Puerto Cortes; the
construction of bridges and culverts on the Western Highway from Chemelecon to Santa Rosa de
Copan; pavement completion of the Southern Highway from Tegucigalpa to the Pan-American
Highway; preparation of final plans and specifications for the extension of the Western Highway
from Santa Rosa de Copan to the Salvadoran border. Overall, the project was successful in its main
objective of completing major sections of the road network.
2.03    The third commitment of the Bank Group came in 1961, with the approval of Credit 1-HO
for US$ 9.0 million for the Honduras Western Highway Extension and Supplementary Projects. The
project covered the construction of a 100 km unpaved highway from Santa Rosa de Copan to Nueva
Octepeque and the Salvadoran border, known as the Western Highway Extension; the continuation of



- 142 -
ANEX 
Page 2 of 6
the maintenance program for two years; a feeder road program for the Western Region; and a
planning survey of the highway system.
2.04    The civil work components under the project were completed successfully. The maintenance
program expanded previous efforts in road management to bridge maintenance and workshops
improvements. The results of the maintenance program improved with respect to that in the First
Highway Project, mainly because of an administration more sympathetic to road maintenance and
expatriate consultants. Finally, the highway survey, prepared by the Stanford Research Institute, was
instrumental in the preparation of subsequent highway projects.
2.05    The Bank Group financing of the Honduras North Road Project (Fourth Highway Project)
comprised a loan for US$ 6.0 million (Loan 400-HO) and a credit for US$ 3.5 million (Credit 71-
HO), both approved by the Board of Directors in February 1965. The objective of this project was
the construction of the principal central portion of the North Road, the backbone of the Honduras'
transport system, a 202 km two-lane highway linking Rio del Hombre and Potrerillos. Project
execution was delayed by changes in road alignment and unforeseen soil problems. The PCR
suggests that more frequent Bank supervision missions at the early stages of project implementation
would have shorten the decision periods and would have resulted in important cost savings.
Notwithstanding this qualifications, the project was extremely successful, generating traffic levels and
economic returns quite above appraisal expectations. Concerns for road maintenance were relegated
to covenants mainly related to budgetary allocations and axle load regulations. Although there was
progress in these areas, it was always below that envisaged at appraisal.
2.06   In May 1967 the Bank approved Loan 495-HO for US$ 8.6 million for the Honduras
Western Highway Paving Project (Fifth Highway Project). The project included improvements on the
Western Highway reconstructing 37 km between Chemelecon and La Entrada and paving 247 km
from Chemelecon to the Salvadoran border, and engineering studies for upgrading segments of the
main road network and expanding the feeder roads system. Again the Loan Agreement included
covenants obligating the Government to continue support for highway maintenance and participating
in the axle-load Central-American road user study. Furthermore, as part of the project, the Highway
Maintenance Department was established as and independent office of the Ministry of
Communications and Public Woiks. The project was completed successfully with only marginal cost
and time overruns.
2.07    The Sixth Highway Project was financed by Bank Loan 896-HO of May 1973, for US$ 18.8
million. The main objectives were the construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road, upgrading 80
km of feeder roads and increasing SECOPT's capabilities in the areas of transport planning and road
maintenance. Included in the Sixth Highway Project were feasibility and engineering studies for
feeder roads totalling about 300 km. As part of the institution-building aspects, technical assistance
was provided to three government agencies involved in transport planning (CONSUPLAN, and
SECOPT's General Directorate for Transport and the Sectoral Planning Office). The major
achievement was the preparation of a much needed transport law enacted in 1976 to implement
regulations for enforcement of vehicle weights and dimensions. In addition, this technical assistance
laid the ground work and provided the basic data needed to prepare a Highway Master Plan under the
follow-on project. Extensive training to field road maintenance staff was also provided under the
project.



- 143 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
2.08   In November 1976 the Bank approved loans 1341-HO and 1342-T-HO for a total of US$35
million for the Honduras Seventh Highway Project. The main objective of the project was the
reconstruction of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacainas road, and technical assistance for road planning and
maintenance. The latter included the preparation of a highway master plan, which identified
investment priorities financed under the Eighth Highway Project; continuation of the technical
assistance to increase the planning capacity of DGT and DOP; training to the Directorate General for
Roads (DGC) in the areas of laboratories' organization and equipment; the introduction of a system
for road maintenance and equipment management in a Pilot District; and a study to identify major
bottlenecks faced by the construction industry.
2.09    The civil works under the project were completed at a cost below appraisal estimates, which
allowed the inclusion under the project of access roads to the main corridor. Efforts to strengthen
transport planning capabilities, however, were considered less than satisfactory. The consultants
attributed poor results to lack of qualified staff, while the Borrower was of the idea that difficulties
were due to the provision of technical assistance to separate departments within SECOPT, instead of
focusing on a coordinated planning unit. The project also included funds for financing, with the
participation of the German Government, a pilot project to develop labor-based road construction
technologies. This element of the project was extremely successful and set the basis for a program
that continues to be a model for labor intensive road works. Implementation of a road maintenance
system in a pilot district was also satisfactorily completed. The expansion of the zYstem to the rest of
the country, however, was postponed because the consultants were required to prepare the Eighth
Highway Project.
2.10   In August 1980, a Loan 1901-HO for US$28 million was approved by the Bank for the
Honduras Eighth Highway Project. The loan was closed in June 1987 with an unused balance of
US$ 4.6 million which was cance'ed. The main objectives of the project were the improvement of
access roads to and from rural areas and the continuation of the institution-building aspects undertaken
under previous projects to strengthen highway administration and maintenance. The project included:
construction of 350 km of feeder roads within selected agricultural valleys; improvement of
approximately 115 km of secondary roads; purchase of maintenance and workshop equipment, and
spare parts; and technical assistance for implementing a maintenance management system for
scheduling and controlling maintenance activities.
2.11    The Eighth Highway Project was successful in facilitating access to and from rural areas.
Most of the sub-projects were completed on schedule and at cost below appraisal estimates. ERRs
were generally below those calculated at appraisal, mainly because of a slow down in the Honduran
economy. The technical assistance components continued to improve SECOPTI's capability for
planning and programming maintenance activities through the creation of a data system for network
conditions and the implementation of a countrywide road maintenance system. The system, however,
never became fully operational. Problems with the quality of field information were to be tackled in
a follow-on operation, but the project did not materialize because of the interruption and subsequent
change in focus of Bank lending to Honduras.



- 144-
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
m. EXPERIENCE IN PORTS PROJECTS
3.01   In 1966 the Bank approved the first loan for the port sub-sector, Honduras First Port
Project, Puerto Cortes, for US$ 4.8 million. Loan 463-HO was to be executed by the newly created
Empresa Nacional Portuaria. ENP was created in October 1965 to preside over the expansion of the
system. Previously, publicly-owned port facilities in Honduras were managed by the Directorate
General of Customs and Indirect Taxes under the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The Bank had
an important role in the creation and start-up operations of the autonomous ENP, helping to set up its
organization, management and financial structure.
3.02 The project financed the construction of two deepwater berths and supporting facilities in
Puerto Cortes, Honduras main port. Even before the successful completion of these facilities in 1970,
it was evident that traffic was growing at a much faster rate than forecasted, and that further
expansion would be needed. Therefore, ENP commissioned consultants to perform a feasibility study
for the future capacity increase. Also, ENP investigated the feasibility of a deepwater port on the
Pacific Coast. The recommendations of these studies helped define the main components of the
Second Port Project.
3.03    Ti June 1971, the Bank approved Loan 767-HO for US$ 6.0 million for the Honduras
Second Port Project. The main components were the improvement and expansion of port facilities at
Puerto Cortes and the replacement of lighterage operations at Amapala by new deepwater operations
at San Lorenzo on the Pacific Coast. The new facilities would provide better and faster services
through mechanized cargo handling equipment. The San Lorenzo Port was justified at appraisal on the
basis of optimistic projections of westward sugar and molasses exports. Before the new facilities
were completed, however, it was decided to start with a second phase expansion of the port, which
was financed under the Third Port Project.
3.04    The Puerto Cortes component was satisfactorily completed providing Puerto Cortes with a
modern container handling facility for meeting the growing volume of containerized roll-on/roll-off
traffic. On the other hand, start-up of works at San Lorenzo experienced delays of about three years.
The main reason for the delay was the Government's indecision towards whether investments should
proceed in San Lorenzo or in Amapala and, subsequently, the Honduran Congress concern with the
true strategic value of a deep water facility in the Gulf of Fonseca. Finally, works started in 1975
and were completed in 1979 with a cost overrun of about 264%. Because of insufficient funds, the
Bank approved a supplementary loan of US$ 3.0 million.
3.05    The institution-building aspects of the project were successful. ENP became a well run,
appropriately staffed, operationally efficient and relatively autonomous enterprise with responsibility
for all port facilities in Honduras.
3.06    The Honduras Third Port Project was made with Bank's loans 1395-T-HO and 1396-HO for
US$12 million and IDA credit 696-HO for US$ 5.5 million, both approved on April 1977. The
objctives of the project were: to construct a new port in Puerto Castilla, on the Northeast Atlantic
Coast, to handle exports of timber and agricultural products related to an ambitious agricultural and
industrial development scheme in the Olancho region; and to complete the second phase of Puerto San
Lorenzo. The technical assistance and consulting services component of the projeet consisted on: a



- 145-
ANNEX 8
Page S of 6
study to determine the optimal depth of the San Lorenzo access channel; the preparation of a manual
detailing container operation procedures and documentation for Puerto Cortes; training for ENP staff
in container operations at Puerto Cortes; and consulting services for design and construction
supervision.
3.07    Actual total project cost was US$ 47.7 million (59.9% overrun). Very serious contractual
difficulties arose at Puerto Castilla. The contractor suspended work because of alleged frustration and
late payments; the case was arbitrated in favor of the contractor. After work was suspended the
Government and the Bank agreed to a reduction in the scope of the harbor works at Puerto Castilla
from three berths to one berth. One of the reasons for this reduction, was the increase cf the scope
of work at San Lorenzo to include channel dredging at an extra cost of US$ 4.4 million. The trends
that begun at San Lorenzo under the Second Project were even more pronounced under the Third
Project. Traffic originally forecasted for San Lorenzo and Puerto Castilla had fallen far short of
appraisal expectations. Costs also were substantially above original estimates. The PCR
optimistically estimated ex-post economic rates of return (ERR) of 3% for San Lorenzo and 12% for
Puerto Castilla.
3.08    The technical assistance and the institution-building aspects were again completed
successfully. ENP's financial procedures were also improved under this project. However, the civil
works at San Lorenzo were clearly unjustified and traffic developments subsequent to the ex-post
evaluation showed that investments in Puerto Castdlla were premature.
CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
4.01    The Bank's participation has been instrumental in developing the transport system of
Honduras. In the highway sub-sector there was a logical and realistic sequence of project components
throughout the eight loans. The first piojects concentrated in the construction of major sections of
highways, and the development of a road maintenance capacity in the country. Then the emphasis
turned to secondary and feeder roads improving access to and from rural areas. At the same time,
the institution-building aspects were always taken into consideration with numerous technical
assistance programs. In the ports sub-sector, afler a very successful first project providing Puerto
Cortes with much needed modern facilities, the subsequent projects, over-dimensioned the port
infrastructure of the country, generaing premature and unappropriated investments. However, the
institutional aspects were accomplished successfully and ENP became a well run and relatively
autonomous enterprise.
4.02    The main lessons to be learned from the highway projects, as stated in the PCR's and
PPAR's are to: (i) develop mure realistic projections during appraisal, in order to avoid cost and
traffic miscalculations caused by erroneous economic development assumptions; (ii) exercise closer
supervision during execution, to increase the participation in the modifications that the borrower
might be planning at an early stage; (iii) increase emphasis on the institution-building aspects and
secure prior Government commitment; (iv) identify and implement appropriate technologies to best
utilize labor-intensive construction; and (v) realistically assess the difficulties of establishing efficient
road maintenance in countries lacking adequately trained staff.



- 146-
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
4.03    For the port sub-sector, the main lessons learned were: (i) to avoid the excessive reliance
on optimistic, target oriented planning forecasts for port traffic, that in the Third Port Project led to
premature and inappropriate investments; (ii) in projects with long gestation periods, the adequacy of
its size and scope should be monitored to adapt to changing circumstances; contracts should be
phased, when possible, to allow for such revisions; and, (iii) changes in the scope of a project which
substantially impact project cost and financing, should only be considered after the original physical
objectives are near completion and firm costs for those components underway can be assessed.
4.04    In retrospect, it is clear tiat the lessons contained in the PCRs and PPAR's for these projects
reflect the views of the time on the main sectoral issues. It is true that, in general, the highway
projects were very successful in developing the main road infrastructure of the country. Progress in
developing institutional capabilities for road planning and road maintenance, however, were always
described as below expectations. This was systematically attributed to the long-term character of
institutional development and the difficulties of implementing sophisticated systems in countries
lacking the necessary absorptive capacity. A fresher look at those problems, incorporating the lessons
learned in world-wide Bank Group operations, would point to lack of accountability and strong
political incentives to adopt inefficient schemes. This is more so when viewed in the context of the
overall "road maintenance problem" in the developing world.
4.05    The experiences derived from the three port projects are mixed. The Bank had an important
role in the development of ENP as an efficient organization presiding over the expansion of the port
system. The Bank also supported the much needed expansion and modernization of Puerto Cortes.
Participation in the construction of Puerto Castilla and Puerto San Lorenzo, however, proved to be
unwise. Investments in Puerto Castilla were part of a large and ambitious scheme to develop the
Olancho region. Rather fortuitously, it became evident that the projected demand was too optimistic
and the original project was revised to substantially reduce the port's capacity.
4.06    The opposite is true with Puerto San Lorenzo. The port was expected to be built in two
phases to support the export of sugar and molasses through the Pacific. Implementation of the second
phase started even before the completion of the first one. The PPAR for the Third Port Project
concluded that, at the time of the start of the second phase, there were already strong signals that the
projected exports were not going to materialize. There are two important lessons to be learned from
this experience: One refers to the high risks of the public sector to misallocate resources, due to lack
of accountability. A different public-private sector mix would have probably prevented wasteful
investments. The other lesson deals with the difficulties associated with uncertainties and demand
forecast. In the case of large, lumpy investments and in periods of low to moderate economic
growth, it could be less costly to wait for some signs of incipient congestion before initiating further
investments, than to risk long periods of overcapacity and deficitary operations.



- 147 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 5
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Staff Input for Project Launch and Mid-Course Review
1.   Given the project's comprehensive approach to sector reform, and the nature and scope of
sector investment proposed, extensive and close supervision would be required, especially during the
first two years of project implementation.
2.   A project launch workshop and yearly project review workshops will be organized, assisting
the staff of the implementing agencies develop a common understanding of the project's overall
development objectives, operational procedures, coordination needs and potential implementation
problems.
3.   The tentative supervision timetable and required Bank staffing is the following:
Project Launch Workshop. First Quarter 1993
Focus:                          reviewing and adjusting (as needed) implementation plan of
each executing agency (SECOPT, ENP and FNH), identifying
and planning required coordination among agencies, project
management, procurement, environmental assessment,
disbursement and auditing procedures and requirements.
Technical assistance and training programs and appraisal of the
1994 sector investment plan.
Duration:                       3-5 days.
Participating Bank Staff:       - Task Manager
- Imtaitutional Development Specialist
- Environment Specialist
- Port Specialist
- Airport Specialist
- Procurement Specialist
- Disbursement Specialist
- Highway Engineer
Time Required:                  9 staffweeks.



- 148 -
ANNEX9
Page 2 of S
Annual Project Implementation Review Workshop. No later than June 30, 1993, 1994 and 1996.
Focus:                           Project progress review, identification of implementation
problems and issues and planning for the upcoming year.
Duration:                        2-3 days.
Participating Bank Staff:        - Task Manager
- Institutional Development Specialist
- Enviromnent Specialist
- Port Specialist
- Auditing Specialist (year 1994)
- Highway Engineer
- Lawyer (1994)
Time Required:                   1994 - 8 sw/1995-6 sw/1996-8 sw
Mid-Term Implementation Review (Evaluation). No later than June 30, 1995
Focus:                           Project Performance, identification of areas in need of
adjustment.
Duration:                        5 days.
Particpating Bank Staff:         - Task Manager
- Institutional Development Specialist
- Environment Specialist
- Highway Engineer
Time Required:                   4 staffweeks.
4.   In sum, the Project Launch and Annual Project Implementation Review Workshops, and the
Mid-Term Evaluation would require a total of 34 staffweeks. In addition, two regular supervision
missions (one of one-week duration, and one of two weeks), e- -)rising the task manager and two
specialists, w ill be necessary. Thus, total field supervision woua amount to 82 staffweeks, and it is
reasonable to assume that office supervision will amount to an additional 40 weeks, for a total of 122
staff weeks during the life of the project, i.e. an average of 30.5 staffweeks per year.
5.   During the first two years of project implementation, r-pervision efforts will focus on
organization and team development with a view toward strengthening the PC's operational capacity.
The Project Launch worksLop will be followed by additional supervision input to familiarize selected
local staff with IDA's procurement, disbursement and auditing procedures and guidelines. It is
expected that IDA staff will assist SECOPT and the other executing agencies in prioritizing
investments as well as human resource allocation.



- 149-
ANNEX
Page 3 of S
Proposed Agenda for Annual and Mid-Term Implementation Reviews
6.   The annual project review-to be organized by the PC-will take place in June of each year,
beginning in 1993, with the participation of the PC, representatives of the executing agencies, and
IDA staff. Anmual reviews would focus on evaluations of progress against the implementation of the
Action Plans and would serve to update and revise as necessary the 1993-1996 Transport Sector
Investment Program and financing plans and to discuss issues of overall project management with
senior Government officials. The result of the annual review would be the clarification of the
following year's operating plan, identifying and agreeing on remedial actions required to address
problems of changing circumstances during implementation. Thus the annual review and planning
process will provide a tool for ongoing refinements in project strategies and plans, consistent with the
overall objectives of the project.
7.   The mid-term project review to be conducted no later than June 30, 199S would follow the
same format as the annual reviews but the analysis of project impact would be expanded. In addition,
the mid-term review will be result in a darified and agreed set of indicators for years 1996 through
project completion in 1997.
8.   A summary of the areas to be addressed in the annual and mid-term reviews is presented
below. Key indicators against which project performance would be measured, are presented in Table
1. Monitoring target dates for evaluating the progress in implementing the Government's Action
Plans are presented in Annex 1.
Sector-Wide Issues:
(a)   Sector Planng: Progress in the establishment of a functioning institutional framework
for the review of sector institutions and performance, the design and implementation of
an information network, and the provision of sector analyses, including environmental
concerns, relevant to program and policy decisions (Annex 1);
(b)  Reulator Framework: Progress in achieving a regulatory environment free of
unnecessary distortions, including the approval of a new transport law and the
elimination of urban transport subsidies that cannot be justified on equity grounds; and
(c)   Subsector Investment: Progress in implementing the Government's 1993-1996
Transport Sector Investment Plan and revision of the plan in view of progress achieved
in the previous year and possible changes in priority.
Road Subsector Issues:
(a) Progress in increasing SECOPT's accountability for road management through the
establishment of performance budgets (physical and financial targets for road
maitnance are included in Table 1);
(b)  Progress in continuing reduction of DGCCA staff Crable 1); and
(c) Progress in establishing a Bridge Management System (Annex 4).



- 150 -
ANNEX9
Page 4 of S
Port Subsector Issues:
(a)   Progress in decentralizing and privatizing port operations as we measured by reduction
of ENP's staff as operations are transferred to private companies (Table 1 and Annex 5).
Airport Subsector Issues:
(a) Progress in establishing an organizational structure to operate the airports on a
commercial basis (Annex 6).
Railway Subsector Issues:
(a) Progress in phasing out FNH operations measured against targets to reduce FNH's staff
(Annex 7).
TABLE 1- Key Performance Indicators
YEAR
TARGETS                        1993       1994       1995        1996
1. Expenditures in Road
Maintenance (US million)
- Periodic                        19.5       25.7       27.2        29.0
- Routine                         15.5       14.3        14.8       16.0
2. Percentage of the network
Maintained
- Paved
Routine                         100         100        100        100
Periodic                         70         80         90         100
- Gravetl
Routine                          20         50         70         100
Periodic                         10         30         45          60
- Unpaved
Routine                          10         25         35          50
Periodic                         10         25         35          50
3. DGCCA's staff                    2,200      1,700      1,700       1,700
4. ENP's stafty                     1,028       900        800         800
S. FNH's OperationaliL
Deficit (USS million)             0.75       0.50       0.25         0
I/ For a diwcsion of how the Governmaet is expwctd to achiove aff reductions in ENP and reductions in FNH's
opeational deficit, we reptvoly paragphs 1.44 and 1.52 of the main text of the SAR.



- 151 -
ANNEX9
Page 5 of 5
Project Management and Coordination:
(a)      PC performance: will be evaluated with major emphasis on its ability to coordinate
sector institutions to achieve the project's objectives. The composition of the PC will
be analyzed, in order to receive feedback from the executing agencies regarding the
coordinating unit's ability to adequately manage technical and administrative issues;
(b)      Procurement and disbursements: Technical ability, soundness of judgement, and
compliance with IDA guidelines will be assessed taking into account actual project
performance during the period under review. This analysis will indicate if there will be
a need to strengthen the specific areas under review. It will also serve the purpose of
discussing with the executing agencies IDA procedures and project objectives.



- 152 -
ANNEX 10
HONDUTRAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Wtmated Schedule of MDA Disbursemet
IDA       [                           Disbursement  C Cuulative    Balance
Fisl                                      Duing        Amount          of
Year                Quare                Quartr       Disbursed      Credit
65.0
1993       June 30, 1993                  5.71'          5.7          59.3
1994       September 30, 1993              2.4           8.1          56.9
December 31, 1993              2.5           10.6         54.4
March 31, 1994                 4.2           14.8         50.2
June 30, 1994                  4.2           19.0         46.0
1995       September 30, 1994              6.9          25.9          39.1
December 31, 1994              4.9           30.8         34.2
March 31, 1995                 4.9           35.7         29.3
June 30, 1995                  4.9           40.6         24.4
1996       September 30, 1995              4.7          45.3          19.7
December 31, 1995              3.3           48.6         16.4
March 31, 1996                 3.3           51.9         13.1
June 30, 1996                  3.3           55.2         9.8
1997       September, 1996                 3.3          58.5          6.5
December 31, 1996              2.9           61.4         3.6
June 30, 1997                  2.4           63.8          1.2
December 30, 1997              1.2           65.0         0.0
I/   Corraponde to te iil depoit in the Special Amount plu reooactive finning of up to US$1.7 miion
which would be provided for elgible  xpeitu  iurd after July 31, 1992.



- 153 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluadon
1.   About 90% of the projects being considered for the 1993-1996 Transport Sector Investment
Program have feasibility studies either recently carried out or updated. The analysis of works in the
road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance component was based on a detailed inventory of the
existing paved roads and the results obtained from the application of the HDM III. About 259 links
totalling 5,546 km were evaluated, of which 2,400 km were identified for rehabilitation including
those to be financed under the project. Because of lack of timely maintenance, these roads are
entering the critical period when deterioration accelerates. The maintenance policies used in the
analyses were developed in collaboration with DGC and DGCCA and the unit costs of maintenance
operations used are reasonable for the region. Traffic volumes and compositions are based on actual
counts supplemented with origin/destination data. For each link, life-cycle costs were simulated,
based upon initial surface conditions (e.g., roughness and area cracked, number of years since last
periodic intervention, etc.), horizontal and vertical geometric characteristics, the road maintenance
policy in force and the volume and composition of traffic using the link. Thus, for each link, the
maintenance policy alternative yielding the l1-ast cost to society (minimum cost to the road authority
and the user) was identified. Tradeable goods were valued at their border prices. The opportunity
cost of unskilled labor was conservatively estimated as 80% of the market wage. The EER for these
works range from 12% to above 50%.
2.   During the first year of the proposed project, IDA would finance the rehabiitaiton of the
Choluteca-Guasaule and the Tela-Ceiba roads, both with an estimate ERR of 21 %. Tables 1 and
Graphs 1 to 2 present, respectively, the cost-benefit streams for the proposed works, the changes in
roughness (and therefore in vehicle operating costs) derived from the application of the selected
maintenance policy, and the sensitivity analysis. The estimated ERRs are robust, since a 20%
increase in the investment costs together with a 20% reduction in the benefits still yields an EER of
about 14%.
3.   In the case of feeder roads, the economic justification was based on the evaluation of the entire
network (8,619 km), and more than 1,500 km were identified for rehabilitation or periodic
maintenance, with ERRs also ranging from 12% to above 50%. The analysis of these roads was
based on the producer surplus method, for which the value of the additional agricultural production
attributed to the reduction in transport costs was quantified. Under the current investment financing
constraints, however, not all feeder road projects with a positive net present value that also meet the
agreed technical and environmental criteria can be executed. The final selection was made on the
basis of the export corridor concept, selecting groups of roads feeding the main traffic arteries.
Supporting studies for the road works in the Program would be entered in the Project File.



- 154-
ANNEX11
Page 2 of 2
4.   The project also includes IDA financing of rehabilitation works in the La Mesa Airport (San
Pedro Sula). La Mesa is the primary international airport in Honduras and services both civilian and
military aircraft including Boeing 727's, Boeing 737's, and Lockheed C-13's. It has approxiBately
265,000 square meters of air-side pavements consisting of a 2,734 meter long by 45 meter wide
runway, a near full length parallel taxiway, five connecting taxiway, a military apron, and a
commercial apron. The approximate age of the pavements is about 20 years, with a number of
asphaltic concrete overlays having been put down in the last ten years. Much of the existing
pavement is presently in poor condition as a result of age, traffic, inadequate drainage, poor native
subgrade conditions, and inconsistent original construction. Both medium and heavy load traffic is
presently being restricted at La Mesa Airport. Extensive rehabilitation works are proposed to upgrade
the existing pavements to handle the increasing traffic at the airport (in terms of both volume and axle
loadings). Two possible alternatives were considered for the rehabilitation of the runway: one was to
completely remove all failed pavements at La Mesa Airport and to reconstruct the pavement using
new sand subbase, gravel base, and asphaltic concrete (AC) surface courses; the other was to carry
out the upgrading using Portland Cement Concrete (PCC) rigid pavement design, constructed where
practical over the existing pavement structure. The latter was selected for the following main
reasons: (i) the runway complex at La Mesa Airport must be kept in operation during upgrading.
The use of overlay PCC construction will not only reduce the time of construction, but will allow for
extensive phasing of the work items; and (ii) the subgrade at La Mesa Airport is weak and susceptible
to disturbance due to construction traffic and inclement weather (rain, etc). Procedures which do not
expose the subgrade would be preferred.
5.   The economic evaluation of the proposed investments to rehabilitate the runway in the San
Pedro Sula Airport is based on benefits accruing to air transport users due to: (i) reduction of
airplane costs for national and international traffic derived from improved runway and taxiway
surfaces; and (ii) savings due to improved operating costs in the "with" project case. Costs are based
on final enginering studies carried out by the US Corps of Engineers in 1989 and updated in early
1992 by a local consulting firm. Traffic growth was estimated at 6% per year for the 1995-1996
period and 4% per year thereafter. The proposed investment has an estimated EER of 20%.
Supporting studies would be entered in the Project File.



AMNEX 11
Table 1
- ISS -
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Choluteca-Guasaule -Economic Evaluation
Cost-Benefit Streams
SAVING6 IN                   SAVINGS IN
INCREASE IN  INCREASE IN   EXISTIN6          GENERATED    EXISTING        GENERATED                                     TOTAL
VEHICLE       VEHICLE        VEHICLE       VEHICLE          NET           TOTAL        FOREIGN
RQAO CAPITAL ROAD RECURf   OPERATING    OPERATINS   TRAVEL TIME  TRAVEL TINE   EXO6ENOUS    ECONOMIC                  EXCHANGE
CoSs          COSTS          COSTS        BENEFITS                                                  BENEFITS
YEAR       (1)            (2)            (3)            (41           (iJ            (6)           (7)  (I8-I-2+3+4+5+6+7)   (9)
- ----------------        ---------------------------------------          ----- ------   ------ --
1993      3.7859          .000           .000           .000          .000           .000          .000        -3.709         -2.a42
1994      2,526           .000           .000           .000          .000           .000          .0Q0        -2.526
1995       .000          -.043         1.083            .000          .025           .000          .000          1.131          .763
1996       .000          -.043         1.246           .000           .0i2          .000           .000          I. 2A .1     W)
1997       .000          -.043          1.430           .000          .040           .000          .000          1.513         1.010
1998       .000          -.043          1.620          '.000          .049           .000          .000          1.713         1.147
1999      1.056          -.043          1.822           .000          .059           .000          .000           .869           .514
2000       .000          -.043         2.041            .000          .071           .000          .000          2.!55         1.451
2001       .000          -.043          2.263           .000          .083           .000          .000          2.389         1.614
2002       .000          -.Q43          2.5!7           .000          .098           .000          .000          2.657         1.861
2003    -4.618            .029          2.807           .000          .115           .000          .000          7.511         5.540
2004       .000           .029         -.311            .000         -.004           .000          .000          -. 343        -.224
2005       .010           .029          -.3713          .000         -.004           .000          .000          -.i5S         -.233
2006       .000           .02q         -.37             .000         -.005           .000          .000          -.405         -.266
2007    -1.895            .029          -.439           .000         -.007           .000           .000i        1.420          1.108
TO,,AL BENEFITS-COSTS - UNOISCOUNTEO:
ECONOMIC:        .858          -.200        15.387            .000          .552           .000          .000        15.261
FOREIGN:        .523          -.13Z        10.769            .000          .000           .000          .000                       10.369
ECO.NOMIC BENEFITS DISCOUNTED AT:
.0 I       .858          -.200        15.387            .000          .552           .000          .000         !5.291        10.369
12.0 Z      4.705          -.153          7.804           .000           .259          .000           .000         3.511          2.038



ANEX 11
-156 -                                    Graph 1
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Choluteca-Guasaule Road - Economic Evaluation
ROUGHNESS CHANGES
ROUGHNESS IN0EX
12
10
1993    1995    1997    1999    2001    2003    2005    2007
-WITHOUT PROJECT -*WITH PROJECT
ECONOMIC COSTS
US$ MILLIONS
10 
ol
1993    1995    1997    1999    2001    2003    2005    2007
+WITHOUT PROJECT *WITH PROJECT



-1IS7-                                    A~NDEX11
Graph 2
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Choluteca-Guasaule Road - Economic Evaluation
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
US$ MILLIONS 11993-2007, DISCOUNT RATE- 12%)
6.74
6~~~
4
2
CASE   NORiAL          NORMAL COSTS,o COSTS-20% C 30
COSTS                            V0%        BENEFITSVPNIVOC 2O%
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Wi IRR
3.
30                                                uze
20
10
0
NORMAL       COUST20%      CO-TS.2%      ;OSBS-30%
VOC 20$



1ANEX 11
Table 2
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REEIABILIT;'TION PROJECT
Tda-Celba - Economic Evaluation
Cost-Benefit Slreams
SAYINGS IN                  SAVIN6S IN
INCREASE IN  ICREASE IN   EXISTINr          6ENERATED    EXISTING        eENERATED                                    TOTAL
YEHICLE       VEHICLE       VEHICLE        VEHICLE         NET           tOTAL        FOREIGN
MOAD CAPITAL ROAD RECURR   OPERATING    OPERATINe   TRAVEL TIME  TRAVEL TIME   EXOGENOUS    ECGNOMIC                EXCHANGE
COSTS         coSTs         COSTS       BENEFITS         COSTS       BENEFITS       BENEFITS      BENEFITS      BENEFITS
YEAF.      (1!           (2!           (Si            (4J           (5i            (6            (7   (8-1-2+3+4+5+6+'J   (91
1993     6.302          -.06?          .000           .000          .000           .000          .000        -6.2.6        -4.661
1994       .000         -.0289         .421           .000          .005           .000          .000           .515          .3 33
1995       .'1)0       -.091          .527           .000          .007           .000          .000           .625          .404
1996       .000         -.046          .678           .000          .010           .000          .000           .735          .47o
19'       .000         -.046           .845          .000          .014           .000          .000           .906          .5E8
1998       .596         -.046         1.026           ,000          .020           .000          IQ00           .496          ,272
1Q        .0100        -.046         1.208           ,000          .026           .00(         .A00         1.280           .835
2000Q   4.444           -.091         1.'66           .000          .032           .000          .000        -2,95         -25   19
2P1C       .0C0         -.091.        3.756           .000          .073           .0O0          ;0OQ         3.920          :.
2002t      .000         -.091         1.27q           .000          .092           .000          .000         4.461          2.908
20Q3       .596         -.091         4.857           .000          .113           .000          .000         4.466          2.867
2004       .000         -.091         5.50          .000          .;39           .000          .000         5.741         '.759
2005      -2           -.067         6.259           .000          .170           .000          .000         7.457          5.066
2006       .000         -.067         4.591           .000          .132           .000          .000         4.79!    .      .15t
2QC7    -1.042          -.067         5.370           .000          .163           .000          .000         6.602          4.44k
TOTAL BENE;'TS-COSTS - UNOISCOUNTED:
ECON0KIC;      .934        -1.099         40.654          .000           .797          .000           .000        32.905
FOREIGN:      7.692         -.720         27.246          .000           .000          .000           .000                      20.274
ECONOMIC SENEI-S DISCOUNTED AT:
.0 t     9.934         -1.089        10.654           .000          .591           (TOO          .000        32.805        20.274
.2.;.1      G.i83         -.544        13.585           .000           .3i1          .000           .000         6.05E         3.032



-159 -                            ANNEX 11
Graph 3
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tela-Ceiba - Economic Evaluation
ROUGHNESS CHANGES SECTIONS I - 11
ROUGHNESS INDEX
10
133      low95    1997     lb"      2001     2003      2Q5      2007
_    ECTION I  oECTIO i  *I SECTI0N 11  NSCTION 11
W-O PROJICT   WITH P1041CC  WNO0 POJECT + WITHW PIOJZC
ECONOMIC COSTS IINCLUDING BRIDGES)
US$ MILLIONS
30 
20
1993     1995     1997     1999     2001     2003      2005     2007
+WITHOUT PROJECT *WITH PROJECT



- 160 -                               AANNEX 1t
Graph 4
HONDURAS
TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tela-Ceiba - Economic Evaluation
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
US* MILLIONS (1993-2007, DISCOUNT RATE= 12%1
12
10
10
8                                                  7.8
j12
4
2                               *. 6              .i
BASE    NORMAL            NORMAL  COSTS+20% COSTS 20% COSTS 30S
VOC-20%
COSTS                                             BENEFITS IVPNI
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
% IRR
35.
30
27.2
25                    ....... 24.7
259
20
10
5
0-
NORMAL        COSTS+20%        COSTS-201A      COSTS-30%
VOC.20%



MAP SECTION



IBRO 2422
B   E  L I Z E                                                                                            DA                ruA                                                                                                          L,IRA
I )  EO^I> 7 '    S   E                                                                             bAERITD      I RELIZE
pg9-   t   t_."   EUeR10 COL'IeS   v                                            PUER10 CR1I 45l CARDe
U A    B MA  L A                                 |                |                      A
/        -.    S A T a A        POTILL NDLAN EANDE0
_~~~~~~,,AUL                                              9                                 p c                                                                                                                       G R A CA S                       EVOt 
CORD  (MANA~~~~~~~~~~~UAIR(
SAN    L PARAIDO      IA  Epoo                   RE CDARE                                        ---          RS          -                        '                                                                                                                               
_xJ NICOADtlk ANRAN DCAeS ARL                                                                                        i NTASOTSCO
C  I  LA ADA   DILCA          CACACARNAS                                                                                                  -.~~~~~~~~~~~CEI,IMI
DSE~ ~ ~~~/  SDEC9E                            <       9       T     '       '
EA LCA          NRA ROVAN      D            'RITALvLLE gSNSDOle]UCS                                                          o                          5   E                                                           IUIDU  UFCDRA
N    [IA~ZAy  owocu,< g?w>Cso \ C  H  0AI                   DAN RAN
OEl~~~~~~ oE                                  t j-                                                                                       SEETOROT
'-N' 'A.CA'.
.F-                N C    C OCA -          -EEN '                                      /a FN CO                                                                                50ANTNOL  DAN C1N0NC  -.                 ITEN.INS   SUN.s
- C3-                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H O N D U R A S *3-                                            ,.. *,, C S"
A           DE IL07~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'+.RRIDY
UC GAl  A AIT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AASSRA55 S
TRNSORTN SECTORC'A
E   L  S   A   L  V   A   D   0    R  WAS    I  DE COW                                                                                                                        BITU41"011 IURIACED IIIID~~____ ___ ___ ___   Sf AASANASA Lg
IA'   Rh.                                                                                                                                     OLE. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IWERHS-CDOA-



