                                  Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                   Report No.: 29117




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                                  HONDURAS


             TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
                               (CREDIT 2458-HO)



                                  May 27,2004




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Lempira (L/.)

Currency Unit      = (October 1992)
L1.0               =   US$0.185
US$ 1.0            =   5.40 Lempiras

(December 2002)
L1.o               =   US$O.O63
US$ 1.0            =   15.88 Lempiras


Abbreviations and Acronyms

ICR              Implementation Completion Report
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
DGC              Direccion General de Carreteras (Directorate General for Roads)
DGAC             Direccion General de Aeronautica Civil (Directorate General for Civil Aviation)
DGOP             Direccion General de Obras Publicas (Directorate General for Public Works)
DGPS             Direccion General de Planificacion Sectoral (Directorate General for Sector
                 Planning)
DGT              Direccion General de Transporte (Directorate General for Transport)
ENP              Empresa Nacional Portuaria (National Port Company)
FNH              Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras (Honduran National Railways)
Fondo Vial       Road Fund
GOH              Government of Honduras
HDM              Highway Design Model
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
PMU              Project Management Unit
SECOPT           Secretariat de Obras Publicas, Comunicaciones y Transporte (Secretariat of
                 Communications, Public Works, and Transport)
SOPTRAVI         Secretaria de Obras Publicas, Transporte y Vivienda (Ministry of Public Works,
                 Transport and Housing)
TSRP             Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project
UPEG             Unidad de Planificacion y Evaluacion de Gestion (Planning and Management
                 Evaluation Unit
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
TA               Technical assistance

Fiscal Year

Government:      January 1-December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                  :  Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department               :  Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                  :  Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             :  Mr. Antti Talvitie

                                                              i


  OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations Evaluation Departmentassesses the programsand activities of the World Bank for two
purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Banks self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is
producingthe expected results,and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operationsfor assessment,preference is given to those that are
innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                     111



Contents

Principal Ratings         ................................................................................................................    v

Key Staff Responsible .........................................................................................................

Preface  ...............................................................................................................................     vii

Summary     ..............................................................................................................................   ix

1. Introduction and Background                          ....................................................................................  1

2. Preparation and Objectives                       ........................................................................................  2

3. Implementation and Results                        .......................................................................................  4

4. Ratings     ........................................................................................................................      11

5. Conclusions and Lessons Learned                            ............................................................................   12

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet                  ..............................................................................................    15

Annex B. Borrower Comments                        .......................................................................................    17




This report was prepared by Antti Talvitie, who assessed the project in June 2002. The report was edited by
Mr. William Hurlburt, and Ms. Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.


                                                     V



 Principa1Ratings

 Outcome                             Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Satisfactory

 Sustainability                          Likely                  Likely                      Likely

 Institutional Development            Substantial              Substantial                 Substantial

 Bank Performance                    Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Satisfactory

 Borrower Performance                Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Satisfactory



 *The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
 the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate Operations Evaluation Department (OED) product that seeks
 to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



 Key Staff Responsible

                                    Task Manager            Division Chief/            Country Director
____      __   - -- - __       __ - - - - - -               Sector Manager
 Appraisal                          Mirtha Pokorny             R Halperin                  E Segura
 Midterm                           Guillerrno Ruan             R Halperin                P lsenman

 Completion                        Guillermo Ruan              J lrigoyen             D Dowsett-Coirolo      __
                                                                                                        __.I


                                              vii


Preface

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Honduras
Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project, for which a credit (Credit 2458-HO) of US$65
million was approved in 1993.The project closed, fully disbursed, four years later than
planned in December 2001. The main reason for the extension was hurricane Mitch,
which also occasioned a supplementary Bank credit of US$20 million in 1998 for
technical assistance, rebuilding and repairing critical infrastructure, and replacing
computer equipment and vehicles.

        The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) prepared this report based on a
review of the President's Report, Staff Appraisal Report, transcripts of Board
proceedings, project correspondence files, Bank documents on other transport projects
and other Bank material. In June 2002, an OED mission traveled to Honduras to discuss
the project with official representatives of the appropriate ministries and representatives
of the beneficiaries. Further discussions with Bank staff took place during 2003 and early
2004.

        The PPAR had four objectives: to examine project preparation and supervision,
including borrower participation; to assess institutional developments and government
commitment to restructuring; to evaluate project outcomes; and draw lessons for the
future. The project was selected for assessment on ICR recommendation to document and
draw lessons from reforms on the road and aviation sub-sectors as well as concessions
and private sector participation in the transport sector.

        Following standard procedures, copies of the PPAR were sent to the borrower for
comments and are attached as Annex B.


                                              ix


Summary
        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) for the Honduras Transport Sector
Rehabilitation Project, for which a credit (Credit 2458-HO) of US$65 million was
approved in 1993,The project closed fully disbursed four years later than planned in
December 2001. The main reasons for the extension were the devastation caused by
hurricane Mitch - which led to a supplementary credit of US$20 million in 1998, for
rebuilding and repairing critical infrastructure and implementation delays following a
                                                 -
change in government.

        The project had two objectives. The first was to improve and rehabilitate transport
infrastructure in the main trade corridors in support of the government's efforts for export
and private sector-led growth and to reduce the backlog of deferred maintenance. The
second was to improve the institutional and regulatory framework of the sector.

        There were three project components. The investment component (94 percent)
supported a time slice of the government's Transport Sector Investment Plan. The
specific investments and their supervision included the rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance of important main roads and bridges as well as rural roads and bridges in
agriculturally rich areas, and the San Pedro Sula airport's facilities, runway, taxiways,
and apron. The institutional development component (five percent) strengthened the
capabilities of the transport sector administrations in regulation, asset management and
environmental planning; provided technical assistance in privatizing the ports and
airports; and supported studies in railways and urban transport. The policy component
(one percent of the project total) was embodied in the government's Transport Sector
Policy Statement, which emphasized competition and increasing the role of the private
sector through restructuring the port, airport, and railway sub-sectors.

        The project was very complex due to its broad coverage of the transport sector
and to the pervasive changes it sought in the sector framework and functioning. Its
implementation was further complicated by the occurrence of two hurricanes, one right
after approval and the other, the very destructive hurricane Mitch toward the end of the
planned project period in 1998.

        The long implementation delay was a consequence of a change in government
immediately after project effectiveness, leading to a reassessment of the project's policy
and institutional reforms, which in the end were not altered; this took much more time
than anticipated. In addition, hurricane Mitch, not only led to a supplemental credit for
new civil works, but also repairs to civil works already completed that were damaged by
the storm. The supplemental credit became part of the project and has been evaluated as
part of this report.

        The achievement of institutional development objectives was very successful. In
the road sector it went well beyond expectations and established a modern framework
consisting of owner, administrator, manager, and supplier entities. The private sector is
now the supplier of all service delivery and the government has sold all its road
construction and maintenance equipment. The management of the four Honduran airports

                                                X


is now a concession awarded to an international consortium. In the port and railroad
sectors useful studies were undertaken, but this restructuring is still evolving. In urban
transport no private sector model was found to be viable because of equity and poverty
considerations.

        The investment component exceeded its targets and kept costs under control.
Road maintenance funding improved and the creation of the Road Fund institutionalized
it. The Road Fund finances road maintenance that is now carried out by small private
sector entrepreneurs. As expected at appraisal, the economic returns to the road
improvements were well above 12 percent.

        The assessment finds that the project achievements were substantial, especially
considering the change in government, which required re-creating ownership, and the
difficult conditions under which the civil works were carried out due to the hurricanes.
Sustainability of the results of the project is likely within the framework that has been
established.

        The assessment rates the project outcome as satisfactory based on its high
relevance, substantial efficacy, and substantial efficiency. The only criticism is that
preparation for appraisal may have been too detailed for this type of project. The
assessment rates sustainability as likely, and institutional development impact as
substantial;it rates Bank performance as satisfactory and borrower performance
also satisfactory.

The key lessons from the project are as follows:

        Good preparation is important, but must allow for a realistic time frame. For
       policy/institutional restructuring projects, it should set out the broad study
        direction and assist the borrower to take full ownership of the process, which
        should be fine-tuned as the project proceeds, with full input from the key sector
       players.

        Theproject preparation plan should include an assessment ofpossible risks. In
        the event that theproject experiences internal and/or external shocks
        necessitating institutional restructuring, such restructuring can best be expedited
        through aflexible approach and good supervision.


    0   Key elements of aproject'spolicy and institutional development agenda may still
        be completed after aproject's closing date if theproject staff and consultants
        have nurtured an appropriate relationshipfor that agenda and remain engaged, if
       possible, beyond project closing.




                                                                        Gregory K. Ingram
                                                                         Director-General
                                                                       Operations Evaluation

1. Introduction and Background

1.1     Honduras's economy is one of the least developed in Latin America. Historically
it has been dependent on banana and coffee exports, but in the 1990s efforts were made
to diversify production to include shrimp, melons and maquila (offshore assembly for re-
export). Investment incentives were aimed at attracting foreign capital. This strategy has
been particularly successful for maquila; in 2000 value-added export revenue was the
largest single generator of foreign exchange earnings.

1.2     In 1994,just after the project became effective, there was a change of
government. Partido Liberal, which won the elections, inherited a large public-sector
deficit, a foreign-exchange shortage, and an energy crisis. Through an austerity program
the country was brought out of recession, but inflation persisted. Economic reforms
proceeded slowly. The government continued to promote socioeconomic development
through private sector participation in the economy, modernization of state institutions
and the implementation of social programs. In 2001, the opposition party won the
elections and took power after the project closing.

1.3     In October 1998,hurricane Mitch struck Central America with devastating
consequences. Some 7,000people were killed, over 200,000 dwellings were destroyed,
and 1.5 million people were left homeless. Infrastructure was damaged nationwide,
including 163 bridges, 6,000 kilometers of roadway, water and sewage pipes, airports,
ports, and schools. The replacement cost of the damage was an estimated US$5 billion,
equivalent to 95 percent of the Honduran GDP in 1998.Agriculture suffered the greatest
degree of destruction. Flooding ruined 70 percent of the banana plantations in the
northern Sula valley and led to heavy losses of basic grains. About 20 percent of the
coffee harvest and shrimp farming was affected; only the maquila sector survived largely
unscathed.

1.4     Traditionally, Honduras's economic performance has been related to international
prices for the country's main exports, bananas and coffee. Growth reached an average of
four percent in the period 1995-98with higher coffee prices and general economic
recovery driven by manufacturing, finance, and other service sectors. Given extensive
hurricane damage, the 1.9percent contraction in GDP in 1999represented a good
containment effort, attributable in part to efforts to diversify the economy away from
agriculture in the 1990s.

1.5     The transport sector, at the beginning of project preparation, was organized as
government administrations and entities and much of the work was done by direct labor
with little private sector participation. Regulation of the sector were not grounded on the
principle of separating the policy and regulatory functions, pricing had little role in
regulating firms' behavior, and project design and resource allocation in the sector were
not guided by economic considerations. The aim of this project was to introduce a new
approach to managing the entire transport sector.

                                              2


2. Preparation and Objectives

2.1     The Bank has been active in the Honduras transport sector since 1955 and had
implemented six successful highway projects and three port projects before beginning the
preparation of the Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project (TSRP) in the early 1990s. The
previous highway projects had focused on developing physical infrastructure, both main
roads and rural local roads, and on developing a maintenance culture and a well-equipped
maintenance organization within the Highway Department (DGC). Institutional
development had gradually assumed greater significance and was a central concern when
TSRP was designed. The three port projects had successful institution building
components, while some of the physical components suffered from cost overruns and low
economic rates of return. The previous road loans and credits totaled US$119.6 million
and the port loans and credits totaled US$31.3million.

2.2     The TSRP was a new concept, prepared in a context that allowed for increased
private sector participation. It coincided with government reforms in key sectors,
including transportation, and with IDA'Snew lending strategy in Honduras. The project
broadened the BankADA strategy in Honduras from project lending to sector-wide
lending. The goals of the government and of IDA were to redefine the government's role
in the transport sector and to finance a percentage of the sector's investment program.
Specifically, the government and IDA had two goals: first, to help improve and
rehabilitate transport infrastructure in the main trade corridors in support of government
efforts to stimulate export and private sector-led growth and to reduce the backlog of
deferred maintenance, and, second, to help improve the sector's institutional and
regulatory framework. These goals were detailed in the project's objectives: to support
the rehabilitation and maintenance of important roads; to increase private sector provision
of transport services; to establish investment and pricing policies based on efficiency and
equity; to integrate into the Secretariat of Communications, Public Works, and Transport
(SECOPT) a systematic consideration of environmental concerns; to strengthen the
planning and regulatory capability of SECOPT (later reorganized as SOPTRAVI); to
restructure the port subsector and redefine the role of the National Port Company (ENP);
to design and implement a strategy for the development of the airport subsector; and to
rationalize railway operations.

2.3     To achieve these objectives the project had three components:

The investment component (93.9 percent of the project total) was designed to support a
time slice of the government's 1993-96 Transport Sector Investment Plan, expected to
total about US$547.7 million. The specific investments to be financed were: (i)
rehabilitation of about 150 kilometers of roads in the main export corridors; (ii) periodic
maintenance of about 1,800 kilometers (of which 800 kilometers were expected to be
paved) of the road network; (iii) construction and rehabilitation of about 1,000 meters of
bridges; (iv) rehabilitation of 1,000 kilometers of feeder roads in agriculturally rich areas;
and (v) rehabilitation of the runway, taxiway, and construction of the apron of the San
Pedro Sula airport.

Thepolicy component (1.2 percent of the project total) was embodied in the
government's Transport Sector Policy Statement, which included an Action Plan to be

                                              3


implemented under the project. The Action Plan emphasized regulatory and pricing
policies to improve competition and cost recovery and aimed at: (i) designing and
implementing an appropriate regulatory framework for urban and inter-urban road
transport, as well as the revision of Transport Law; (ii) increasing the role of the private
sector in road maintenance; (iii) implementing sound road user charges and axle load
controls; and (iv) designing measures to reorganize the port, airport, and railway
subsectors.

Institutional development and technical assistance (4.9 percent of the project total) was
intended to implement the Action Plan for consultancy services to: (i) strengthen the
capabilities of the SECOPT's Under Secretariat for Planning and Finance (SSPF) and the
Directorate General of Transport (DGT) to carry out project evaluation and implement a
regulatory framework; (ii) expand the role of the Environment Unit to encompass all
transport modes and effectively integrate environmental aspects in SECOPT's investment
decisions; (iii) support the implementation of the action plan in the areas of
privatizatioddivestiture in the port and airport sub-sectors; and (iv) strengthen
SECOPT's capacity for bridge management.

2.4     The project was highly complex and prepared in great detail. Identification and
appraisal took 102.3 staff weeks at a cost of US$285,100. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) is extensive and includes the government's policy direction and action plan.
Institutional analysis and an institutional development plan preceded the design of the
institutional development and technical assistance components and are also contained in
the annexes in the SAR, as well as much quantitative background data and the terms of
reference for the technical assistance. By any measure each component was thoroughly
planned. Finally, the specific investments to be financed by the investment component
were selected using engineering economy criteria using the Highway Design Model
(HDM), which was introduced and adopted by the Highway Department (DGC) during
project preparation.

2.5     The previous six projects had supported and helped establish the core road
network, capacity for planning road maintenance and capacity to implement civil works.
These capabilities were of enormous ilhportance as this project unfolded. The port
projects had helped create reasonably well-functioning ports and a semi-autonomous
national port company. The new project sought to develop an integrated transport sector
with policies and capacities appropriate for a new environment. It delineated the role of
the Ministry as the policymaker, developed and reinforced the capacity of government
administrations, which were to be managed independently under Ministry (SOPTRAVI)
oversight, and transferred service delivery and supplier functions to the private sector.
This ensured that the government's policies had parliamentary support, established
independent or quasi-private administrations and entities to administer and manage the
administrations' programs and secured efficient private sector service delivery through
competition. Given Honduras's development stage and context, the thinking in project
preparation, in the early 1990swas innovative, even from the perspective of 10year's
hindsight.

2.6     The amount of resources (time and money) spent on project preparation was,
however, considerable and should have been better justified in the ICR. The SAR details

                                                4


the Bank's previous work in Honduras, but it does not reveal the extent of the task team's
historical knowledge of Honduras. Such knowledge is important in project preparation.
On the one hand, if the team's historical knowledge was limited, it couldjustify the
significant preparation expenditure of a complex project. On the other hand, if its
historical knowledge was substantial, it is arguable whether it was efficient to spend so
much time and effort to prepare the project. This is especially so when Honduras's
political history shows that administration can switch every one or two election cycles.
Indeed, the change in administration immediately after project approval and the
hurricanes (Gert and Mitch) substantially altered the course of the project.

2.7     In retrospect, it is apparent that the project was over-prepared. Too much effort
was spent on issues and details that could not be planned ahead with certainty. The
substantial institutional and administrative changes envisaged for the sector should not be
planned in depth at that point and require a different approach to deal with them,
including risk assessment. The project does, however, provide lessons on how to deal
with project preparation and supervision effectively, and how to manage complex
projects in difficult environments, be they caused by external shocks (a hurricane) or
internal shocks (change in administration) or both (economic recession).

3. Implementation and Results

3.1     The project was extended four times by a total of four years and closed at the end
of 2001, instead of 1997. The project components were amended five times without
amending the project objectives. The first amendment, in 1994, financed an additional
260 kilometers of feeder roads and bridges damaged by hurricane Gert, and provided an
advance of $10 million from the credit for civil works to relieve temporarily the pressure
on counterpart funding. The second amendment, in 1996,was to construct and
rehabilitate additional bridges and expand the maintenance program to an additional 750
paved roads. The third amendment provided for construction of the apron to the San
Pedro Sula airport terminal. In response to the extensive damage caused by hurricane
Mitch, the fourth amendment, in 1998,provided a supplementary credit of $20 million
for technical assistance, rebuilding and repairing critical infrastructure, and replacing
computer equipment and vehicles. The fifth amendment, in 2000, facilitated the financing
of equipment and vehicles required to launch the operation of the Road Fund.

Achievement of Objectives and Results

Investment Component: The Civil Works

3.2     The project's civil works component met or exceeded its targets (Table 1).This is
a very significant achievement given the impact of Gert in 1993 and Mitch in 1998.The
latter caused extensive damage, including some civil works that had already been
completed. The Bank team acted swiftly and reoriented the program to repair the damage
to critical infrastructure and procured prefabricated Bailey bridges to reconnect the main
transport routes in the country. This was done using the technical tools that had been
acquired with project support to ensure that infrastructure with the highest economic

                                               5


return was restored first. Ex-post evaluation shows that the implemented projects were
efficient; their ERRSare above 21 percent, higher than estimated at appraisal.

        Table 1. Outputs of the Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project

                 Type of civil works        Planned (km)    Executed (km)  Percent

       Rehabilitation of highways roads          150              170        113
       Rehabilitation of feeder roads           1,000            1,236       124
       Maintenance of roads                     1,800            1,864       104
       Rehabilitation of bridges (meters)       1,000            1,170       117
       Rehabilitation of San Pedro Sula     Entire runway    Entire runway   100
       Airport runway



Policy Component
3.3     The government's ambitious Sector Policy Statement for the transport sector was
partially achieved. In the road sector, where it was fully achieved, the project helped
evolve and reorganize the responsibilities of the sector players into owner, administrator,
manager, and supplier. This is a very modern approach to road management, which has
been implemented only in a handful of (developed) countries. The following presents the
current organization and directions for its further development:

        The owner, Secretariat of Communications, Public Works, and Transport
        (SECOPT), was reorganized and transformed into the Ministry of Public Works,
        Transport, and Housing (SOPTRAVI). The staff of SECOPT's Department of
        Road Maintenance (DGCCA) was reduced from about 5,500 in 1993 to about 700
        in 1999.Later that year the department was closed and the remaining staff were
        either released or was transferred to the Road Fund when that began operating in
        1999.Many of the retrenched staff went to the private sector to become road
        maintenance contractors. The section of SECOPT responsible for undertaking
        road maintenance was thus disbanded and its equipment sold to the private sector.
        Outsourcing maintenance has increased efficiency as the separation of production
        and management roles has increased accountability. In generic terms, the new
        sector organization clarified the responsibilities of the government as the road
        owner for funding, policy, and the legal and regulatory framework for
        management of the road (and transport) network. In Honduras, a new ministry,
        SOPTRAVI, was created and it acts as the owner of the road networks for the
        state. SOPTRAVI is the parent ministry for all transport mode entities.


    0   The administration ofroads is directed from a unit in SOPTRAVI, UPEG
        (Unidad de Planificacion y Evaluacion de Gestion), for economic evaluation,
        planning and programming of road investments. The project was instrumental in
        the creation of this unit. UPEG now has a geographic information system and
        road and bridge management systems with appropriate data collection procedures.
        A system for monitoring projects and procurement processes was also
        implemented. The project assisted in the establishment of an environment unit
        within UPEG to mainstream environmental assessments in all transport sector
        investments. In generic terms, Road Administration is the entity responsible for

                                                             6


           effecting the owner's road sector policies (and in some cases specifying activities
           to be carried out) and ensuring that the performance of the road network meets the
           political aims of the owner. In Honduras, UPEG was created, staffed, and trained
           to act as the administrator for the road sector. Currently UPEG is part of the
           ministry and it has delegated some functions that normally reside with the
           administrator to the road sector managers. Institutional development of UPEG
           needs to continue to broaden its responsibilities in authority and oversight, and in
           monitoring and evaluation.

           The management of roads and bridges also underwent change. The Road Fund
           became responsible for routine and periodic maintenance (of the paved network,
           but its responsibility is being expanded to cover all roads). The reorganized
           Directorate General for Roads (DGC) continued its responsibility as manager of
           the road rehabilitation investments and the Directorate General for Public Works
           (DGOP) for managing the highway construction and development of the road
           network. All are government entities. All of these units received planning and
           programming advice, and the framework budget from UPEG. In generic terms,
           Road Manager is an entity or entities responsible for specifying activities to be
           carried out, supervising, controlling, and monitoring them. In many countries, for
           the main roads at least, the managerial role is combined with that of the road
           administration. Increasingly, there is a worldwide movement toward
           administrations appointing managers under contract for different parts of the
           network, especially the lower functional classes. These network managers are
           typically consulting companies. In Honduras, there are three principal road
           managers DGOP, DGC, and the Road Fund. It is unusual to fragment the road and
           bridge management responsibilities by program rather than network. This
           arrangement may be unique to Honduras and probably owes its existence to the
           weakness of the Road Administration, UPEG, to exercise control over the road
           managers' activities. The danger being avoided seems to be that a road manager
           would spend the money inefficiently, but succumb to political pressures and
           prefer new construction to maintenance, for example.

           The supplierfor the service delivery is now primarily the private sector in
           Honduras. Periodic and routine road maintenance is undertaken by contract for
           the most part. The Road Fund underpins the financing and supports the
           maintenance of the paved, main road network with plans to extend the coverage to
           all public roads as experience is gathered. Private companies also deliver road
           rehabilitation and development investments. In generic terms, the supplier is the
           entity or entities responsible for delivery of services: design, construction, or
           maintenance of roads, selected competitively, and supervised by the manager. The
           preferred supplier is the private sector. In Honduras, the Road Fund was
           established during the project and it subsequently led to the creation of viable
           small enterprises.'



1. The work of the small enterprises was visible. Roads with small enterprise maintenance contracts were better,
including the roadside, and that had material effect on driving experience and also conveyed a perception of better
traffic safety.

                                               7


3.4     That this rational division of responsibility between owner, administrator,
manager, and supplier was accomplished in a single project demonstrates skilled
management by the Project Coordination Unit. However, the sharing of road
management responsibilities between four entities-three government and one private-
is not the best possible model. It can be justified as an evolutionary phase in order to
ensure that priorities do not become exclusively political, to mitigate political risks, and
that experimentation is necessary to find the right arrangement and mix between public
and private entities. Nonetheless, the results of the reorganization have been positive. The
Road Fund has stabilized maintenance of the paved road network and created (private)
small enterprises and employment opportunities in the road sector. These enterprises now
undertake routine maintenance activities with simple (hand)tools and a vehicle. They are
legally registered and owned by the employees. There is nothing that prevents them from
acquiring mechanical equipment and from bidding for more complex works, especially
on gravel roads, or diversifying (as has happened in Peru).

3.5     The Road Fund income is derived from a percentage contribution (31percent)
from the fuel excise tax. This arrangement, while an improvement over the history of
unpredictable road (maintenance) financing in Honduras, is not satisfactory as the
government can "raid" the Road Fund when it so wishes. A "fee for service" principle
should preferably to be established whereby the road user charges, consisting of fixed
charges (license and heavy vehicle fees) and variable charges (a tariff on fuel, border
crossing charge) go directly to the Road Fund. The Road Fund also needed a governing
board at the time of review. Finally, it is worth mentioning that the government passed a
Concession Law in 1998 to provide a framework for private financing and management
of transport infrastructure.

3.6     The project supported studies of urban transport, ports, railways, and aviation.
Only the study of airports has so far resulted in definite actions. Nonetheless, the other
studies clarified the issues and actions are expected regarding the railways during the
follow-on project; Highway Rehabilitation and Reconstruction project (Credit 3432-HO)
approved in 2000 which also includes consultancy studies for other modes of transport.
The urban transport study focused on one urban region, San Pedro Sula. The goal was to
improve fiscal performance (for example, by improving bus fare pricing in urban
transport). The study concluded that, in urban transport, targeted subsidies are necessary
for equity reasons and that ill-designed subsidies (in Tegucigalpa) need to be eliminated.
The study also proposed that the municipalities, instead of the central government,
assume responsibility for regulating the services. The results were not unexpected, but
nevertheless remained unimplemented at the time of the assessment. It is a common
experience that targeted user-side subsidies are very difficult to implement because it
takes time to develop regulation and regulation enforcement capacity and, in poor
countries, municipalities often lack the financial resources to provide the subsidies.

    0   Studies for the privatization of the Port of Cortes were completed in November
        1996. The plan had not been implemented at the time of the PPAR review.


    0   Two studies on the Honduran National Railways (Ferrocarril Nacional de
        Honduras) examined its financial aspects and the restructuring with a view to
        introducing private management and ownership into the railway sector. The

                                               8


        economic situation, the industries in the Sula Valley, and demand for railway
        traffic had all changed radically from the situation prevailing during appraisal,
        Tela Railway Company had discontinued service, the banana industry had
        diminished and was now served by trucks, and the maquila has emerged as the
        dominant industry and employer. The study on railway restructuring, completed
        in 2001, identified one railway line with potentially profitable cargo traffic that
        could make it attractive for private sector management and operation. The
        government has not yet taken action on the study's recommendations, but its
        findings continue to be valid. There are related issues-the responsibility for the
       retirees and the titles of real estate believed to belong to the railways-that need
        to be resolved before actions can be taken. The follow-on Highway Rehabilitation
        and Reconstruction project provides support to the new government to privatize
        or concession the railroad.


    0  A new Civil Aviation Law was enacted, and the Congress approved the "Open
        Skies" Law in March 2000 allowing free reciprocal rights to foreign countries to
       provide air service to Honduras. The operations of the four airports Tegucigalpa,
        San Pedro Sula, Ceiba, and Roatan were concessioned in October 2000. A
       Honduran-Multinational Consortium took over the operation of the four airports
       under an agreement that called for the immediate investment of Lps. 150 million
       as part of a long-term commitment to upgrading the facilities in these airports.
       The result of these policy actions was that the Directorate General responsible for
       Civil Aviation (DGCA) in the ministry became strictly a regulatory entity.

3.7    The airport concession has been hailed as a great success, but it is too early to be
sure. Critics maintain that the airport services are now more expensive and, worse, that
Inter-Airports SA, the consortium that holds the concession, is not investing in the
airports as it promised (US$120 million over 20 years), that training of the airport
personnel is neglected and their salaries reduced, and that the airport is making
insufficient efforts to attract foreign investment and industries, which was one of the
objectives.


Technical Assistance and Institutional Development

3.8    There was a strong training and technical development component to improve the
capabilities of SECOPT (later reorganized as SOPTRAVI) in all aspects of (mostly road)
administration and management.

   0   Personnel in several transport sector departments and entities, including DGCA,
       FNH, ENP, SOPTRAVI, and DGT were trained in Honduras and abroad. The
       training program covered project evaluation and environmental assessment,
       planning and budgeting, new road technologies, airport privatization, and road
       and bridge design and management. About 11person-months (during the first
       phase) and 116person-months (during the second phase) of technical assistance
       were provided to SSPF, DGT, and UPEG in transport planning, budgeting,
       financial management, environmental assessment, and bridge management.

                                                9


    0    Technical tools such as geographic information system, bridge management
         system, pavement management system, and other tools for transport planning,
         budgeting, financial management, and environmental assessment were developed
         or improved during project implementation.


    0    In addition to technical assistance and training, the project successfully reoriented
         the government entities either to administrative, regulatory, or managerial roles
         away from the traditional civil works-oriented execution. SOPTRAVI reduced its
         staff and sold its maintenance equipment to the private sector in support of a
         policy of contracting out all maintenance services. The project also broadened the
         scope and mission of the "re-engineered" entities. The environmental unit within
         SOPTRAVI with newly trained staff is the most concrete example. All major
         investments in the sector must now include an environmental impact statement.


    0    Institutional development was also part of the project'spolicy component. It
         comprised, as already mentioned, the reorganization of the road sector, creation of
         the Road Fund, airport concessions, and studies on urban transport, the railways,
         and the ports. These followed directly from the government's changed policy
         orientation in which the administration, policymaking, regulation and most
         management responsibilities reside with the government, and the service delivery
         and some management responsibilities were transferred to the private sector.

3.9      It is noteworthy that the implementation of most of the policy agenda took place
late in the project, well after the original closing date. The success in achieving the
objectives of the policy agenda is partial, but its scope was vast. It is unlikely that such
large changes could have been achieved in four years as originally planned. Moreover, it
is remarkable that while the implemented policy and technical assistance components
were reasonably specific, such as a bridge management system or airport concession, the
implementation success was led by the more indefinable components for which the
outcome was less clear. Policy and structural changes for the road sub-sector also took
place in a complex political environment, but where there were concurrent and successful
"experiments" underway elsewhere that served as a guide. For example, the consultancy
for the organization of the Road Fund and for small enterprises, Consultoria Individual
Para la Organization y Puesta en Marcha del Fondo Vial en Honduras, used the model
established elsewhere in Latin American countries, and in the Peru Rural Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, Loan 3962-PE, PPAR Report No 22474.


Project Management

3.10    Under TSRP a project coordination unit (PCU) was created. A private Honduran
consulting company served the administration as a manager and a coordinator; the same
approach as was used in organizing the road sector. The PCU developed the procurement
documents and requests for consultant proposals and organized competition. It certified
disbursements and managed all of the project's components.

3.11    This experiment was very successful. The ICR posed the following questions for
analysis: (a) whether a foreign firm or ajoint-venture would have the same acceptance

                                               10


and access to government officials as the Honduran consulting firm did; (b) whether the
arrangement is suitable for both policy and investment components and the extent to what
the technical requirements of the project become critical to opting for a private firm.

3.12    The consultants, mainly engineers formerly employed by SOPTRAVI,
coordinated the project and gave high-quality technical support to the project
implementation unit in SOPTRAVI. The consultants brought to the task not only their
skills but also knowledge of how public administrations work, good rapport with public
sector officials, and efficiency. This is an interesting alternative for a traditional PIU and
the consulting technique the PCU employed is worth analyzing further. The question is
why the PCU company was successful in managing the project when some other
consultants, notably for urban transport, ports, and the railways were not.


Project Process and Technique in Working with the Client

3.13     Several consultancies succeeded, including the bridge management system, the
geographical information system, all the design consultancies, most of the training
activities and, probably, the consultancies serving the airport concessions. However,
several important consultancies did not lead to swift decisions, among them the
consultancies for the railways, the ports, and urban transport. It appears then, that
consultancies in more complex political environment or requiring process and
consultations with several stakeholders for decisions required more time than anticipated
and had the least chance of implementation or at least securing a final decision during the
project.


Poverty Reduction

3.14    Because IDA financed the project it should have poverty reduction effects.
However, no formal studies have been undertaken on this score. Even though poverty
reduction became an explicit objective later, poverty reduction effects of this project
should be studied during the follow-on project. These studies should focus on the effects
of the significant institutional and policy changes that were instituted during the project
on efficiency of resource use and the effects of the foreign emergency aid. There is strong
reason to believe that the civil works in this project had a very strong effect on poverty
because they directly alleviated the damage caused by hurricane Mitch, which probably
affected the low-income population most.

3.15    Two aspects of poverty reduction are the employment and business opportunities
in the private sector. Large sums of foreign emergency aid were made available after
hurricane Mitch and pledged to using World Bank processes. Several Honduran private
sector representatives complained to the assessment mission that this aid was tied to
using consultants and contractors from the donor country and that foreign companies
used the highly necessary aid to enter the market at little cost to themselves when the
local companies, professionals and labor were the ones that truly needed jobs. PPAR
observations confirmed some of these claims.

                                              11


4. Ratings

Outcome

4.1     The PPAR rates the outcome of the project as satisfactory, sustainability as likely,
and institutional development impact as substantial. The project objectives were both
timely and relevant, even when emergencies occurred.

Civil Works

4.2     The physical targets were met or exceeded under very difficult circumstances and
amply satisfied both efficiency and efficacy requirements. The project procured the civil
works or temporary bridges in a manner that responded quickly to the emergencies
caused by Gert and Mitch. The task team and the PCU successfully engaged the
government's several agencies in these emergencies in order to promote sustainability of
the civil works and the viability of the private sector.


Institutional Development Impact

4.3     The policy and institutional development components were also relevant and
many were, as noted earlier, "ahead of their time." These polices were consistent with the
country assistance strategy and emphasized competition and private sector development.
The assessment of outcomes for institutional development must also be judged with a
broader definition and understanding than could be shown with progress in the time since
project closing.

4.4     The new road sector organization is consistent with modern thinking; there is a
separation of policy and regulatory functions; training and technical assistance did result
in increased local managerial capacity and entrepreneurship and modern road
management tools were developed and taken into use. As indicated, there is, however, an
unfinished agenda on institutional development and some policy actions were delayed.
On the other hand the government maintains that there never was an intention to
complete all the policy issues included in the Policy Statement during the project, but to
study them in order to select and reach agreement on the best course of action at the
"right" time. This contention is supported by the continuing government pursuit of both
rail and port reforms, and its examination of options for urban transport.


Sustainability

4.5     Sustainability of the project's outputs and outcomes is likely. First, they are
economically viable and there is a funding source for their maintenance either through
the Road Fund or concessions. And second, they are consistent with international best
practice and local conditions. Other aspects of sustainability of project's outcomes are
equally important, e.g. increased local managerial capacity and adoption of viable
management and business strategies by government administrators, as well as numerous
qualified small enterprises capable of maintaining roads.

                                              12


4.6     However, there is a remaining unfinished government agenda on institutional
development that ultimately will have a bearing on sustainability. It is important that the
Bank remains an active partner with the government to ensure continuation of the work
begun in the urban transport, railway, and port sectors, and that the Bank observes the
performance of the airport concession and cooperates with the government and the
private sector if an intervention is deemed desirable. Continued attention and
development is also needed to further consolidate the road sector organizations, and to
clarify and strengthen the roles of the owner, administrator, manager, and supplier.
Finally, much of the road sector's sustainability and development rests on the Road Fund.
The road user charges that constitute the Road Fund income must be based on better
studies and ideally be deposited directly to the Road Fund. To increase transparency in
resource use it would be desirable that a Road Board be established to oversee the
workings of the Road Fund.


Bank and Borrower Performance

4.7     Bank performance was satisfactory. This rating is supported by the project results
and the discussion of the salient aspects of the project in the previous sections. Notable
aspects of the task team's performance included, most obviously, its prompt and
successful response to the damages of two hurricanes, but also its ability to retain the
project objectives and keep the project together in the face of a devastating hurricane, to
gain the cooperation and ownership of the new government for the project's objectives,
and to maintain cost control and targets using project supervision despite external
emergencies and political changes. Part of the satisfactory Bank performance is also the
creation of sustained interest-if not prompt implementation-forpolicy and institutional
issues at many levels of the government and the task team's ability to work seamlessly
both with the PCU and the government entities.

4.8     Borrower performance was also satisfactory. The borrower fully "owned" the
project from beginning to end, despite the change in administration that triggered a
review of the project, slowed it down and delayed some policy actions. The borrower
managed the civil works well, helped develop the private sector, coordinated with
relevant interests, and its PCU was an effective spokesperson and coordinator among the
affected interests in Honduras in respect of the project's social and economic impact.

5. Conclusions and Lessons Learned

5.1     It has already been indicated that the project objectives were and continue to be
relevant. They were consistent with the views of both the old and new governments and
enjoyed support from the worldwide professional community. The same applies for the
general conceptual model that was promoted: greater private sector participation or
outright privatization. However, in spite of this agreement, the measures for rail, ports,
and urban transport are still evolving. For the road sector, a good institutional model
emerged. It would appear then that the objective and the (mental) model, and even the
process for achieving the objectives were spelled out in too great detail during

                                                             13


preparation when a less specific definition would have been more pertinent.2This detail
was both time-consuming and costly and, in the end, was only partially followed. This
leads to the following Lessons Learned:

         Good preparation is important, but must allow for a realistic time frame. For
        policy/institutional restructuring projects, it should set out the broad study
         direction and assist the borrower to take full ownersh@ of the process, which
         should be jne-tuned as the project proceeds, with full input from the key sector
        players.

           Theproject preparationplan should include an assessment ofpossible risks. In
          the event that theproject experiences internal and/or external shocks,
          necessitating institutional restructuring, such restructuring can best be expedited
          through aflexible approach and good supervision.

          Key elements of aproject's policy and institutional development agenda may still
          be completed after aproject's closing date if theproject staff and consultants
          have nurtured an appropriate relationshipfor that agenda and remain engaged, if
         possible, beyond project closing.




2. Again, this is observed in several other audited projects (Pakistan, PPAR No. 20123 Fourth Highway Project, Loan
2814-PAK; Transport Sector Project, Loan 3241-PAK; Karachi Port Modernization Project, Loan 3335-PAK; and
Peru, PPAR No. 22474 Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, Loan 3963-PE; even the results of a
Bolivia project can be viewed in the same way, Bolivia PPAR No.19515: Export Corridors Project, Credit 2012-BO).

                                              15


   Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

   TRANSPORT SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT(CREDIT 2458-HON)


   Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)

                                    Appraisal     Actual or              Actual as percent of
                                    Estimate      current estimate       Appraisal estimate

Total project costs                 82.88         84.27                   102%
Credit amount                       85.00         85.00                   100%




   Staff Inputs (staff weeks)

                                  Actual Weeks                 Actual US$OOO

     Identification/Preparation   51.3                         143.8
     Appraisal/Negotiation        51.O                         141.3
     Supervision                  132.9                        384.2
     Completion                   3.3                           15.8
     Total                        235.2                        669.3


   Project Dates
                                      Original                        Actual

       Appraisal                                                      06/29/92
       Approval                                                       02116/93
       Effectiveness                  07/27/93                        07127193
       Closing                        12/31/97                        12131101

                                              16


Mission Data

                 Date         No. of      Specialization Performance rating** Types of Problems
                 (month/year) Persons     represented* impiementation           Development
                                                            Status              objectives


Identification/ 1991-1992      4        TTL, HE, ENV,
Preparation                             DO

Appraisal/         June/July   7        TTL,HE,PT,RL,
Negotiation           1992              Cons, ENV

                  December,    4        TTL,HE,LA,DO
                      1992

Supervision
                 May 1993      3        TTL, HE, IS                   S
                 August 1993   4        TTL,HE,CA,PA                  S
                 January 1994   3       HE,AV, FA                     S
                 April 1994     2       HE, FA                        S
                 October 1994  4        HE,TE,LA,WP                   S
                 March 1995     1       HE                            S
                 August 1995    2       HE, PR                        S
                 January 1996   3       HE,AV, ENV                    S
                 March 1997     1       HE                            S
                 January 1998   2       TTL (HE), FA                  S
                 May 1998       1       TTL (HE)                      S
                 October 1998  4        TTL,FA, Cons,                 S
                                        Cons
                 February       3       TTL, HE, Cons                 S
                 1999
                 March 1999     6       TTL,HE,ENV,BR                 S
                                        ,ME,RL
                 October 1999   2       TTL (HE), CE                  S
                 February       6       TTL,HE,FM,CE,                 S
                 2000                   DE,RL
                 August 2000    4       TTL,EC,HDM,                   S
                                        ENV
                 January 2001   2       TTL (HE),RL                   S

ICR
                 June, 2001     1       FM
* TTL=Task Team Leader                   ENV=Environmental Specialist
HE=Highway Engineer                      BR-Bridge Specialist
IS=Institutional Specialist              RL=Railway Specialist
CA=Civil Aviation Specialist             ME=Micro-enterprise Specialist
PA=Project Assistant                     CE=CiviI Engineer
AV=Aviation Specialist                   DE=Drainage Engineer
FA=Financial Analyst                     F.M=Financial Management Expert
TE=Transport Engineer                    HDM=Highway Design Model Program Expert
LA=Lawyer                                Cons=Consultant
WP=Water Pollution Specialist            EC=Economist
PR=Procurement Specialist                PT=Port Specialist


**S = Satisfactory

                                                   17


Annex B. Borrower Comments
              a




SECRETAM.\ DE ESTA I)( 1
  EN EL DESPACtIO DE
   OBRAS PURL.ICAS.
     ' I X \ YSPORTE
       Y b'l\ 1EKD:I
      "SOPTRAVI"
    OFXCIO No. DM-00243


     Cornayaguela, M.D.C.
     Mayo 24 de 2004


     Mr.
     Alain Barbu                          6
     Manager Sector Thematic Evaluation Group
     Operations Evduation Department
     Worid Bank, Washington, D.C. 20433

     Dear Mr. Barbu:

     SOPTWVI has revised the draft of The Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project
     (Credit 2458-H0)and we agree in all parts contained on such draft.

     The four objectives of the PPAR are well presented and wisely approached.




     Cc: Itrg. Rokrto A. Ozc!ijiiez W.k c w r Pniwgatdel Ministra
     Cc: Fng. RobertoAt.&,   Unidad Dco. blundial
     Cc: Atxhtua
     RAOV.f,'anaq




                                       "ELGOBEkYO DE LACENTE"



