Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4673-MN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing For the Energy Project) 
 
between 
 
MONGOLIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 16, 2010 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated April 16, 2010 ,  entered into between MONGOLIA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) 
for 
the purpose of providing additional financing for 
the Additional
 
Activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in the amount equivalent to 
seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,600,000) 
(variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the Project’s 
Additional Activities described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall, through MMRE, carry out Parts E and F of the Project, 
and cause UBEDN to carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Additional Activities under the Project are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of UBEDN to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
The UBEDN shall have failed to perform any of it obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement
.
(c) 
The Energy Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
UBEDN to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely: any 
event specified in Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of thirty (30)
 
days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
Page  5
3
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and UBEDN; and 
(b) 
The Project Steering Committee has been established pursuant to the 
provisions of Section I.A.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely: that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and 
UBEDN; and is legally binding upon the Recipient and UBEDN in accordance 
with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years (20) after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Government Building 2 
United Nations’ Street 5/1 
Ulaanbaatar, 210646 
Mongolia 
Facsimile: 
976-11-262272 
Page  6
4
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
MONGOLIA  
 
By /s/ S. Bayartsogt 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Arshad Sayed 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to: (i) reduce electricity 
system losses and improve service reliability in electricity distribution in Ulaanbaatar and 
selected Aimag centers; (ii) improve revenue collections in the electricity distribution 
system; and (iii) build up institutional capacity to move toward a more commercial and 
market-based energy sector. 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following Additional 
Activities: 
Part D
:
UBEDN Investments
“Carrying out critical investments in UBEDN’s distribution network, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) replacing circuit breakers; (ii) constructing new substations and 
switching stations;
 
(iii)  expanding 
load  capacity 
of 
existing 
substations;           
(iv) installing new cables and switchgears; and (v) acquiring equipment 
necessary for the monitoring of 35 kV cable faults.” 
Part E
:
Development of Distribution Network Planning 
Developing the planning and design capabilities of UBEDN and CRETC in order 
to prepare more efficient and structured investment plans for the distribution and 
transmission networks in Ulaanbaatar and the Central Region. 
Part F
:
Capacity Building for UBEDN and Project Management
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of UBEDN in the use of software tools 
for system planning and distribution and transmission network designing.  
2. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MMRE to carry out the Project. 
 
Page  8
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Recipient shall:  
a) establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project 
implementation, a Project Steering Committee, chaired by a State Secretary 
of the MMRE, including representatives from the UBEDN and CRETC, 
which committee shall be assigned with such functions and responsibilities, 
satisfactory to the Association, as shall be required for: (i) providing 
direction to, and oversight of, the PIU with respect to implementation of 
Parts E and F of the Project; (ii) serving as liaison between MMRE, UBEDN 
and CRETC for purposes of coordinating the implementation said 
components (i.e Parts E and F of the Project);  and (iii) coordinating with 
UBEDN, and advising it on, the implementation of Part D of the Project; and 
b) maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a Project 
Implementation Unit (PIU) within MMRE with functions and resources 
acceptable to the Association, under the direction of a qualified staff in 
adequate numbers and experienced manager, and with competent and 
appropriately qualified staff in adequate numbers and provided with funds 
and resources as shall be required to coordinate the overall implementation of 
the Project, including the procurement processes for all Additional Activities.  
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of UBEDN
’s Respective Part of the Project, the 
Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing available to UBEDN 
under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and UBEDN, under terms 
and conditions approved by the Association (the “Subsidiary Agreement”), which 
shall include the following: 
 
(a) the principal amounts so on-lent shall be denominated in United States 
Dollars; 
 
(b) UBEDN shall pay to the Recipient interest charges on the principal amounts 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time under the Subsidiary 
Agreement, at two percent (2%) interest rate per annum; 
Page  9
7
(c) the interest charges incurred until December 31, 2012 pursuant to 
subparagraph (b) above shall be capitalized under the subsidiary loan and 
repaid with the principal pursuant to subparagraph (d) below;  
 
(d) the tenure of the subsidiary loan shall be at least twenty (20) years, inclusive 
of a grace period of not less than eight (8) years and, thereafter, there shall be 
semi-annual amortization for a minimum of twelve (12) years; 
 
(e) the Recipient and UBEDN shall detail their respective undertakings and 
arrangements for the flow of funds (including the assignment of Project 
financial management responsibilities to the PIU
–including those for 
UBEDN’s Respective Part of the Project, as well as the disbursement 
protocols, and the necessary supporting evidence and reporting requirements 
therefor) in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(f)  the Recipient and UBEDN shall agreed that all procurement activities under 
UBEDN’s Respective Part of the Project will be carried out by the PIU, 
regardless of UBEDN’s ownership of any such contracts and its subsequent 
responsibilities of monitoring/supervising contract execution, effecting any 
payments therefor, and fulfilling any undertakings thereunder; 
 
(g) UBEDN shall undertake to operate with diligence and 
efficiency
 and in 
conformity with internationally acceptable administrative, technical, 
financial and economic managerial practices and standards, including a 
proper and transparent accounting system and regular financial audits in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting and auditing standards; and 
 
(h) the Recipient shall have the right to suspend or terminate the Subsidiary 
Agreement, and/or accelerate the recovery of any outstanding amounts 
withdrawn thereunder, upon: (A) UBEDN’s failure to perform any of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement and/or the Project Agreement; 
and (B) the Association’s exercising any of the remedies under Article VI of 
the General Conditions.   
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions
.
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Page  10
8
D. Safeguards
 
1. 
In carrying out the Additional Activities, the Recipient shall ensure, or shall 
cause UBEDN to ensure, that the Additional Activities are implemented in 
accordance with sound environmental and social principles, practices and 
standards, acceptable to the Association. In the event that the Additional 
Activities would require social and/or environmental mitigation measures, the 
Recipient shall implement, or cause UBEDN to implement, any such Additional 
Activities in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Management 
Plan.  
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not, and shall 
cause UBEDN not to revise, suspend, abrogate, waive or amend the 
Environmental Management Plan, whether in whole or in part. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of Part D(ii) of the Project the 
Recipient undertakes to cause UBEDN not to commence any civil works until:  
 
(a) 
the property and titling of the public land where such substations or 
switching stations will be built is properly transferred to UBEDN; 
 
(b) 
UBEDN has prepared the route maps showing property details, type of 
ownership, land usage, and details of any existing buildings along the 
proposed 35 kV transmission lines; and 
 
(c) 
UBEDN has implemented, adopted and/or set in place any social and 
environmental mitigation measures required pursuant to the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
calendar semester covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
Page  11
9
(i) 
by Closing Date, the total system losses of 
UBEDN’s electricity 
distribution network shall have been reduced to 18% of the gross 
power purchased; 
(ii) 
by Closing Date, the additional consumer sales as a result of new 
developments shall amount to 64GWh per annum; and 
(iii) 
by Closing Date, UBEDN’s average time of outstanding billing 
collections of consumer payments currently due shall have been 
reduced to not more than forty-five (45) days as of billing.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain, and cause UBEDN to maintain, a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. Consul
tants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  12
10 
 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. To this end, the Recipient further 
undertakes to: 
(a) 
advertise all invitation for International Competitive Bidding 
procurement in:  
 
(i) 
the dgMarket website (
www.procurement.dgmarket.com
)
and  
 
the Recipient’s public procurement website (
www.e- 
procurement.mn
);  
 
(ii) 
in a daily local newspaper in written Mongolian; and  
 
(iii) 
in a weekly local newspaper written in English; 
(b) 
prepare the bidding documents in terms satisfactory to the Association, 
using the Association’s model forms; 
(c) 
prepare detailed bid evaluation reports providing adequate information 
and supporting evidence, satisfactory to the Association, in order to 
determine the responsiveness or rejection of submitted bids; 
(d) 
publish contract awards in United Nations Development Business and 
the dgMarket website within two (2) weeks as of receipt of the 
Association’s non-objection letter to the recommendation of the 
respective contract award; and 
(e) 
provide for contract payments for supplied goods to be made through 
letters of credit 
or
 direct payments as agreed among the contracting 
parties. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Page  13
11 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Shopping 
(subject to the standardized procedures set forth in the 
Attachment to this Schedule) 
 
(b) Direct 
Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Quality Based Selection 
 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c)  Single Source Selection 
 
(d) Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:       
(a) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$100,000 or more; (b) each contract for goods procured on the basis of Direct 
Contracting regardless of its value; (c) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more;      
(d) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated and 
awarded on the basis of Single Source Selection, regardless of its value; and      
(e) each contract for consultants’ services provide by individual consultants 
estimated to costs the equivalent of US$50,000 or more.  All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Page  14
12 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Goods and works under 
Part D of the Project 
6,780,000 100% 
(2)  Consultants’ services 
(including software 
development) under Parts E 
and F of the Project 
566,000 100% 
(3) Training and Workshops 
under Parts E and F of the 
Project and Incremental 
Operating Costs 
254.000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
7,600,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 314,000 equivalent 
Page  15
13 
 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after December 1, 
2009, for Eligible Expenditures under Category 1.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
Page  16
14 
 
A
TTACHMENT TO 
S
CHEDULE 
2
Standardized Procedures for Shopping 
A. 
Application of Shopping 
1. 
Shopping may be used to procure small amounts of off-the-shelf goods or 
standard specification commodities for which more competitive methods are not 
justified on the basis of cost or efficiency.
 
2. 
To avoid any abuses, Recipient shall only use Shopping in those cases justified 
beyond contention.  The Recipient shall not resort to Shopping on the basis of its 
expediency, nor shall it fraction large procurement packages in order to use this 
method.
 
3. 
Shopping shall not be used in those cases requiring complex contract 
specifications or elaborate, detailed evaluation systems (e.g. consideration of 
efficiencies, delivery times, etc.).  In all these cases, the Recipient shall employ 
formal bidding processes.
 
B. Threshold 
for 
Shopping
 
4. 
Shopping procedures may be used for the procurement of goods costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent, and pursuant to the Procurement Plan, as approved by 
the Association. 
C. 
Number and Origin of Quotations to be Compared
 
5. 
The Recipient must obtain and compare at least three valid quotations in order to 
establish the reasonable price.  If there were more than one provider of the 
desired goods, at competitive prices, the Recipient will be entitled to use national 
Shopping and obtain at least three quotations, otherwise the Recipient shall use 
international Shopping procedures and request quotations from suppliers from at 
least two different countries.  Quotation of foreign-manufactured goods located 
in Mongolia and offered by a firm located in Mongolia shall be considered as 
quoted from abroad for purposes of satisfying the 
“different-countries” origin 
rule. 
D. 
Firms to be Invited
 
6. 
The Recipient shall exercise its due diligence to satisfy itself that the firms 
invited to quote are reputable, well established, and are regular suppliers of the 
goods or services being purchased.  In the event that the Recipient receives an 
unsolicited quotation, such quotation will only be accepted after the Recipient 
Page  17
15 
 
has carried out the aforementioned due diligence to verify the nature and 
reputation of the firm furnishing said quotation.
 
E. 
Form of Requests
 
7. 
The Recipient shall request quotations by correspondence, fax, telex, electronic 
messaging, etc., (with proof of receipt and record keeping).  The requests shall 
include the description and quantity of the goods to be procured, as well as the 
required delivery time and place for such goods or services, including any 
installation requirements, as appropriate.  The request shall also indicate the date 
by which the quotations shall be made (normally, at least two weeks as of the 
date of the request).  
F.
 
Prices and Currencies
 
8. 
Prices for goods supplied from within the territory of the Recipient (including 
previously imported items) shall be requested to be quoted EXW (ex works, ex 
factory, ex warehouse ex show room or off-the-shelf, as applicable), including all 
custom duties and sale and other taxes already paid or payable on the raw 
materials and components.  For goods offered from abroad (i.e., not previously 
imported), prices shall be requested CIF or CIP.  Prices can be quoted in any 
currency stated in, and acceptable pursuant to,
 the Recipient’s request.
 
G. Submission 
of 
Quotations
 
9. 
The Recipient shall request that suppliers submit their quotations in writing (i.e., 
by fax, telex, letter, or electronic messaging).  Copies of such quotations shall be 
kept for the records.  No bid or performance securities shall be required. 
H.
 
Comparison of Quotations
 
10. 
The Recipient shall compare the submitted quotations adding to the quoted price 
for goods, the estimated cost of inland transportation and insurance, if any, to the 
final destination.  For purposes of this comparison, prices shall be converted into 
local currency at the exchange rate on the day of invitation of the quotes or the 
day of comparison.  The purchase contract shall be awarded to the supplier 
quoting the lowest price.  
I. 
Record of Award
 
11. 
The Recipient shall document the award decision and its rationale and keeps 
those records for post-review and audit by the Association.  The record shall 
contain the list of firms invited and the list and value of the quotations received.
 
Page  18
16 
 
J. Currency 
of 
Payment
 
12. 
Purchase orders shall specify the currency of payment which shall be the same as 
the currency of the quote. 
 
Page  19
17 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
commencing April 15, 2020 to and including 
October 15, 2029 
1% 
commencing April 15, 2030 to and including 
October 15, 2049 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  20
18 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Additional Activities” means the Project activities described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (i.e. Parts D, E and F of the Project). 
2. 
“Aimag” means a province of the Recipient. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants,” dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Central Region” means the Aimags served by CRETC. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
7. 
“CRETC” means the Central Region Electricity Transmission Company, a 
company established and operating under Mongolia’s law, pursuant to its charter 
dated August 12, 2002, and the Government Resolution No. 164, dated July 9, 
2001, responsible for the transmission of electricity in the Aimags of Tuv, 
Ovorkhangai, Arkhangai, Bayankhongor, Darkhan-Uul, Govi-Sumber, Orkhon, 
Selenge, Bulgan, Dundgovi, Dornogovi, Khuvsgul, Dornod, and Khentii, and any 
successor thereto. 
8. 
“Energy Law” means the law on electricity and heat supply and distribution, 
approved by the Recipient’s Parliament on February 1, 2001, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement.  
9. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the management plan adopted by 
UBEDN,  dated October 1, 2009, providing for appropriate evaluation, 
monitoring, consultation, mitigation and grievance redressal mechanism and their 
budgets, as well as the institutional responsibilities and procedures, required to 
offset or eliminate any potentially adverse environmental impact of the 
Additional Activities (including the potential impact caused by the removal of 
equipment containing polychlorinated byphenil). 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
Page  21
19 
 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
11. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of the incremental 
expenditures incurred by the PIU in relation to the Additional Activities, which 
expenditure would not have been incurred absent the Additional Activities, 
including, 
inter alia:
 office rental; vehicles rental, operations and maintenance; 
in-country travel allowances; storage costs; shipping and handling charges; 
banking services and insurance costs; communication and dissemination 
expenses; translation and printing costs; and utilities fees and security costs; but 
excluding salaries or salary supplements of the Recipient’s civil servants. 
12. 
“MMRE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy, and 
any successor thereto. 
13. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement for 
an Energy Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated August 2, 
2001, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No 3503-MOG). 
14. 
“Original Project” means the project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement (i.e. Parts A, B and C of the Project). 
15. 
“Project” means, jointly, the Original Project (i.e. Parts A, B and C) and the 
Additional Activities (i.e. Parts D, E and F).  
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 1, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
18. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means UBEDN. 
 
19. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Government Resolution 
No. 203, dated July 9, 2001.  
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Unit” and the acronym “PIU” mean the unit established in 
2000 and reassigned to MMRE through MMRE Ministerial Order 32, dated 
November 29, 2004 as amended, in order to provide technical capacity for the 
implementation of the Original Project and to be maintained pursuant to Section 
I.A. sub-paragraph (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for purposes of the 
implementation of the Additional Activities. 
Page  22
20 
 
21. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee to be established pursuant to 
Section I.A. sub-paragraph (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for purposes of 
carrying out the oversight to Project implementation. 
 
22. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Financing available to UBEDN. 
23. 
“Training and Workshops” means the reasonable costs of training, workshops 
and conferences conducted in the territory of the Recipient or overseas (subject to 
the prior no-objection of the Association), including the purchase and publication 
of materials, rental of facilities, course fees, and travel and substance of trainees. 
24. 
“Ulaanbaatar” means the capital city of the Recipient. 
25. 
“UBEDN” means the Ulaanbaatar Electricity Distribution Network Company, a 
company established and operating under Mongolia’s law, pursuant to its charter 
dated September 12, 2001 and the Government Resolution No. 203, dated July 9, 
2001, responsible for the distribution of electricity throughout the city of 
Ulaanbaatar, and any successor thereto. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
Paragraph (l) of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the 
Association, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) is hereby 
modified to read as follows:   
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Association or the Bank that the 
Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank.”
 
