 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14796

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 09/03/2015

               Country: Mongolia
             Project ID: P040907                                                    Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Energy Sector Project        Project Costs (US$M):                      49.5                 53.96

  L/C Number:              C3503                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                      42.0                  46.6
      Sector Board:        Energy and Mining           Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                              05/03/2001
                                                                 Closing Date:           12/31/2006         09/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Power (97%); Central government administration (3%)
          Theme(s):        Infrastructure services for private sector development (23% - P); Other urban development
                           (22% - P); Other financial and private sector development (22% - P); Regulation and
                           competition policy (22% - P); Urban services and housing for the poor (11% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:      ICR Review                        Group:
                                             Coordinator:
Istvan Dobozi              Ramachandra Jammi Christopher David                IEGPS1
                                             Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  In the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the objective of the project was “to reduce system losses and improve
revenue collection in the electricity distribution companies in Mongolia". However, in both the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) and Project Paper for Additional Financing (AF), the objective of the project was stated as: (1) to
reduce electricity system losses and improve service reliability in electricity distribution in Ulaanbaatar and selected
aimag (province) centers; (2) to improve revenue collections in the electricity distribution system; and (3) to build up
institutional capacity to move toward a more commercial and market-based energy sector. Following IEG guidelines,
this ICR Review assesses the Project based on the objectives stated in the DCA.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  Component 1: Ulaanbaatar Electricity Distribution (US$23 million at appraisal, US$27.1 million actual). The
component aimed at reducing losses and improving revenue collection, the efficiency and reliability of the electricity
distribution system in the capital city, and to commercialize the operations of the Ulaanbaatar Electricity Distribution
Office (UBEDN). It financed: (a) purchase and installation/replacement of meters; (b) re-conductoring bare conductors
in the low-voltage system with insulated wire; (c) installation and replacement of distribution transformers; (d)
mid-voltage step-up (6 kV to 10 kV) in the Domod I substation area; (e) purchase of hardware, software, technical
assistance (TA) and training to improve UBEDD's customer business procedures, especially meter reading, billing,
money collection and customer account management; (f) implementation of a public campaign on new customer
service initiatives and against power theft; (g) purchase of spare parts, safety equipment and measurement tools; (h)
training and TA on project management, power distribution company management, financial management, technical
skills and energy economics.

Component 2: Aimag Energy (US$13.2 million at appraisal, US$12.8 million actual). This component was aimed at
reducing system and financial losses in aimag electricity operations, along with improving the reliability of electricity
services to meet the basic needs of aimag centers’ population. Support included equipment and material for the
highest priority areas of network rehabilitation, installation of new electricity meters in apartments and commercial
buildings, training in network design, proper installation of equipment, power system loss reduction and basic financial
management.

Component 3: TA for Regulatory Support and Financial Audits (US$0.8 million at appraisal, US$0.2 million actual).
The purpose of this component was to: (a) support the development of the Energy Regulatory Authority's institutional
capacity to implement and enforce the newly enacted Energy Law, develop any necessary subsidiary legislation, tariff
level and rate structure analysis, financial analysis for utility regulation, and transition to market- based electricity
systems including needed analytical tools; and (b) conduct annual audits under acceptable international accounting
standards of the Energy Authority's financial statements and the subject Energy Project's Financial Statements by an
independent external auditor in accordance with International Standards of Auditing over the life of the Project.

Under the AF approved on March 25, 2010, three components were added:
Component 4: UBEDN Investments (US$11.2 million at appraisal, US$12.5 million actual). The component focused
on carrying out critical investments in UBEDN’s distribution network to: (a) replace obsolete switchgear; (b) provide
additional substation capacity and flexible switching substations to enhance the distribution network; and (c) supply
the expected new loads and improve system reliability. Some urgent maintenance equipment to be procured such as
a 35kV mobile cable testing equipment and a cable pulling machine to facilitate cable-laying.

Component 5: Development of Distribution Network Planning (US$1.0 million at appraisal, US$0.9 million actual). The
component focused on developing the planning and design capabilities of UBEDN and the Central Regional Electricity
Transmission Company (CRETC) in order to prepare more efficient and structured investment plans for the
distribution and transmission networks in Ulaanbaatar and the Central Region. UBEDN and CRETC would carry out
planning studies using a new state-of-the art software financed by the project. In addition, external consultants would
carry out (a) a condition assessment of the Central Region's 6kV, 10kV and 35kV distribution substations and the
extensive cable and overhead line network to determine all rehabilitation and replacement needs; (b) estimation of
load growth in various parts of the city and development of a reliable load forecast for each sub-area of the city; (c)
development of cost-of-supply including long-run marginal cost assessments; and (d) preparation of appropriate
design standards to replace former Soviet Union standards that were still in use.

Component 6: Capacity Building for UBEDN and Project Management (US$0.3 million at appraisal, US$0.3 million
actual). The component was designed to sustain and enhance the financial and operational improvements achieved to
date through (a) improving the capability of UBEDN to use the new software tools being introduced under Component
5; and (b) training programs to improve the project management capabilities and accounting practices of the Ministry
of Mineral Resources and Energy to further develop the loss reduction exercises carried out under the original part of
the Project.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 The Project was restructured three times (on 12/31/2006,12/31/2008, 12/31/2009), and the Closing Date was
extended four times (on 12/31/2006, 12/31/2008,12/31/2009, 09/30/2010) to close on 09/30/2013, with an overall
delay of almost seven years. Project cost at completion was higher by US$4.5 million (8%) with respect to the
appraisal estimate. Under the original Project, the Borrower's financing was 25% less than the appraisal estimate.
However, under the AF, Borrower financing significantly exceeded the estimated amount (US$2.10 vs. US$0.50
million).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were highly relevant to the past and current country and sector contexts.
Mongolia's district heat and electric power system is a critical part of the country's basic infrastructure. The grossly
inefficient system--characterized by rampant shortages (as well as associated load shedding and unscheduled
outages), losses and poor quality of service--has been a binding constraint on economic and social development. If
anything, the Project's objectives of ensuring adequate and reliable energy supply have become even more relevant
lately with the rapid increase in electricity demand due to vigorous mining development, urbanization, and population
growth. Clearly, sustainable technical improvements require further progress in the sector's financial and institutional
performance - the original PDOs have kept their relevance up to the present.

Project Relevance with Government's goals: The Project supported Government of Mongolia's (GOM) national
strategy of improving the reliability, quality, cost-effectiveness, and financial viability of the electricity sector. Before
the Project started, the GOM had already made some progress in laying the foundation for market-based sector
operations by abandoning the centrally planned sector structure, developing public/private companies, and adopting
(in 2001) an Energy Law which separated policy, regulatory and operational roles, and created incentives for private
sector participation.

Project Relevance with the Bank's country strategy: The Bank involvement with TA and physical investments was
aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (dated June 1998) by directly supporting one of its primary objectives: to
develop and upgrade the infrastructure to support private sector growth and market development as well as improve
the living conditions of the poor by enhancing access to basic services, particularly energy. The Bank's support was
considered key to completing the transformation and reform of the power sector. Moreover, the Project objectives
have remained consistent with the current Country Partnership Strategy for FY2013-2017, wherein one of the key
pillars is to address social vulnerabilities through improved access to basic infrastructure services and better service
delivery.

IEG rates the Relevance of Objectives as High.

 b. Relevance of Design:
The original Project scope adopted an overall balanced combination of physical components, commercialization
measures, institutional and capacity building arrangements that were overall consistent with the Project objectives.
The design reflected lessons learned, including the importance of focusing on one primary beneficiary and one
subsector (electricity). The PDOs were realistic and the three components were relevant to achieving them.

In 2010, the Project Paper for AF introduced three additional components. According to the ICR, "the key investment
component, carrying out critical investments to augment UBEDN's distribution network, was somewhat loosely linked
to the original PDO, but the Additional Financing was nonetheless justified given the urgency of making critical
improvements," and the new components served this objective.

The Project design also endeavored to link poverty reduction and social impact through provision of energy supply to
isolated rural areas and included a strategy to establish a lifeline tariff system for low-income households, although
the modalities for implementation were not clearly spelled out in the PAD.

IEG rates Relevance of Design as Substantial.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Objective 1: to reduce electricity system losses and improve service reliability in electricity distribution in
Ulaanbaatar and selected aimag centers.

Outputs:

The Project involved upgrading 758 substations, establishing 119 new substations, renovating 1,587 km of
low-voltage lines and installing 119,075 meters as well as 23,762 meter boxes, all of which contributed to the
reduction of losses.

Outcomes:

Loss reduction:achievement of this PDO is captured through PDO Indicator No. 1 (system loss reduction in UBEDN)
and Indicator No. 3 (system loss reduction for selected aimags). At appraisal, electricity losses stood at 31% in
UBEDN's distribution system and were well over 40% in several aimag systems. At Project completion, six out of ten
companies had surpassed their loss reduction targets. For the remaining four, losses were reduced to below 25% of
the original elevated levels ranging from 34% to 46%. According to the ICR, Project benefits in terms of loss reduction
could have been greater if the utilities had not expanded to more distant soums (aimag subdivisions) thereby
increasing distance-dependent technical losses.

Improving reliability at UBEDN: achievement of this PDO is measured through intermediate reliability indicators 3 and
4 (SAIDI and SAIFI). SAIDI (Service Average Interruption Duration Index) dropped significantly from a baseline of
4,204.7 minutes annually to 397.5 minutes, thus surpassing the target of 600 minutes. SAIFI (Service Average
Interruption Frequency Index) dropped from a baseline of 28.4 times per year to 7.16 times per year.

Improving reliability at Project aimags: There were no outcome or intermediate indicators established to measure this
aspect of the PDO. Anecdotal evidence from the beneficiary survey suggests a generally positive qualitative impact.

IEG Rating: Substantial.
Objective 2:

Outputs:

Under the Project, 119,075 meters and 23,762 boxes of meters were installed, leading to a significant rise in revenue
collection.

Outcomes:

Achievement of this PDO is captured through PDO Indicators Nos. 2 (receivables collection improvement for UBEDN)
and 4 (receivables collection improvement for selected aimags). At Project completion, the billing collection days at
UBEDN had been reduced from 100 in 2004 to 35, exceeding the target of 45 days. Five out of nine aimags achieved
the target for Indicator No. 4, while the other four recorded a significant reduction in collection days without meeting
the targets. The Project played an instrumental role in the financial recovery of UBEDN by (a) reducing the company's
cost of supply through loss reduction; and (b) providing much-needed liquidity through increased revenue collection
and reduction of accounts receivables. As a result, UBEDN reached full cost recovery for the first time in 2008.
However, the extent to which this improvement was solely the Project's outcome cannot be stated with full certainty
due to external factors that could have also impacted on the financial performance (e.g. improvements in the local
financial market allowing long-term debt financing on more favorable terms than before).

IEG Rating: Substantial.

Objective 3: to build up institutional capacity to move toward a more commercial and market -based energy sector.

Outputs:

The Project provided TA and training for (i) the development of power market rules and tariff structures for the Energy
Regulatory Office staff; and (ii) preparation of annual audits under acceptable international accounting standards of
the Energy Authority's financial statements as well as the Project's financial statements.


Outcomes:

The Project's capacity building results were moderately satisfactory and while the studies were of satisfactory quality,
only a small portion of the recommendations were actually adopted (e.g., merit order dispatch). Key recommendations
for tariff reform, including lifeline tariffs, and transition to a market-based energy sector were not implemented mostly
for political reasons.

IEG Rating: Modest. I

 5. Efficiency:
  Economic Analysis. At completion, the investments under the original Loan yielded an economic internal rate of
return (EIRR) of 32.8% and economic net present value (ENPP) of US$102.1 million, compared with 30.3% and
US$10.9 million, respectively, at appraisal. The combined Project (AF included) generated EIRR of 34% and ENPV of
US$127.0 million (compared with US$67.7 million at appraisal). The higher ENPP at completion is due primarily to the
enhanced impact of loss reduction achieved by UBEDN over a decade of accelerated power demand growth.
Financial Analysis. At completion, the investments under the original Loan yielded a financial internal rate of return
(FIRR) of 27.48 and financial net present value (FNPP) of US$102.7 million, compared with 21.2% and US$5.3
million, respectively, at appraisal. The combined Project (AF included) generated FIRR of 20.2% and FNPV of US$4.5
million (compared with US$3.0 million at appraisal).

Implementation Effectiveness. Three Project was restructured and extended three times, leading to a 7-year delay in
its completion. Reasons for the restructuring and related implementation delays included: inclusion of new activities
under AF (causing a 3-year extension of the Credit Closing Date); delayed Project commencement due to insufficient
readiness, including inadequate counterpart financing; frequent reorganization within the GOM (including the Energy
Authority); inter-agency coordination difficulties within the GOM concerning procurement procedures and inefficient
procurement; and poor consultant performance under the commercial operation system sub-component. As a result of
considerable implementation delays.

IEG Rating: Modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :
                                  Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        Yes                                      30.3%                                    36.2%

     ICR estimate                     Yes                                       34%                                     39.8%
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the Project objectives is high and that of the design substantial. The Project made substantial
contributions to the reduction of electricity system losses, improved service reliability in electricity distribution as well
as enhanced revenue collection by UBEDN, albeit it performed less well on achieving reliability improvements at the
aimag level. The Project made only a modest contribution toward a market-based, financially sustainable electricity
sector due largely to a lack of GOM political will to carry out the tariff reform. Given the extremely long Project
implementation time (even when accounting for the time needed for new activities under AF), efficiency was modest.
Therefore, IEG rates the overall development outcome of the Project as Moderately Satisfactory .
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Risks to loss reduction and collection improvement from the Project are low. Given the quality of installed
equipment, there are few risks with regard to the physical sustainability of the rehabilitated lines and installed meters.
Company staff was trained to maintain equipment. Revenue collection was improved under the Project through a
series of measures such as accurate meter reading and loss identification, customer awareness campaign, etc.
which, to some extent, have positively changed customers' behavior in paying for electricity. Risks with respect to
building institutional capacity is moderate given ERA's (Regulator) underperformance on this score during Project
implementation. In particular, the lack of tariff reform continues to pose some risks to the financial health of the sector.
On the positive side, after Project completion, the Regulator has requested the provision of additional TA from the
Bank with the aim of continuing the transition to a market-based electricity sector, including cost-reflective tariffs.
Based on these considerations, IEG rates the risk to development outcome rating as moderate.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
       The Project design took into account GOM's and the Bank's key priorities in the power sector. While the
Bank correctly identified the risk of implementation delays, the ability to mitigate them was underestimated. The
most significant design shortcoming concerned Component 2 (aimag center electricity rehabilitation and loss
reduction).The original Project aimed to assist 12-14 aimag centers, which was fairly over-ambitious given limited
Project resources. TA to the sector regulator (e.g., regarding implementation arrangements for lifeline tariffs)
could have been more focused and realistic. Clearly, the Project design overestimated GOM's political willingness
to undertake a serious tariff reform, especially that during Project preparation, there were strong signs for the lack
of commitment to move on tariffs and market-based reforms in general. Similarly, the availability of counterpart
funding was overestimated for the initial years of Project implementation. Based on these considerations.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Project implementation was properly tracked (18 implementation status reports over 12 years). The financial
management and procurement functions were provided by field-based staff, including continuous training to local
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staff on procurement, disbursements, safeguards and M&E. Generally, the
Bank team was reasonably flexible and responsive. However, especially in the early stages of the Project,
performance ratings--most notably, implementation progress--were consistently over-optimistic (almost always
"satisfactory" no matter how serious problems were encountered), not reflecting the considerable implementation
delays and associated difficulties (e.g., inadequate counterpart funding, inefficient procurement procedures,
uncoordinated GOM actions). A Mid-Term Review was conducted to assess the recurrent delays in
implementation and identify measures to improve UBEDN's technical, financial and commercial performance.
The AF design tried to incorporate lessons learned from implementation. However, the AF Project Paper could
have strengthened the M&E framework (see section 10 on M&E below). Finally, supervision of ERA's
responsiveness to Bank's policy recommendations was not adequate, therefore ERA is still in need of Bank
support for the transition to a market-based electricity sector to replace the uncompetitive single-buyer system.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    While the GOM was committed to the Project during both preparation and implementation, it substantially
contributed to implementation delays, especially in the first stages of the Project, through inadequate counterpart
funding and inefficient implementation arrangements, including procurement and disbursement. Later on, GOM
performance improved considerably. However, with respect to broader sector reforms (especially, tariffs), GOM
performance was generally unsatisfactory. Regarding the AF, the GOM (specifically, the Ministry of Mineral
Resources and Energy) can be credited with recognizing, in 2008, the need to tackle the emergency in electricity
capacity expansion by requesting additional Bank assistance through an AF credit. The 3-year extension
associated with AF was important to further strengthen UBEDN's financial standing, train staff at the National
Power Transmission Company on investment planning, design as well as operation and maintenance of the power
system.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
     Overall, the PIU provided effective support to the Project and communicated and cooperated well with the
interested ministries (the PIU was hosted within the Ministry of Energy), UBEDN, aimags and the Bank team.
Initially, the PIU was not well versed in procurement and financial management skills, but its performance greatly
improved after receiving training. The PIU was instrumental in ensuring that the Bank's environmental safeguards
were satisfactorily complied with.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E framework design was largely sound, with the measurable outcome and intermediate results indicators
logically linked to PDOs 1 and 2. For example, the indicators of network loss percentage and receivable collection
days were appropriately selected as they are strongly linked to the above PDOs. Important indicators on system
reliability (SAIDI and SAIFI or System Average Interruption Duration/Frequency Indexes) were adopted only in 2004,
after three years of actual implementation. However, there were no indicators to monitor progress on system reliability
in aimags (only a measure of weighted system loss was used), As regards capacity building monitoring, no indicators
were provided to track progress. Two intermediate outcomes indicators were presented for capacity building (number
of staff trained and development proposals prepared systematically), but they were not clearly linked to a
development outcome, particularly because all three PDOs included capacity building activities. The indicators under
PDO 3 did not capture the more qualitative outcome of strengthened institutional capacity towards a more commercial
and market-oriented electricity sector. Under the AF, the indicator for additional access was added, but without a clear
connection with the PDOs. At the AF in 2009, the Project missed a good opportunity to strengthen and fine-tune the
M&E framework. The Project Paper should have updated the Results Framework with clear Key Performance
Indicators and Intermediate Outcome Indicators, with baselines, annual targets and end-of-Project targets; instead it
used the old log frame from 2001.

b. M&E Implementation:
   The PIU regularly collected data and updated the M&E framework systematically. However, the indicators of
technical losses as well as SAIDI and SAIFI were not monitored for aimags due to the weak capacity if aimag utlilites,
according to the ICR. As noted above, the Results Framework was not overhauled as much as needed during the AF.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR claims that the M&E framework was used to monitor implementation progress. For example, financial
indicators for UBEDN were used to track progress in financial performance and make adjustments to comply with the
financial covenants of the Development Credit Agreement.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as category B under the Bank’s environmental and social safeguards policies because of its
moderate environmental impacts, and Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) was triggered. The AF did not raise new
safeguard issues, and therefore category B was retained. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared
and properly disclosed. EMP implementation was regularly monitored by the PIU and supervised by the Bank team.
According to the ICR, no significant issues were encountered during EMP implementation.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Both financial management reviews and audits identified shortcomings, mostly in the areas of internal controls, filing
and documentation as well as operating account reconciliation. According to the ICR, the findings were followed up
and the specified shortcomings were resolved satisfactorily.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
N/A

 d. Other:
Procurement. Although initially there were some issues with procurement and contracting procedures causing
implementation delays, these were satisfactorily resolved later on. According to the ICR, the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines and the modalities specified in the legal agreements were complied with.


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Realistic capacity assessment is crucial during Project preparation at all levels of implementation ranging from
government agencies through implementing agencies to the grassroots levels. In this Project, the insufficient
capacity assessment across the board substantially contributed to the lengthy Project implementation (e.g., overly
complex contracts were applied that exceeded contract management capability; implementation capacity of aimags
were systematically overrated and the availability of counterpart funding was not properly verified upfront).

Early discussions between the government agencies and the Bank are essential in defining the responsible
framework and approval authorities. Some tentativeness in this respect contributed to misunderstandings between
the parties and implementation delays in this project

Technical Assistance targeting sector reforms should be carefully selected and sequenced reflecting the (i)
country’s initial standing along the evolutionary continuum of reform measures; and (ii) government’s political
readiness to carry out sensitive sector reforms. This Project, especially with respect to tariff reforms, failed to fully
factor in both constraints under the TA component.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

Overall, the ICR provided an objective analysis of the Project and a candid review of the issues, including Bank
performance. However, the assessment of the unusually long implementation delay, including its specific drivers,
could have been more thorough and detailed, especially for the purpose of the lessons learned.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
