Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
asprt No. 7080-ALG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
November 21,1988
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Maghreb Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



CURRENCY EQUNS
CUrr4.cy Ua,                            A *cwaa Dias  (DA)
118*1.00                                D A 6.5
DA 1.00                 *               US$0.15
-%M= AND MEASURE
The metric system is used throughout this report.
BADR's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         African Development Bank
BAD         Banque Algerienne de Developpement
BADR        Banque de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural
BNA         Banque Nationale d'Algerie
DAS         Domaines Agricoles Socialistes
EAC         Exploitations Agricoles Collectives (Agricultural Collective Farms)
MAF         Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MIS         Management Information System
MhLT        Medium- and Long-Term (Loans)
PPF         Project Preparation Facility



D r ~    ~     ~     ~                            -      r --
FMOl CUIEI U1 OINLY
STAFF APPRAIAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDff PROJEC
Lowa s Proieet Sumw_
bwOfowrf:                Danque de V'Agriculture et du Diveloppe_ent Rural (AMD).
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Awunhlt:                 US$110 million equivalent.
Terms:                   15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description:     The Project would aim at strengthening BADR, the
borrower and executing agency, to serve a restructured
agricultural sector involving the breakup of state farms
into 25,000 autonomous farms and provide financing for
equipment for agriculture. It would establish with
Government an appropriate framework to ensure BADR's
long-term financial viability. The Project would:
(i) increase sub-borrowers' access to medium and
long-term credit for on-farm and agro-industrial
investment goods; (ii) improve professional and
technical expertise of BADR staff through a training
program: (iii) improve BADR management through
installation of a management information system (MIS);
(iv) establish a framework for ensuring BADR's future
financial viability; and (v) provide future direction
for BADR development by establishing a medium-term plan
of development.
Riks:                    To reduce the risk that inadequate progress is made in
institution building, a Project Preparation Facility was
approved in March 1987 to establish Master Plans for
training and for the MIS for implementation during the
Project. Second, with substantial reforms toward
liberalizaEion and deregulation of the banking and
agricultural sectors currently underway, BADR could face
some unusual transitional risks which could affect its
financial situation. Arrangements have therefore been
introduced under the Project to safeguard BADR's
financial status during this transition period. A third
risk is that implementation may be slow because a number
of agencies involved in procurement are unfamiliar with
Bank procedures. This risk has been reduced by
providing for close consultation between the agencies
and the Bank during the appraisal process. Close Bank
supervision will, however, still be required prior to
and shortly after Project effectiveness.
1331K
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Barik wuhorization.



-~ --                      *                             t     A       t    --        a
- (ii) -
Estiae PZoist CWb
Local        Fore ign    Total
US* million
MMDE Ladin  Progra
On-Farm lwrnot ments                             158.5          254.7     413.5
Agro-ldustry                                     35.9           3.59      71.7
SUB-TOTAL B  e Cost:                         194.7          290.5     485.2
Institutional DeveloDment
- Training                                         0.2            2.5       2.7
- HIS                                              -             19.0      19.0
- Technical Assistance                             -              0.2       0.2
SUB-TOTAL Base Cost:                           0.2           21.7      21.9
TOTAL Base Cost                              194.9          312.2     507.1
- Price Contingencies                              30.4          31.7      62.1
GRAND TOTAL                               225 335
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign    Total
---------  US$ million --------
- IBRD                                                          110.0     110.0
- Export-Import Bank of Japan                                   110.0     110.0
- BADR                                            34.0          124.0     158.0
- Investors                                      191.0                    191.0
TOTAL
Estimated Disbursements:
Fiscal Year
1989      1990      1991       1992    1993
-------------…US$ million----------------
- Annual                              4.0      25.0       35.0      30.0    16.0
- Cumulative                          4.0      29.0       64.0      94.0   110.0
Rate of Return:
- Financial (on individual investments)      23-39Z
- Economic  ("                         )     10-47
Map:   IBRD 19976
3 3 1 I 1



=~~~~-v -                                       ~1----- 
STAFF APPRASAL REPORT
DEMOCRLATC AND YPOPULAR REPUBIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICLTLURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Poe No.
L     ITRODUCTION  ..............................................                 I
DL    BACKGROU.ND          ............................................           1
A.   General   . ...........................................               1
B.   Place of Agriculture in the Economy .....          .............      2
C.   Agricultural Performance and Government Strategy   .....              3
D.   Institutional Credit for Agriculture .....          ............      4
E.   Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy & Performance
Under Previous Projects   .        ..............................    5
. TIHE BANKING SECTOR..                                                           5
IV.   THE BANQUE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL.   7
V.  TIHE PROJECT .................                                               11
A.   Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement                11
B. Summary Project Description ....                                       11
C. Detailed Features                  . . .12
Investment Credit..                                           12
*  Institutional Development..                                      13
D.  Project Cost Estimates                       .. .13
E. Project Financing                    . . .14
F. Procurement .... . ......                      .      .15
G. Disbursement                        . . .17
VI  PROJIECT IMPLEMENTATION ......19
A. Subloans Made by BADR .19
B.   BADR Institution-Building Activities .21
C.   BADR's Future Financial Structure and Performance                    22
D. Reporting .24
E. Accounts and Audits .24
F. Environmental Impact..                                                 24
This report is based on the findings of missions which visited Algeria in
February, July, and October 1987 composed of Ms. Effron and Messrs. Blanchi,
Gais, Drabek (Bank), Ms. Sonn (FAO/CP), and Mr. Bartoli (Consultant).
83613 



Tahh oa CiAtemts (oot'd.)
YIL    PR-D>UCOA., IARtrETdcii AoND P....         ....................       25
B.   Production ..........................................           2S
C.    Markets .....................................................  26
D.   Prices       ....... ....... .............        a ..................  27
VIIL  9E!EFTIS ANI) JUSTEFICATION  ............................              27
A. Financial Analysis   .                   .27
B. Economic Analysis    ..31
C. Risks.                                                            32
[X.  AGREEMENITS AND RPCOMMENDATIONS    ...33
SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 1 :   Total Project Cost by Year, 1989-1990 .35
Table 2 : Total Project Cost            ..                                   36
Table 3 :   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                              37
Table 4 :  National Production 1985/86 and Incremental Production
from the Project .38
Table 5 :   Financial Rates of Return to Farmers on Subprojects              39
ANNEXES
Annex 1 :   Sectoral Issues Relevant to Agricultural Credit                  40
Annex 2 :   Performance Under Previous Bank Projects in the
Agricultural Sector .44
Annex 3 :   La Banque de l'Agriculture et Developpement Rural                45
Annex 4 :   Chart of Flow of Funds and Equipment.                            63
Annex 5 :   Reporting Format for Semi-annual Reports.                        64
Annex 6 :   Financial Projections for BADR, 1987-1991 .69
Annex 7 :   List of Annexes in Implementation Volume
a.d working papers available in Project File                  78
MAP   IBRD 19976
339II



AFF APPIRASAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULA REPUBUC OF ALER
AGRICULTURAL CREDff PROJECT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Daqe de  'Agriculture et du Dlvelopp_mnt Rural (MM1),
Algeria's only agricultural credit bank, ba requested Bank asistan ce to
finance an Agricultural Credit Project. The proposed Loan would be the first
by the Dank to BADR. It would support Governient's objectives for
agricultural development by: (a) channelling credit to private small-scale
farmers and groups of farmers for edium- and long-term investments _n on-farm
activities; (b) promoting agricultural productivity by providing equipment and
machinerv; and (c) strengthening BADR's ability to provide credit to farmers
and to ensure its financial autonomy.
1.02     The Project would be carried out during a transitional period in
Algeria both in the agricultural sector, which has been fundamentally
restructured by dismantling the state farms and distributing the land to
groups of farmers (para 2.07), and in the banking sector, which has also been
substantially reformed to introduce increased autonomy (para 3.03). Because
of these changes, which are ultimately expected to have a highly positive
impact on agricultural development in Algeria, BADR will be operating in an
unstable environment during the period of the proposed Project; it is
nevertheless an opportune time for Bank involvement, as the Project would be
financing key activities that would provide for institutional reform and
training of BADR staff, as well as providing an opportunity to reach
agreements that would ensure a healthy financial environment for BADR. The
Project could be the first in a series of lines of credit that would
contr4oute, over time, to BADR's long-term development to provide credit for
agriculture, making essential contributions to agricultural development in
Algeria.
1.03     The Project was prepared by the Borrower, after discussing with the
Dank the required elements, and a preparation report was presented to the Bank
in early 1987. This was followed by Bank preparation missions in February and
July 1987 and in October 1987, the Project was appraised by a mission composed
of Me. Effron and Messrs. Blanchi and Drabek (Bank) and Ms. Sonn (FAO/CP).
EL BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01     At Independence in 1962, Algeria was predominantly an agrarian
society with a limited industrial base. The basis of independent Algeria's
economic policy was the promotion of industrialization and reduced dependence



-2-
on foreign investments and imports. The major instruments used in the pursuit
of this strategy were the application of ceatralised planning to the econoom,
reliance on public enterprises in industry and services, an agrarian
;evolution which included land reform with the erertion of socialist soctor
farm, and a shift from the export orientation developed during the colonial
perio  to meting demstic food requirements. The strategy, fueled by the
development of hydrocarbons, net with some success; the economy grow at an
impressive 6S p.a. during the 1970s, compared to 3S p.a. for middle income
countries  s a group.  This and other impressive achievemnts were, however,
accompanied by serious disequilibria. In the early 1980s, Government moved to
eliminate these disequilibria with a shift in economic policy that emphasix*4
improved management and efficiency of the economy. This became all the 5or
important as most economic indicators fell sharply in response to the 1986
oil-shock. Growth slowed from 3.9S p.a. over the 1980-85 period to 1.0 in
1986, to 1.32 in 1987 and an estimated 0.8S in 1988.
2.02     Responding to the oil-shock and the new policy direction, Government
has initiated a series of fundamental reforms cutting across most sectors of
the economy. These reforms aim to decentralize the economy, make it more
responsive and market oriented, increase its efficiency essentially through
better utilization of existing capacity, and place greater reliance on the
smrAll but growing private sector. In the agricultural sector Government has
Initiated profound reforms, notably the breakup of the state farm sector which
accounted for about 60-702 of the agricultural potential of the country.
2.03     For the near term, Algeria's development prospects are still heavily
dependent on the growth and revenues of hydrocarbon exports. Other important
elements include, however, the distribution of fixed investments and
improvements in sectoral efficiency, particularly in agriculture, which will
help determine the extent of Algeria's dependence on food imports.
B. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
2.04     Agriculture remains one of the dominant sectors in the economy.
About half of Algeria's population of 22 million live .n rural areas and about
25S of the labor force is still employed in agriculture. Because of
unattractive prospects iu the agricultural sector in the past, there has beo
considerable rural to urban migration since Independence with a result that
rural population growth has been only about 1.2S.  While agriculture has
benefitted from Government's investment program, it has done so on a declining
basis, from 251 of total investments in the late 1960s to about 61 more
recently. For this and other reasons, for example, the dramatic increase in
importance of the oil and gas sectors, the share of agriculture in aggregate
value added has declined from about 13% in the early 1960s to about 7S in the
mid-1970s. Since then, it has remained constant at around 71, showing that
agriculture has grown at the same relatively rapid rate as the rest of the
economy. Indeed, over the 1964-86 period the gross value of agriculture in
constant 1986 terms has grown at about 2.8% p.a., less than the growth rate of
the population but since 1977, at 5.01 p.a., which, by most indicators, is a
good performance.
33911



C. AA Pwoo ad    m9                                     x 1)
2.05     The growth of the agricultural sector in Algeria over the past twenty
years, at about 2.81 p.a., ha  been insufficient to kep pace with growing
dema.  Nwt of the grOvth C= be ft riVbUte  tA the, sit out of lower va1lu
crops into the higher value fruits and vegetables whose prices increased
rapidly after the liberalization of their marketing in the early 1980.. At
the same time, however, the production of staple foods, grains and pulses, has
stagnated. As a result of the increas in per capita incomes (3.5% p.a.) and
the growing population, the food gap has widened significantly. Algeria now
imports up to 70J of its baic food requirements, compared to only about 25S
in the 1966-1970 period. Yields of most principal crops have stagnated, with
the exception of certain fruits and vegetables, and rem_in 30 - 501 lower than
neighboring countries with similar climatic and soil conditions.
2.06     This indifferent performance can be attributed mainly to the
dominance of the socialist farming system which prevailed in Algeria until
recently. Until 1987, the socialist, state-owned and run, farming sector
occupiee the most fertile land in the country and had priority treatment in
the distribution of inputs, equipment and credit.. The Domaines Agricoles
Socialistes (DAS) occupied about 321 of the arable area (2.4 million out of
7.5 million ha total) and cultivated about 43X of the total cultivated area
(1.8 million ha out of 4.3 million ha total). They produced 40 to 501 of the
major food crops, wheat and barley, and 20 to 301 of fruits and vegetables.
Their yields were consistently less than, or in the case of wheat and barley,
at best slightly higher than those of private farmers, who until a few years
ago had minimum access to improved seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, farm
equipment and institutional credit.  The DAS had almost continuous operating
deficits and were a large drain on Government resources.  The private,
small-scale farming sector, by contrast, has performed considerably better in
spite of its handicaps. Average yields have been higher for most crops and
private farmers have been particularly responsive to attractive opportunities,
such as in the poultry sub-sector, fruit and vegetable production, and land
development in the southern part of the country.
2.07     To improve agricultural performance, Government has, since 1980,
increasingly liberalized the agricultural sector.  It reduced its own
involvement in marketing of certain crops (fruits and vegetables), and allowed
on a limited scale private traders of most inputs and spare parts for
equipment. It has gradually increased the access of private farmers to
inputs, equipment and credit at the same time that it introduced a series of
reforms to improve the DAS performance. Finally, in 1987 Government began a
major transformation of the socialist sector by dismantling the DAS and
establishing private voluntary groups of farmers (EAC = exploitation agricole
collective) which are autonomous and fr-e from Government management. By June
1988 about 20,000 EACs and 2,300 EAIs (exploitation agricole individuelle) had
been established. These groups are completely responcible for their
operations and financial consequences, retain profits or make up losses, are
owners of all infrastructure and equipment associated with the farm and, with
usufruct rights to the land, will be able to sell or bequeath those rights
after a period of five years. Government faces a major challenge to ensure
that the newly formed EACs have sufficient access to inputs, equipment and
credit and to provide services such as research and extension that respond to
the needs of the restructured sector (for a discussion of input supply,
extension and research, see Annex 1.)
33f#I



-4-
2.08     To channel more resourcoe to the agricultural sector in general and
to private farmer in particular, the Banque de l'Agriculture et du
Diveloppement Rural (DADR) was established in 1982. It is a full service bank
with the dominant role in agricultural banking activities. It competes with
other banks for clients in agro-industry and other rural development
activities (para. 3.02). With recent changes in the Banking Law (para. 3.03)
and the structure of the socialist sector, BADR has a key role to play in the
development of the agricultural sector.
D. Wlut itulMal Credit for Aarioutwe
2.09     Until 1988, virtually all agricultural credit pasbing through the
banking system went to the socialist farms, with small amounts (12-151 of
medium and long-term lending and 2-5S of short term lending) going to the
privq.: 7armers (individual, small-scale farmers). Since BADR's creation in
1982 a.-. mntil 1987, lending to the DAS was automatic. BADR served as a
channel fir Treasury funds and decisions on loan amounts and purposes were
made at. central level between the Ministries of Agriculture and Planning.
Loans to the DAS were neither appraised nor closely monitored by BADR because
they were, in &ny case, guaranteed by Government. BADR thus had largely an
administrative role of distributing Treasury funds. As of 1987, with the
introduction of both banking reform (para 3.03) and agricultural reform (para
2.07), this situation has changed dramatically, and BADR now musl. lend to
agriculture entirely at its own risk, and must estimate the likely return and
risk on units that are just now being established. It must change the nature
of its operation at a time when the agricultural sector is changing the nature
of its operation. BADR faces enormous pressure to ensure that the new EACs
have sufficient means to operate effectively; without this the success of the
agricultural reform would be jeopardized.
2.10     In spite of the dominance of the socialist sector in BADR's
activities, BADR has been making an effort over th, past five years to channel
more credit to the private farmers, so that the number of farmers having
access to credit has grown at a fast pace, from 9,200 to about 50,000 in
1986. While this is an impressive increase, it represents a small fraction of
their total number, estimated at 800,000 to one million. Much can be done to
improve access of private farmers to institutional credit, although
constraints exist to the pace of BADR's expansion, especially in light of its
new mandate to appraise and le-d at its own risk to the newly formed groups of
farmers.
2.11     This first credit project has been designed to respond to these
challenges, by providing BADR with financial resources and, more importantly,
by providing the means to develop the institutional capacity and human
resources needed to carry out its mandate.
2.12     A number of other issues in the agricultural sector, regarding input
distribution, extension and research, as well as credit for agriculture are
discussed in Annex 1.
323*1



-5-
L  BDy  Agsbcitwa Sbector Sbteti   PFWinM -=e
undew Proviot Project. (Anng 2)
2.13     Link Group lending for agriculture in Algeria startod in 1974, and to
date five projects have been approved for a total of US$166 million of Bank
fuos.  These include the Technical Assistance/Ruzal Dew lopmeat Pj.oct  (Loa
1159-AL), the Heat Industry Project (Loan 1739-AL), the Uas Cheliff Irrigation
Project (Loan 1802-AL), the Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan 2809-AL), and the
Irrigation Engineering Project (Loan 2978-AL).  Perfor mae under tbhe
projects has been mixed, reflecting the institutional constraints in the
sector. Project Performance Audit Reports have been done on the first two and
a Project Completion Report on the la Cheliff Project. for details, see
Annex 2.
2.14     From 1980 until mid 1986, the Sank had limited involvement in
Algerian agriculture, with the exception of two ongoing projects. More
recently, however, the Bank has begun to develop a policy dialogue and a
lending program. One of the major themes is the importance of providing
adequate support to the newly created EACs at the same time as particular
efforts are made to promote the traditional, small-scale private individual
farmers. The roles of extension and research, input distribution and
marketing are important for ensuring the success of the reform and the
dynamism of the sector.
2.15     The lending program is being designed to address these issues by
including, inter alia, a research and extension project, designed to develop
an effective network of extension agents for both the small-scale farmers and
the newly formed farmer groups, coordinated with research designed to address
their agronomical problems; work in association with UNDP to improve and
expand fertilizer supply to farmers (part of a larger effort to improve input
distribution in general, which includes work by the EEC on seed and pesticide
supply and distribution and a proposed UNDP project to improve integrated pest
management). In addition, through the Cheliff Irrigation Project, effective
on January 28, 1988, the Irrigation Engineering Project, and the proposed
Mitidja Irrigation Project, the Bank is involved in supporting the
institutional framework for successful planning, operation and maintenance of
irrigation schemes.
2.16     The proposed credit project, channeling credit and strengthening
BADR, complements these efforts to provide improved agricultural services. It
would serve a dual function of providing badly needed foreign exchange to
import on-farm equipmcnt in short supply in Algeria and of providing a
framework and direction for BADR's institutional development at a formative
stage.  It is expected that if this project is successful in meeting its
objectives, it would become the first of a series of lines of credit designed
to strengthen institutional credit for agricultural and agro-industrial
development in Algeria.
m. THE BAiNKING SECTOOR
3.01     The banking system in Algeria consists of nine financial
institutions: a central bank, five primary commercial banks, one investment
bank, the Banque Algeriennne de Developpement (BAD), a savings institution and
a postal checking agency. At the end of 1985, total assets of the five
33,IZ



-6-
comercial banks equalled DA 213.5 billion (US$45.4 billion), and had grown
*inc* 1981 at an average anual rate of about 222.   D's assets represented
about 252 of this total.
3.02    A£1 banks in Algeria are Goveroumot onued, under the supervision of
the  iniastry of Finance. Prior to the 1986 banklig reform, the salient
features of this system were:
(a) centralised credit operations, with all long-term financing of public
enterprises from Treasury resources pasing through BAD tor
channelling through one of the five primary banks. '
Decision-m_king on investment financing was completely centralised in
the Government, with no responsibility or accountability by the banks
or the public enterprise;
(b)  medium- and short-term resources for the five primary banks came
primarily from: (i) deposits, primarily from public sector
enterprises, which have been required by fiat to keep deposits in the
bank having a monopoly in their sector; (ii) rediscount by the
Central Bank, subject to a quota system; (iii) money market funds,
from other banks; and (iv) overdraft facilities at the Central Bank;
(c) loans to public enterprises that were implicitly backed by the
Government. Unpaid loans were rolled over into short-term credit
and, as a result, banks often carried large overdrafts with the
Central Bank; no provisions were made for bad debts to public
enterprises;
(d) segmentation of the market; each of the five banks had a monopoly in
certain sectors, both for extending credit and handling deposit
accounts, effectively eliminating competition, except for private
sector clients;
(e) private sector clients accounted for a small proportion of either
deposits or loans in the primary banks. In 1985, 96S of the credit
outstanding was to the public sector. The proportion of demand
deposits from the public sector varied between 58S for CPA to 80S for
BADR.
(f) interest rates played virtually no role in attracting depositors or
allocating credit among investments as these decisions were made by
fiat in the case of public enterprise deposits and by central
planners based on sectoral, political and social criteria in the case
of investments. The interest rates may have affected the banking
activities of the private sector, but as noted above, these accounted
for 5 - 102 of the overall banking activities.
3.03     In 1986 Government passed a Banking Law involving fundamental changes
in this system, whose intention is to give responsibility for choosing,
appraising, and financing investments to public enterprises and to banks and
1, These are: Banque Nationale d'Alg6rie (BNA), Banque Exterieure d'Algerie
(BEA), Credit Populaire d'Algerie (CPA), Banque de Developpement Local
(BDL), and BADR.
, 3 1 I a



to place the credit risks on the banks. '  The implications for the public
sector as well as for the banking sector are considerable: (a) banks are now
required to develop competence in project and loan appraisal; (b) provisions
will have to be made for bad debts to public enterprises; (c) margins will
have to increase to allow for the costlier loan processing and for the cost of
bad debts; (d) some public sector enterprises will be refused loans and
decisions will have to be made to change prices, restructure the enterprise,
or subsidize through budget transfer payments; (e) public enterprises are now
able to choose the form of their assets and are no longer required to kef'p
deposits in a given bank. Thus banks have to compete for these resources that
were formerly deposited by fiat. The cost of resources is likely to increase
as a result, having a further direct impact on the level of interest rates
required to allow banks to cover their costs.
3.04     For the development of agriculture, BADR has a major role to play in
mobilizing resources to lend, in reaching the small-scale farmers and
investors, both as depositors and as borrowers, and in developing its
appraisal capacity for the potentially large demand from the new collective
farms. While the future is uncertain in this changing environment, the
reforms underway in the banking sector, as described above, are in the right
direction; it is therefore an opportune time for Bank involvement to assist
BADR in its critical needs for institution building and for adapting to the
new, more competitive environment in which it is now operating.
IV. THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOMMENT (Annex 3)
4.01     The Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (BADR) was created in
1982 to mobilize increased amounts of resources to finance the agricultural
sector. Details of BADR's organizational structure, size, operations and
financial performance are in Annex 3. The following paragraphs summarize the
more important features of its past situation and prospects for the future.
4.02     Size of operations and past lending program.  With about 200 branch
offices and 5,300 staff, BADR is the largest bank in Algeria in terms of
infrastructure and number of personnel. Since its first full year of
operation in 1983, lending amounts have grown steadily, from DA 25.8 billion
(US$5.5 billion) to DA 32.1 billion (US$6.8 billion) in 1986. Lending to
agriculture has accounted for about 50% of these amounts, and the public and
socialist sectors, comprised of marketing agencies and state farms, for 95% of
the total amounts. The types of agricultural investments financed and their
loan amounts are found in Table 1 (at the end of the text), and detailed
figures on total lending are in Table 1 of Annex 3. The number of small-scale
farmers using BADR's credit has grown since 1983, from about 9,200 to 50,000,
but this still represents only 5 or 62 of tb-ir population, and the numbers
are smaller still (at around 5,000) for small-scale farmers receiving M&LT
loans.
4.03     In the pre-1986 reform banking environment BADR mainly served as a
channel for Treasury funds to public sector enterprises, marketing agencies
1/ BADR has already put this law into practice by taking responsibility for
its lending activities.
S9St_



and DAS, with no analysis of financial profitability or of the borrowers.
While lending to agriculture has increased since 1982, from DA 7.9 billion
(US$1.7 billion) to DA 17.6 billion (US$3.7 billion) in 1986, and BADR's
deposits also grew steadily, most of the medium term resources and all of the
long term resources have come directly from Treasury. Their use was dictated
by the central planners in the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). In an effort to promote socialist farm
production, most of the Treasury funds were channelled to the DAS for
investments in equipment and land reclamation; the loans were guaranteed by
Government.
4.04     The result of this system has been that in the past BADR was a
passive conduit of funds, with no responsibility for the decisions on loans
and no risk of default. The debts of the socialist farms accumulated from
year to year and BADR accrued interest on the growing overdraft. At the end
of 1986, this overdraft had grown to about DA 15 billion (US$ 3.2 billion),
which represented about 30X of BADR's total assets.- At the same time,
lending to the private, small-scale farmers and investors, primarily at BADR's
own risks, consisted of marginal amounts and was based on MAF directives.
BADR took some initiative to lend from its own, non-Treasury resources but was
in any case constrained by the scarcity of agricultural equipment available
for purchase by the farmers (most of the equipment was already allocated,
through the process of centralized planning, to the socialist farms). With a
loosening of this central planning and an improved availability of
equipment,' BADR lending should in the near future be more effective.
4.05     Resources.  As a commercial bank, BADR's deposits are an important
resource, accounting for 45Z of total resources at the end of 1986 (see
Annex 3, Table 3 in Appendix 2 for details). Sight deposits from the public
sector account for over 801 of these deposits, and as BADR has had, until
1986, a monopoly on the agricultural public sector, has made little effort
until recently to mobilize resources from the private sector. The remainder
of short term resources have come from rediscounting at the Central Bank,
borrowing in the mor,ey market (liquidity of other banks), and when necessary,
use of an overdraft facility at the Central Bank. Medium term resources have
come from term deposits, accounting in 1986 for about 10 of total resources,
and to a limited extent (totalling about 3% of total resources), from foreign
borrowings. Long-term resources have come from Treasury funds. While
availability of domestic resources has not been a constraint in the past,
access to foreign exchange for use by BADR's clients (the importing agencies)
has been sharply limited by the Central Bank; this in
1/ With the restructuring of these farms their debts have been taken over by
Government and will be partially offset, over a fifteen year period, by
payments from the EACs for the equipment and structures they acquired.
Thus, during 1988, both the overdraft of overdue loans and current and
outstanding loans of the DAS were removed from BADR's books. The total of
these items, at the end of 1987, was about DA 22 billion (US$4.7 billion).
2/ Due in part to the financing from the Project and in part to a greater
commitment from Government to increase agricultural productivity.
339It



-9
turn has affected the amount of agricultural and agro-industrial equipment
available in the country. This project would directly address this constraint.
4.06     Interest Rates.    Current interest rates for lending vary from an
average of about 9X for agroindustrial investments (range 8.5% to 10.5S) to
sow 6S for agricultural investments. Some special Government programs are
supported at highly subsidized rates as low as 2.5X (land development in
backward regions, for example). Overall BADR's weighted average rate is
currently 7-8X. See Annex 3, for details. In the past interest rates played
virtually no role in allocating resources, as deposits from the public sector
enterprises and other resources to BADR were made by fiat and lending by BADR
has mainly been determined by central planners. This is now changing as the
economy is being liberalized. Government is now committed to increasing the
interest rate structure to reflect the opportunity cost of capital within the
medium term (over the next three years), and in this context the system for
establishing interest rates in the future is being revised to permit much
greater flexibility to banks, based on their costs of funds and of operations.
4.07     BADR's average spread between its cost of resources and its lending
rates has been between 2 to 3 percentage points, which has been adequate to
cover the transaction costs but is narrow in comparison to spreads in
neighboring countries for banks with similar mandates to lend to a large
population of small farmers. BADR has been able to function with this narrow
margin because of its particuilar situation as a conduit of Treasury funds.
4.08     BADR's operating results.  BADR has shown consistently high
profitability, the result of the special lending conditions for the soclalist
and public sectors. The large overdrafts of the socialist farms accrued
interest at higher rates than the cost of short-term resources to BADR and
thus were a continuous source of prof'It. In addition, BADR had no need to
provision for these loans, as they were fully guaranteed by Government;
provisions for bad debts covered lending only to the private sector, and thus
were quite limited. As a result, BADR showed a 20-35Z return on equity with
average interest rate spreads of only about 2.5Z. While these figures are
impressive, they have little significance in the current Algerian context,
because a domestic capital market does not yet exist. In addition, because of
the recent large changes in BADR's environment, its past profitability is not
a good indicator of its future performance. For a discussion of projected
future performance, see paras. 8.04-8.06.
4.09     BADR's future operations.  The recent reformis in both the banking and
agricultural sectors have major implications for BADR's daily operations as
well as for its near-term viability. BADR will be lending at its own risk to
private farmers and the new EACs, with no experience in analyzing viability of
farm and financing plans. In addition, the EACs will be managed by former DAS
members who, for the most part, are neither technicians nor experienced farm
managers. Thus in the early years of this restructuring, as the EAC farmers
learn to work together and to manage their operations, furtter adjustments in
the agricultural sector are likely. Meanwhile, BADR will be called on to lend
funds for working capital and equipment to ensure that the EACs will be able
to function; the success of the agricultural reform will depend, to some
extent, on BADR's ability and willingness to provide the necessary means to
these EACs.
4.10     The challenge for BADR will be to establish procedures and ensure
that staff are competent to analyze the demand for credit and, at the same
time, to limit BADR's risks. This is no small task. This will require
33911



- 10 -
changing the framework in which BADR staff have functioned since its creation
,or longer, as a number of BADR staff were formerly staff of BNA, from which
BADR was created).  It will also require a large training effort for staff in
the 200 branch offices throughout Algeria.
4.11     BADR's source of funds will also be different than in the recent
past. Treasury will no longer provide long term resources and BADR will have
to make a larger effort to raise longer term resources from term deposits and
borrowing. It has had some success to date in issuing two medium-to-long-term
instruments to the general public and in borrowing abroad and the bank Loan
would provide a relatively small amount of long-term resources. For short
term resources, agricultural marketing agencies and public enterprises are no
longer legally required to keep their accounts at BADR, and BADR therefore has
to make an effort to attract deposits, either through higher interest rate
incentives or better service than at other banks. There is no reason to
believe that BADR will lose large numbers of these clients, but short term
deposits are likely nevertheless to cost BADR more in terms of service and
interest payments than in the past. Finally, BADR's use of rediscount
facilities at the Central Bank will be determined by banking conditions which
will be changing in the near future, representing an increase in the rate
charged for use of the rediscount facility. Since the intention of the
banking reform is to decentralize decision making on investments and
financing, but to control monetary expansion through quantitative controls, it
is possible that BADR will be subject to quantitative restrictions on its use
of the rediscounting facility. At the same time, however, BADR will be free
to set its lending interest rates up to certain ceilings (for 1989, these are
likely to be 10% for agriculture and 14% for non-agriculture) which should
permit BADR to charge rates sufficient to cover its increased costs of
resources and operations.
4.12     Guarantee Fund and Other Measures.  In order for BADR to establish
lending to the new EACs and expand lending to individual farmers, there must
be a system of guarantees to provide BADR with protection from risk. The
risks to be faced by BADR include both the "normal" risks of lending in an
agricultural sector where the land cannot be mortgaged (for legal as well as
psychological reasons) and where the activity being financed is, by its
nature, an uncertain one, as well as the unusual risks of having to develop an
appraisal capacity at the same time as facing pressure to ensure that the new
EACs, in particular, have sufficient working capital.
4.13     To address the more "normal" risks on a long-term basis, BADR and the
Government have established a Guarantee Fund to be financed by contributions
from BADR, from the agricultural insurance company and by sub-borrowers. The
legal framework, the principles of funding, and some of the practical aspects
have been established, and their description is in Annex V of the
Implementation Volume. The Fund is likely to be operational in 1988 and is
designed to cover 70% of bad debts. Its funding is likely to be sufficient to
cover these needs in "normal" years.
4.14     To face the more unusual risks of lending BADR will encounter in the
next few years, which may involve rescheduling as well as writing off bad
debts, Government has informed the Bank that it intends to provide support, as
needed, through the Guarantee Fund to ensure that BADR's liquidity and capital
structure are protected. This would be for a transitional period while BADR
and the EACs developed into more mature institutions. Since it is important
in the context of the autonomy of banks and privatization of farming
activities that Government not appear to be continuing to guarantee farmers'
3 3 1  E



I                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~- 1 1 -
loan defaults, the Guarantee Fund is to be used as a vehicle to protect BADR
through this potentially difficult period.
4.15     In sumary, BADR faces considerable uncertainty in the near future
both in its source of funds, the amounts and the cost, and in its use of
funds, in the demand for credit, the viability of its sub-borrowers and the
guarantees backing these loans. The challenge of the next few years is to
build a bank capable of carrying out its new mandate in a responsible way.
This Project is designed to achieve this and would involve, inter alia, the
preparation by BADR of a number of financial policies and of a medium-term
strategy that would better enable BADR to meet this challenge.
4.16     To enable BADR to prepare for an effective start-up to the Project, a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved by the Bank in March 1987 for
US$750,000 equivalent to finance:  (a) technical assistance to prepare a
Master Plan for a training program for BADR staff; (b) technical assistance to
prepare a Master Plan for implementing a Management Information System (MIS)
in BADR; (c) selected items of comp%ter hardware which would permit expansion
of the computerized network in BADR. BADR is in the process of recruiting the
technical assistance (for the MIS, BADR is recruiting for the second phase of
the technical assistance, who will help prepare the master plan and
procurement documents) and in procuring the equipment. The tasks financed
under the PPF are expected to be completed by January 1989, shortly after
Project effectiveness.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.01     The primary objective of the Project would be to strengthen BADR to
carry out its mandate and operate with an effective staff and management
system. The Project would also provide agricultural and agro-industrial
equipment to improve production in these sectors. It would assist BADR to
develop a medium-term strategy and would reach agreement with Government on
the appropriate measures and environment required to ensure BADR's long-Cerm
viability.
5.02     The justification for Bank involvement in the Project is that the
Bank would provide support to contribute to the success of major reforms at a
critical time and would help to bring about important changes within BADR; it
would establish measures to ensure the autonomy of the agricultural bank; and
encourage private sector participation in agricultural development. At the
same time, the Project would provide an important source of foreign exchange
for financing investment goods in short supply in Algeria. Bank involvement
in this Project is both timely and consistent with Algeria's policy on reforms
in the banking sector and on the development effort in the agricultural sector.
B. Sumn-jry Project Description
5.03     The Project would include support of a two-year time slice of the
following activities:
(a) investment credit: BADR's two year program of medium and long-term
(M&LT) lending for on-farm investments and for small-scale
agro-industries;
3391E



- 12-
(b) management information sYStem: the review and upgrading of the
accounting system, followed by the design and establishment of a
computerized management information system; this includes technical
assistance, hardware, accompanying software and training for staff;
(c)  training:  a complete training program for BADR staff, including
technical assistance to develop a strategy and long-term program and
the training of BADR staff to provide in-service training;
(d) technical assistance: includes short-term technical assistance to
design master plans for a training program and a management
information system (noted above); input for BADR's medium-term
strategy; on-the-job training for lending in agro-industrial
activities; and external auditing.
C. Detaied Features
Investment Credit
5.04     On-farm investments.  This component would finance investments on
about 21,000 farms, including those of small-scale farmers and the new EACs.
BADR's M&LT lending covers items such as tractors and implements, harvesting
equipment, plastic greenhouses, livestock (mainly poultry and dairy)
activities, development of fruit plantations, and land reclamation. A list of
BADR's lending categories is in Table 1.
5.05     The estimates of the total number of sub-borrowers over the next
several years, as well of the amount of BADR's loans, are based on estimates
of: (a) the proportion of. new EACs (about 20,000) that will need new or
replacement equipment and the proportion of those that will demand credit; and
(b) the increase in the number of small-scale private farmers that would
receive credit.  The estimates are in Table 1 and details are in the
Implementation Volume, Annex s. For the EACs, it is estimated that about
13,500, or slightly more than half, would receive MlaT loans during the two
year project period; this amount of lending is about 35% of that channelled to
the former DAS under the centralized, automatic lending that went on until
1986, reflecting the expected more prudent approach both by BADR and by the
EACs with respect to their need for new investments and their willingness to
take on additional indebtedness. For small-scale, individual farmers, about
7,500 are estimated to receive M&LT loans during the two year period (at about
3,500-4,000 per year), compared to 2,500-3,000 borrowers per year in 1985-86.
5.06    'Investments in Agro-Industry.  This component consists of private
investment in small-scale agro-industry, which would include small food
processing plants, bakeries, cold storage, or equipment for manufacturers to
supply agricultural implements or equipment, such as motors for fishing
boats.  BADR's lending program is projected to grow rapidly in this sector,
with a more aggressive approach to seeking out small-scale private investors,
from a modest level of DA 13 million in 1986 to about DA 65 million by
1990.1"
1/ Private investors were relatively neglected until 1987; with the economic
reforms underway in Algeria, their access to administrative approval and
credit for investments will improve.  Demand for investments in
agro-industrial activities is apparently strong and unsatisfied.
3b 3 9                      g 



- 13 -
Institutional Development
5.07     Establishment of the MIS.  This component would involve a thorough
review and an upgrading of BADR's accounting system to provide BADR with more
complete information on its operations and to allow for a greater degree of
decentralization. In addition, consultants would work with BADR senior staff,
to produce a Master Plan for an MIS system, defining the information flows
required by each department, the hardware and software, the training, and the
costs of such a system. The results of the Master Plan being prepared using
the PPF (para. 4.16) would be used as the basis for financing under the
Project a two-year time-slice of the implementation of the plan, to include
the hardware, software, training and further technical assistance required.
BADR has agreed that the Master Plan would be completed and submitted to the
Bank by no later than March 31, 1989.
5.08     Training.  This component involves a two-year time-slice of the
Master Plan, also being developed under the PPF. This Plan would include the
establishment of priority areas for training and would identify the training
to be carried out within BADR and in outside institutes.  The plan would
further identify the resources required over a five year period for internal
and external training. This component would involve training of BADR staff as
trainers and necessary equipment and materials so that BADR could run
effective in-service training programs, and would finance courses and training
programs for BADR staff at all levels in institutes within Algeria and
abroad. BAD! has agreed that the Master Plan for the training component would
be completed and submitted to the Bank by no later than March 31,1989.
5.09     Technical Assistance.  In addition to the technical assistance
financed under the PPF and under the Project components for the MIS and
training, the Project would also finance short-term consultants to provide
input on developing a medium-term strategy for BADR (5 staff months), to
include setting targets for lending, savings, and deposits collection, as well
as infrastructure expansion (para. 6.12), and on developing a more aggressive
lending program in agro-industries (4 staff months). About 4 staff months of
technical assistance would be used for external auditing (para. 6.19).
D. Proiect Cost Estimates
5.10     Total Project costs are estimated at DA 3,700 million (US$569
million), of which 601, or US$344 million, would be the total foreign exchange
cost. Cost estimates include taxes and duties of about DA 244 million, or 72
of Project cost. Base costs have been estimated in December 1988 prices. The
credit component is established in financial terms for the individual farmers,
on the basis of historical lending, and for the EACs, on the basis of a number
of assumptions on the need for replacement and new equipment (See
Implemnetation Volume, Annex II). Because physical amounts are rough
estimates for all components, only price contingencies (i.e., no physical
contingencies) have been calculated."' Details of project costs are in
Tables 1 and 2, and summarized in Table 5.1 on the following page.
1/ Projected inflation rates (1 p.a.):
1989       1990
- domestic                   15.0        15.0
- international               5.3         5.3
3391 I



- 14 -
Table ...LI: PtOJECT COSTS SUMMRY
Local    Forein    Tal          Local    Foruign Toal LE
DOA millions --------           ------- USS millions ------ S
AhM (10*-1990)
- O-or tnvestments              1,032.5     1,655.3  2,687.7       158.8       254.7    413.5       62
-  gre-Industries                 233.1       233.1    466.3        35.9        3S.9     71.7       so
Lending Base Cost              1,265.6     1.888.4  3.154.1       194.7       290.5    485.2      60
_   Price Contingencies           197.1       197.0    394.0        30.3       30.3      60.6      50
-  MTAL HILT Lending            1,462.7     2,085.4  3.548.1       225.0       320.8    545.9       S9
tflUTI!AL EIVELOPM4ENT
- Training                          1.5        16.2      17.7        0.2        2.5       2.7      90
- "IS                               -         123.3    123.3         -         19.0      19.0      100
-Technical Assistance            -           Li        I.S        _-         O.2       L.       100
-    ease Cost                      1.5       141.0    142.5         0.2       21.7      21.9      99
- Price Contingencies              0.1          8.9      9.0         -          1.4       1.4      99
TOTAL Institutional
Development                   1_         149.9    151L        OL         ZLi.1    21.3       99
TOTAL PROJECT COST        1,464.3      2,235.3  3,699.6      225.3       343.9    569.2       59
E. Project Financing
5.11      The project financing is shown in Table 5.2 below.  The proposed Bank
loan of US$110 million would finance about 19X of the total project costs and
32X of the foreign exchange component. The Bank Loan would finance equipment
including tractors, pumps and motors for irrigation from wells, sprinkler
equipment for larger irrigation schemes, light utility and other transport
vehicles and agro-industrial equipment.
5.12      The loan would be made to BADR and the Government would guarantee
repayment. The foreign exchange risk would be covered by the Guarantee Fund,
to be financed by contributions from BADR and by the Government, if necessary
(para 6.16). The loan would be for 15 years, including a five-year grace
period.
32913



- 15 -
Table 5.2: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million equivalent)
Farmers'/                             Exp-I-p      Total
Investors'                 World      Bank of      Project
Contribution    BADR&'    Bank          Japan      Cost'
(1)          (2)        (3)         (4)        (5)M-1+5
On-Farm Investments      150.8         158.6       75.0          75.0      459.4
Agro-Industry             39.9                     23.3          23.3       86.5
Training Program                                    1.5           1.5        3.0
MIS Development                                     9.9           9.9       19.8
Technical Assistance                                0.3           0.3        0.5
TOTAL                    12Q.Z        la&         lQ            11          W9.
(Percent)                 34           28          19            19        100
a/ Includes US$74 million from African Development Bank for livestock
projects.
b/ Includes contingencies.
5.13     The balance of foreign exchange requirements is estimated at about
US$234 million and would be provided by (a) a loan already approved from the
African Development Bank (ADB) for about US$74 million equivalent to finance
livestock investments; (b) co-financing from the Export Import Bank of Japan
for $110 million equivalent to finance on-farm and agroindustrial equipment,
elements of the MIS system, technical assistance and training; and (c) local
suppliers. Local currency cost would be financed by sub-borrowers'
contributions (US$191 million equivalent) and BADR's resources.
F. Procurement
5.14     Procurement arrangements under the Project are summarized in
Table 5.3 on the following page.



- 16 -
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ million) /a
ICB /b    LCB    Other /d   N/A /e   Total Cost
Proiect Component
- On Farm Investment Sub-Loans
(a) Agricultural Equipment      200.0       -     170.9                   370.9
(68.5)             (6.5)                 (75.0)
(b) Civil Works                                               88.5         88.5
- Agro-Industrial Subloans
(a) Equipment                    36.1       -       10.5       -           46.6
(18.0)             (5.3)                 (23.3)
(b) Civil Works                                               39.9         39.9
- MIS Equipment/c                   19.8                                     19.8
(9.9)                                    (9.9)
- Training Programs                                    3.0                    3.0
(1.5)                  (1.5)
- Technical Assistance                                 0.5                    0.5
(0.3)                  (0.3)
255.9      -      184.9     128.4        569.2
(96.4)            (13.6)                (110.0)
/a  Includes contingencies.  Figures in parentheses represent Bank loan
financing.
/b  These figures include all items under co-financing.  Some 90% of these
goods would be purchased by beneficiaries directly from suppliers.
/c  Includes software and related trainiig and technical assistance.
/d  Includes limited international bidding and local and/or international
shopping.
/e  This refers mainly to civil works, which would be carried out by the
investor/farmer, possibly together with local contractors in the case of
the larger investments.
5.15     Farm and Agro-Industrial Equipment.  The range of goods financed by
BADR under the Project for on-farm investments and agro-industries includes
imported items, locally manufactured equipment and related civil works.
Equipment that can be bulked into packages costing US$500,000 equivalent or
more with a total estimated value of US$236 million would be procured through
ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines published in May 1985. Participation
in bidding by local firms is expected to occur on roughly US$60 million
equivalent of items in these categories. Qualifying domestic manufacturers
would be granted a margin of preference equal to 15% of the CIF bid price of
the imported goods or the actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is
lower. For equipment that is estimated to cost between US$150,000 and
US$500,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$5,000,000, limited
international bidding would be used, and for equipment estimated to cost less
than US$150,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,500,000, either
local or international shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank would be



- 17 -
followed.L' For agroindustrial equipment estimated to cost US$1,500,000 or
less, the investor may procure the equipment from eligible suppliers according
to local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.16     For computer equipment and associated software, training and
technical assistance, valued at a total of US$20 million equivalent,
;rfocurement would be on the basis of ICB.
5e17     Consultants for technical assistance (US$0.3 million) with
qualifications, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank,
would be appointed following Bank Guidelines on the use of consultants
publ:shed in April 1981. Short-term, highly specialized individuals would be
recruited by direct negotiation.  For the training component (US$3.0 million),
if a I rm were invited to provide the full training program, its selection
would be made by reference to a short list of firms; if the training were to
be cairied out by selected individuals and training centers, selections would
be made by direct uegotiation. The exact design of the training program would
be decided in the context of the Training Master Plan, to be developed during
implementation of the Project (para 5.08). Selection of consultants for
training would follow Bank Guidelines on the use of consultants.
5.18     Review of Bid Documents and Contracts.  Bidding packages and award of
contracts for equipment estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more each
would be subject to the Bank's prior approval. In the case of agroindustrial
equipment estimated to cost US$1,500,000 or less, BADR would send to the Bank
for prior approval a description of the equipment, the invoices and any draft
contract, if appropriate. Prior review by the Bank would occur on about 90%
of the total estimated value of contracts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
The other contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after
contract award.
G. Disbursement
5.19     Disbursement Schedule.  The proposed Bank loan of US$110 million
would be committed within the period January 1989 to March 1992 and disbursed
over a maximum period of five fiscal years. This is more rapid than EMENA
disbursement profiles for agricultural credit projects, but the loans in these
profiles were designed to be committed and therefore disbursed over longer
periods of time. Taking this factor into account, the proposed project
disbursement profiles are conservative. While the Project may well disburse
more rapidly, delays could occur in the first year or two because of the
number of agencies involved, as well as the Borrower, who are all unfamiliar
with the Bank's procedures on documentation and procurement. Tre detailed
estimated schedule of disbursements is in Table 3, and summarized in Table 5.4
below.
1/ Local shopping procedures would apply where there are at least three local
suppliers.
32211I!



- 18 -
Table 5.4: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
1989          1990           1991       1992        1993
Annual                 4.0           25.0           35.0       30.0        16.0
Cumulative             4.0           29.0           64.0       94.0       110.0
5.20                    Disbursement Procedures.  Disbursemc    ategories,
loan amounts, and disbursement percentages are shown in Table 5.5 below.
Table 5.5: DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
C a t e g o r y                          Amount           Disbursements
(US$ million)            %
1.  Tractors, vehicles and other                      68.0          50% of foreign
equipment for on-farm investments                               expenditures or
50% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory).
2.  Agro-industrial equipment                         23.0                "
3.  Electronic Data-Processing Equipment               9.0           50% of
and associated Software, Training and                            total
Techrical Assistance                                            expenditures
4.  Training Program                                   1.5                 "
5.  Technical Assistance                               0.3
6.  Unallocated                                        7.4
7.  Project Preparation Facility                       0.8
TOTAL                                      110.0
5.21     All applications for withdrawal would be prepared and submitted by
BADR. Disbursements for all equipment (Categories 1,2, and 3) and for
technical assistance (Category 5) would be against full standard documentation,
except for those expenditures under contracts valued at $150,000 or less where
disbursements would be made against certified statements of expenditures.
Disbursements against Category 4 for training would be against either
contracts, where appropriate, or statements of expenditure (SOEs) for in-house
or local training. Full documentation for SOEs would be retained by BADR for
review by Bank supervision missions and would be examined annually by external
auditors acceptable to the Bank (6.19). The Loan closing date would be
September 30, 1992.



- 19 -
5.22     Special Account.  To permit timely implementation of the Project tbe
Bank would, after effectiveness and at BADR's request, deposit up to
US$9 million equivalent in a special account at the Central Bank of Algeria in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The special account would be drawn on as
needed by BADR to finance eligible expenditures. Applications for direct
payment and for special co_mitment could still be submitted to the Bank for
m4nimum amounts equivalent to one third of the approved amount of the special
account. BADR would normally request replenishment by the Bank either monthly
for a minimum of $750.000 or whenever 50t of the special account has been
utilized. Recovery of the initial deposit would begin when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the remaining loan funds that are expected to be
disbursed by loan closure has fallen to US$18 million. Any ineligible
payments made by BADR out of the special account would be reimbursed promptly
to the account, or if the Bank requests, refunded to the Bank. Any amount
outstanding in the special account at loan closure not required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures would be refunded to the Bank.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.01     BADR would be responsible for implemerting the Project.  In a narrow
sense, this would involve assessing the demand for items of equipment to be
bulked and procured through ICB (paras. 5.14-5.16), monitoring the purchase,
subsequent distribution and loans made for the purchase of the items by the
farmers and investors, and monitoring the repayment of the loans. It would
involve coordinating the procurement activites of a number of agencies, under
the supervision of several Ministries (Agriculture and Heavy Industry, in
particular). It would also mean working closely with the consultants to
produce and implement the Master Plans for both the management information
system and the training program (paras. 5.07-5.08) and to develop BADR's
policy statement and medium term plan (para 6.12).
6.02     In a larger sense, now that the role of centralized planning of
technical ministries has been reduced and the reforms introduced into
agriculture and banking have placed greater responsibility on BADR, BADR will
take a leading role in coordinating its lending with the agricultural policies
of the Ministry of Agriculture and in defining its needs and constraints with
respect to banking conditions as determined by the Central Bank of Algeria.
A. Subloans made by BADR
6.03     Because of the number of agencies involved in importing and
distributing the goods, BADR has appointed a coordinator within its Department
of International Affairs to handle procurement aspects. Each year BADR would
estimate the demand for medium-term loans for on-farm and agro-indus trial
equipment and would analyze the loan applications for acceptability for BADR's
financing. The procurement documents would be prepared with input from the
importing agencies on the technical specifications. Shortly after Board
presentation standardized documents would be agreed with the Bank on the
administrative aspects of the bidding documents. For the first five
agro-industrial subprojects (Category 2) regardless of their total cost and
for each subproject having a sub-loan amount of over US$2,000,000 equivalent,
prior Bank review and approval would be required of subloan applications and
BADR's analysis.
6.04     On-farm investments.  In accordance with existing guidelines for
lending to farmers, BADR would:



- 20 -
(a) lend to farmers who could produce written evidence of their
agricultural vocation;
(b)  ensure that sub-borrowers had adequate means of financii   Aeir
contribution to the investment and of repaying the loan; Lais would
involve an analysis of their current financial condition and of their
projected income and cash-flows over the period of the loan repayment;
(c) ensure that sub-borrowers would make full use of the investment goods
for farming-related activities;
(d) take a lien on the equipment financed by the sub-loan, and ensure
that the sub-borrower provides other forms of protection and
guarantee as requested by BADR.
6.05     Agroindustrial subproiects.  BADR already lends for agroindustrial
activities. Under the Project, lending would be expanded to more activities,
such as processing plants for tomatoes and cold storage. The following
lending criteria would be applied for subloans made under the Project:
(a) funds would be for activities in the agro-industrial sector which
used locally produced goods such as fruits, vegetables and cereals or
to activities that produce equipment or services for che use of
farmers or fishermen;
(b) sub-borrowers would be required to have adequate input supply and
marketing plans as well as a satisfactory administrative and
financial structure for their enterprise, and the investments would
have to be technically, financially and economically viable and
environmentally sound;
(c) subprojects would be justified in terms of their financial rate of
return, with a minimum return of 15X each;
(d) because the aim is to promote small-scale agroindustrial activity,
the Loan would finance subprojects in this category up to a maximum
investment cost of US$7 million equivalent.
BADR and the Bank agreed on these criteria at negotiations.
6.06     To develop BADR's appraisal capacity and to promote more aggressive
marketing of BADR's lending for agroindustry, short-term technical assistance
specialized in this area would be used to work wiith and train BADR staff
(para. 5.09).
6.07     Physical and financial channels for subloans.  The ci.srt in Annex 4
shows the flow of funds and physical channels for the subloans and equipment
financed under the Project. The Loan would be used to finance procurement of
equipment by the public sector agencies that are responsible for purchase
and/or distribution of equipment. The suppliers would be paid directly by
BADR, the Borrower, on behalf of the purchasing/importing agency and these
agencies would then owe the counterpart equivalent in dinars to BADR. The
agencies would own the equipment until it is sold to the distributors or to
the end users (who would in turn be financing their purchase through credit
3391 I



- 21 -
from MRD) and would use the Proceeds from the sale for reimbursement to
BADR. The terms of the loans from BADR to the importing agencies would be
standard for short term loans (7-8Z p.a.). BADR has agreed that the
arrangements for procurement, subsequent distribution and reimbursement
between BADR and the importing agencies would be satisfactory to the Bank.
6.08     BADR's financing would be less than the total cost of the equipment
to the end-users, as the equipment would include marketing and distribution
charges as well as any import duties and taxes, if applicable. In addition,
repayment to BADR of amounts lent, first for the financing of the purchase of
the equipment by the importing agencies and second, for the sub-loans to
farmers and agro-industrial investors, would be of short and medium-term
nature, while repayment of the Bank loan is of a long term nature (15 years).
In the interim, BADR would have use of these funds for on-lending as part of
its normal lending program. BADR has agreed that t!Ae re.lows from the
proceeds of the Loan would continue to be used for ag.-ct! tural and
agro-industrial lending activities.
B. BADR Institution-Building Activities
6.09     Training Program.  With input from consultants hired through the PPF
(para 4.16), BADR is preparing a Master Plan to define the long-term training
needs of the bank and a two year time-slice for Project financing. Terms of
reference are at Annex VII of the Implementation Volume. The PPF also
includes funds to train about 10 BADR staff as trainers to service internal
training needsa   Reratigse BADR is a rapidly evolving institution and its
training needs may change over time, the results of the Master Plan will
include a certain amount of flexibility. It will, however, define those
elements of investment in training materials and equipment as well as in
outside courses and institutes that would provide the most urgently needed
training in the two years of the Project. The final report of the Master Plan
should be available no later than March 31, 1989, several months after Project
effectiveness. In addition, to carry out their mandate in the context of the
agricultural reform, BADR staff need immediate training in loan appraisal; the
basis for such training would be a manual of instructions which BADR is
developing. To ensure timely start up of this immediate training, BADR is
recruiting the technical assistance for the training prior to Board
presentation.
6.10     Establishment of the Management Information System (MIS).  The PPF
also provides funding for consultants to work with BADR directors to examine
the current accounting system, which is inadequate to deal with BADR's new
responsibilites, and to define, with BADR directors, the information needs of
the management. The terms of reference for developing a Master Plan for the
MIS are at Annex VIII of the Implementation Volume. To ensure that the work
of the Master Plan be started as soon as possible, the consultants to work on
the accounting system and Master Plan have been hired. In addition, to ensure
that the computer equipment is procured in accordance with the recommendations
of the Master Plan, BADR agreed that the tender documents for procurement of
this equipment would be submitted to the Bank for review only after a Master
Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, had been submitted to the Bank, and the
completion of the Plan would be no later than March 31, 1989.
3391=



- 22 -
6.11     Lending Policies.  BADR has a set of terms and conditions for lending
for on-farm investments and for agro-industries which combine the parameters
established by the Ministry Gf Finance on interest rates and grace periods for
centrally planned investments (see Annex 3) with conditions determined by BADR
for lending on its own resources, independently of "planned credit" (see Annex
3 for discussion of planned and unplanned credit). For the purposes of this
Project, these terms and conditions are satisfactory for those items that
would be financed by the Loan. Investments would be medium-term in nature and
for on-farm investments would provide a cash flow from the first year of
service sufficient to finance loan repayments. Grace periods for
agro-industrial investments would be determined on a case by case basis. The
banking sector reforms underway will change the ways in which terms and
conditions of borrowing and lending are determined and BADR will in the near
future have a larger degree of freedom than in the past. Because of this as
well as the changes in the agricultural sector, the introduction of the EACs
and the greater priority now given to developing the farming sector, the terms
and conditions will be reviewed, particularly for loans to the EACs and for
long-term loans, which until now have been limited to selected development
programs. BADR has agreed that no later than June 30, 1989 BADR would produce
and furnish to the Bank a revised set of terms and conditions for private
sector lending that would include, at a minimum, the elements mentioned in
Aanex 3, para 14 [(a)-(e)] and, after discussion with the Bank, would
implement these terms and conditions by no later than June 30, 1990.
6.12     BADR's Medium-Term Strategy.  BADR's role in the economy will be
changing dramatically in the next few years. BADR needs to develop a clear
definition of its role and  ts                      and a strategy for carrying
these out. The Project would provide technical assistance to work with the
management to formulate an initial draft strategy statement to define the role
and functions of BADR for the near (five year) future. BADR agreed to submit
to the Bank a draft medium-term policy statement no later than June 30, 1989
and after discussion with the Bank to finalize and implement the medium-term
strategy, to include the elements in Annex 3, para 32 [(a)-(d)], by no later
than June 30, 1990. It would be understood that because of the changes now
taking place in both the agricultural and banking sectors, such a policy and
medium-term strategy would need to be flexible and subject to revision in
light of future developments in both sectors.
C. BADR's Future Financial Structure and Performance
6.13     BADR is entering a period of difficult transition, with the
combination of the restructured agricultural sector and the changes in the
nature of its clientele occurring at the same time that it must take on much
greater responsibility as the banker for the development of this sector. It
is likely that BADR will face difficult choices in lending to the newly
established EACs, and without some Government backing, BADR may face a
difficult financial situation. Under normal circumstances, adequate
provisioning and a functioning Guarantee Fund should provide sufficient
protection. In the present situation, BADR is likely to need some combination
of the following: (a) its margins increased through interest rate
adjustments, which would allow both for higher costs of operations and greater
provisions for bad debts; (b) the Guarantee Fund, established in 1987
(para 4.13), backed by Government to prevent its depletion; and (c) BADR's
short-term borrowing transformed to longer terms. Government intends to
3391E



- 23 -
provide support on an "as needed" basis during this transitional period
through its support of the Guarantee Fund (see para. 4.14). In addition, BADR
has agreed that the measure of the adequacy cf BADR's financial structure
would be that: (a) BADR's would maintain its equity (to include subscribed
capital, reserves, provisions that serve as reserves) at a level no less than
that of December 31, 1987, and (b) BADR would maintain its current ratio at a
minimum of 1 to 5; the current ratio being defined as the ratio of all current
assets, excluding short-term loans, to all current liabilities.
6.14     As a result o.; the 1986 Banking Law, BADR's lending is no longer
guaranteed by Government. It is therefore essential that BADR develop an
adequate policy on provisioning and writing off bad debts. BADR has agreed to
ensure sufficient provisioning for the risks on all subloans, based on an
analysis of the actual experience in loan repayments and of the arrears
situation.-I  BADR's accounting system is to be revised and would, as a
result, permit an analysis of the portfolio by the age of arrears.  As a
result, BADR would be able to formulate a policy for writing off its bad debts
and BADR agreed that such a policy would be deve'oped and furnished to the
Bank by June 30, 1989 and, after discussion with the Bank, would implement the
policy by no later than June 30, 1990.
6.15     Interest Rate Structure.  The increases in provisions, combined with
higher operating costs ard risks associated with loan appraisals of the new
EACs strongly suggests that BADR's margins will have to increase. While it is
extremely difficult to make financial projections under the circumstances,
experience in other countries suggests that the margins between lending and
burrOwing zates wll ha-ve to be wider tha.n their current level of two to three
percentage points.  Because the financial projections are so uncertain, the
principle of BADR's financial viability should be established. BADR has
agreed that interest rates would be set each year at a level to ensure a
spread sufficient to cover the financial and administrative costs, including
the risks, of BADR's operations. BADR would be responsible for projecting
each year the likely costs and income from its lending program and the
interest rates necessary to cover the projected costs. Such an agreement
establishes the basis for future discussions betweer. the Bank and Government
on the structure of interest rates and the level of interest rates in
agriculture.
6.16     Foreign Exchange Risk.  Given current circumstances and without
access to a foreign exchange futures market, the sub-borrowers, farmers and
small-scale entrepreneurs, cannot realistically be expected to bear the
foreign exchange losses that are likely to be both significant and difficult
to predict over the next few years. Therefore it has been agreed that the
risk would be shared through the Guarantee Fund. BADR would contribute to the
Fund a commission on all disbursed and outstanding funds from the World Bank
1/ BADR follows the statute on provisions, setting aside no more than 52 of
gross revenue to a cumulative maximum of 102 of outstanding loans. BADR
also sets aside an amount to cover up to 802 of the private sector loans
in arrears. This is acceptable for now, but will need review in light of
experience from 1988 onwards with loan repayment.
3 3 9 I E



- 24 -
loan whichwould become part of its financial costs and would in turn be
recovered through the interest rate structure. In addition, Government has
assured the Bank that it intends to ensure that the Guarantee Fund will be
adequately funded. BADR has agreed that its contribution to the Guarantee
Fund will be determined by a separate contract, satisfactory to the Bar.k.
D.  gR2E!cgg
6.17     BADR has agreed that it would provide semi-annual reports to the Bank
of project progress, within three months of the end of each semester: these
would include disbursement data by category of Bank Loan disbursement and data
on BADR's sub-loans by item within the category (e.g., tractors, pumps, etc.),
loan recovery data, BADR's financial situation, liquidity position, changes in
lending policies and procedures and progress being achieved in the
implementation of the institution building activities. A format of such a
report is in Annex 5. BADR would prepare and submit to the Bank a Project
Completion Report not later than six months after the closing date of the
Project. Copies of any consultants' reports would be provided to the Bank as
and when prepared.
E. Accounts and Audits
6.18    As described above (paras 5.07 and 6.10), BADR's accounting system
needs improvement. While it has served its purpose to date of keeping records
of financial transactions, it is not well suited to providing information to
management for decision making. The accounts do not show, for example, the
age structure of arrears, nor is information on the debt broken down by
foreign and local sources or by term. As part of the Master Plan for the MIS,
(para. 6.10) recommendations would be made on improvements needed in the
accounting system and changes would be introduced prior to or during
-nstallation of the hardware for the MIS.
6.19     BADR's accounts are examined each year by the Inspector General of
the Ministry of Finance. While this does not constitute a formal, external,
independent audit, the Bank has examined the accounts and believes that they
have been kept in accordance with acceptable accounting procedures. Under the
Project, the accounts would be audited annually, however, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. BADR has agreed that the auditor's reports
would be sent to the Bank within nine months of the end of each BADR fiscal
year under the Project.
F. Environmental Impact
6.20     This Project would have no negative impact on the environment.  For
agro-industries to be financed under the Project, BADR would verify this
explicitly (para. 6.05(b)).
3391E



- 25 -
VIL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Introduction
7.01     Given the uncertainties in the agricultural sector, it is difficult
to project Incremental production from the Project. First the demand for
credit from the restructured EACs is difficult to predict, as it is for their
participation in the Project and for the likely investments. Second, cropping
patterns may differ from the past because they will follow incentives as
opposed to centrally planned objectives. In addition, Government has changed
producer prices by as much as 20S on certain crops, which will also alter
their relative attractiveness. Estimates of incremental production that would
result from the Project, based on farm models of individual, small-scale
farmers (see Chapter 8), should therefore be considered as orders of magnitude
- particularly in view of the flexibility that BADR would have in allocating
funds to different investments.
7.02     For agro-industrial activities such as cold storage, bakeries, food
processing and canning, etc., quantifying production is even more difficult
because of the diversity of these activities and the fungibility of credit
funds. The demand for the credit will depend on market-related
opportunities. In some cases such investments may result in incremental
production by inducing farmers to grow crops or increase cropping intensity by
assuring them of a market for their produce: a tomato processing plant, for
example, that contracts with nearby farmers for their tomato production would
provide the security of a market outlet. In the absence of such security,
farmers might reduce tomato production in favor of non-irrigated cereals or
even fallow. The estimated incremental production from agro-industrial
activities has not been quantified.
B. Incremental Farm Production
7.03     On-farm investments include agricultural machinery (in particular,
tractors and implements), small-scale irrigation equipment (motorpumps,
sprinklers, etc.), greenhouses, poultry equipment and purebred or improved
cattle - with associated infrastructure and equipment - mainly for milk
production. Investments in tractors and associated equipment would also
result in increased yields, allowing both the access of non-mechanized farms
to tractor and implements use and, for those farms already mechanized through
hire services, more timely and better land preparation, harvesting, and
produce transport; investments in irrigation equipment and greenhouses shift
cropping patterns to more intensive cultivation and fallow land reduction, or
to cultivation of more profitable crops (vegetables and fruits).
7.04     Incremental production estimates are derived from projected uses of
credit and based on farm models representing new investments in tractors and
implements, tubewells and small-scale irrigation equipment, and greenhouses
(see yield and cropping pattern changes per model type in Annex I,
Implementation Volume)-'. These would be, at full development, about 76,000
tons of cereals, 17,000 FU of fodder crops, 48,000 tons of openfield vegetables
1/ It is estimated that about 7,250 tractors, 1,600 irrigation pumps (and
sprinkler systems) and 5,000 greenhouses would be financed under the
project.
3 3 9 I )



- 26 -
(mainly potatoes, onions and watermelons) and 13,000 tons of greenhouse
vegetables (tomatoes and cucumber). In addition, annual milk and meat
production from dairy cattle financed by the ADB would represent more than
71,000,000 litres of milk (3,500 1 on average per cow per year) and some 4,000
tons of meat (liveweight).L'  The details and comparisons with average
production in the country in 1985-86 are found in Table 4. These estimates
show that the incremeiital production from the Project would be 22 to 3% of
current estimated national production and that therefore there would be no
problem of absorbing the production in the domestic markets.
C. Markets
7.05     Cereals and milk products account for a large part of Algeria's food
import bill (more than 3.0 million tons of cereals - mainly wheat and maize -
and some 220,000 tons of milk were imported in 1987). Up to 70% of the
country's basic food requirements are met with imports. The incremental
production of wheat, barley and milk under the Project would therefore be
import substitutes.
7.06     In the past ten years or so fresh fruit and vegetable production has
increased rapidly in Algeria, mostly in response to high prices coupled with
strong demand. The country is now considered self sufficient in these crops,
and has started to export small quantities of vegetables, mostly potatoes.
Future domestic demand is, however, likely to increase with population
growth. For the purposes of economic analysis, the fruits and vegetables were
treated as import substitutes, except for potatoes, where a weighted average
was taken of import and export parity prices.
7.07     Marketing of cereals and pulses is still controlled to a large extent
by Government, who is, through its national marketing bureau, responsible for
both imports and the purchase of domestically produced cereals through a
network of cooperatives. A parallel market does exist, however, whose share
in the total production has been estimated to be as high as 30-402 in "normal"
years. Since deregulation in 1982, the marketing of vegetables is almost
entirely in the hands of private traders, but appears to be limited
geographically to the consumption centers located in the production areas.
Most of the domestic milk production is also marketed through private
channels, a fairly small proportion (about 61) being purchased by the three
regional milk marketing Offices. Meat production is also primarily in the
hands of the private sector.
1/ Mission estimates, which are lower than those presented in the ADB
appraisal report.
3 39 I E



- 27 -
D. Prices
7.08     Cereal prices are regulated and fixed annually; for those crops
affected by this project, they have been increased for the 1987-88 season by
52 to 23X in nominal terms compared to the 1986-87 price"'. Prices of the
other crops and livestock products are free, but fixed prices offered by
official marketing agencies act as support prices to the producers in surplus
periods. Since deregulation in 1982, fruit and vegetable prices have been
particularly high, compared to those in neighboring countries; some fruit and
vegetable prices have recently decreased. however. Currently, meat prices are
also high (DA 110-120 per kg at the retail level). For all project outputs
except barley, financial prices are much higher than economic prices,
calculated on the basis of border prices (see Table 9, Annex I, Implementation
Volume). Prices used in the financial analysis are official prices for
cereals and, for the other crops, prices reported by farmers or traders in
1987; vegetable prices were adjusted downward (by 201), however, to allow for
a fall in prices due to increased national production from other projects
(particularly irrigation projects).
7.09     Some input prices (fertilizers and poultry feed) are still
subsidized, although the subsidies havp decreased considerably in recent
years: it is Government's intention to implement, by no later than 1989, a
price policy for agricultural inputs and equipment that would reflect full
financial costs ("verite des prix"). Currently, subsidies on fertilizer
prices range from 10% to 301. Prices of domestically-manufactured
agricultural machinery - including a 9% margin for the domestic manufacturer
and local distribution units - are now officially unsubsidized, but those for
bigger and heavier equipment (e.g., combine harvesters) still contain a
certain element of subsidy. MAF also fixes minimum rental rates for
mechanization services provided by the public sector, but these rates appear
to be lower than real costs; however, entrepreneurs or farmers providing these
services may charge real operating costs including a 151 margin. Input prices
used in the financial analysis are prices currently paid by farmers; prices of
machinery and equipment are official (agricultural machinery) or private
sector (irrigation pumps) prices in 1987; irrigation water and machinery
operating costs have been estimated at their real value.
Vm. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Finanea Anays
8.01     Farm Models.  To analyze the profitability of on-farm investments to
be financed under the Project and quantify the returns to borrowing farmers,
three farm models were chosen to represent the most likely types of
investments: tractors and implements, small-scale irrigation equipment (with
well construction) and greenhouses. In addition, dairy cattle models were
developed by ADB in its appraisal report. The first three models are based on
1/ The largest increase was for durum wheat, which is cultivated over the
largest area.
3391E



- 28 -
discussions with BADR and MAF staff as vell as on farms visited in different
regions1'.  Several combinations of these models and cropping patterns will
probably exist, in practice, under the project. As an example, two variants
of the tractor model were used: one without rental, the tractor used only on
the investor's farm, at 65S of its capacity, and another with rental to other
farms and full tractor use. Results in Table 8.1 should therefore be taken an
illustrative.
8.02     Impact on Farmers' Incomes.  The effect on farmers' incomes would be
significant at full development: net farm incomes, measured in 1987 constant
prices, are estimated to increase by 11 to 18% for the tractor model (without
and with rental), over 501 for the greenhouse model and more than three-fold
for the small-scale irrigation farm. Incremental income would come as a
result of increased yields (about 101 for che farm investing in agricultural
machinery to substitute for previously hired mechanization services), fallow
land reduction and a switch from rainfed cereals to irrigated, higher value
crops (irrigation equipment), more intensive cultivation (shift from openfield
to greenhouse crops for a specialized vegetable farmer) and the improvement in
livestock quality and yield through the purchase of purebred dairy cattle.
Table 8.1: Impact on Farm Incomes
Farm Model /a                        1          2           3             4
Farm size (ha)                 65           30          2        12 cow units
26 cow units
49 cow units
Net income                    110,300      30,500    135,100           n.a.
Without project (DA)
Net income d/                 122,500 /b   98,600    205,600    53,100
With project (DA)       130,300 /c                          162,100
_79,500
Incremental                   12,200 /b
net income (DA)             20,000 /c   68,100       70,700          n.a.
/a  Farm model 1:  Tractors and implements;
"    "   2:  Small-scale irrigation (well and equipment);
3:  greenhouses;
4:  dairy cattle.
/b  Without rental.
/c  With rental at full tractor capacity.
/d  After debt service and at full development.
1/ Details on the models and assumptions on cropping patterns and yields are
in Annex I of the Implementation Volume.
I * * I t



- 29 -
8.03     Financial Rates of Return (FRR).  The FRR together with sensitivity
analysis are su arized in Table 8.3, with details of sensitivity tests in
Table 5 at the end of the report. Ranging from 232 to 39t, they all show
adequate incentives to invest and are relatively insensitive to assumptions on
costs and benefits (except for the greenhouse model, which is quite sensitive
to slight changes in assumptions). High returns are obtained for all types of
investment considered, including the tractor model without rental. This is
due in part to the high, recently increased prices of cereals, which account
for 80S of the surface cultivated on the farms in this model.
8.04     Financial Impact on BADR.  Financial projections for BADR must be
oased on a number of assumptions about its operations under the new situation
in agriculture. The projected lending program for medium and long term loans
to the private sector, including the EACs, is found at Tables 1-2. Other
assumptions on the lending program for the short term loans and for all loans
to the public sector (mainly marketing bureaus) are found in Annex 6. The
results of this analysis are sensitive to the assumptions made not only about
the level of lending, but also about the rates of loan recovery, of loan
rescheduling, and of default. In addition, the bank conditions, including the
interest rate structure and the rediscount rate, are being changed, which will
also affect BADR's margins and operating results. The results found in the
following paragraph and in Table 8.2 should be considered a "base case"
scenario, from which it can be seen to what extent BADR could support a lower
reimbursement rate, various levels of contribution to the Guarantee Fund,
and/or a narrower margin on its interest rate (due to higher cost of funds or
higher operating costs).
8.05     For this analysis, the following assumptions were made:
(a) the volume of loans outstanding and the volume of loans made during
1988 would be decreased due to the restructuring of the DAS and
Government's assumption of their outstanding debt; this debt
accounted for about 252 of BADR's portfolio at the end of 1986;
(b) starting in 1989, at a lower base than in 1988, BADR's volume of new
lending would grow relatively slowly, at about 102 per year;
(c) total loan recovery for short term loans would be at 902 and for M&LT
loans at 851;
(d) the unpaid loans would be covered at a rate of 702 either by
foreclosure on the equipment and property or by the Guarantee Fund.
As a result, only 31 of short term and 4.52 of M&LT loans are
eventually written off from BADR's provisions.
(e) For the eventual write off of bad debts, BADR would provision each
year 31 of short term and 4.51 of M&LT disbursements;
(f) BADR would have recourse to rediscount facilities at the Central Bank
up to an amount of DA 4.5 billion (at a cost of 2.751 p.a.), and
;hereafter would have recourse to the money market (at a cost of
3.251 p.a.).
(g) The cost of all resources and the interest earned on all loans were
taken an they exist at present.
339 1 KI



- 30 -
8.06     With these generally conservative assumptions, BADR's financial
performance and capital structure in the near future, as suumarized in Table
8.2 below, are satisfactory, except for the ratio on provisions. It should be
noted that until 1986 provisions for bad debts in the private sector were made
as part of extraordinary expenses and not included in the balance sheet, thus
these figures slightly underestimate the ability of BADR to cover its losses.
Nevertheless, the results of the projections show that BADR's profitability
and/or its provisions would be quickly eroded if:
(a) BADR must contribute more than a small amount to the Guarantee Fund;
BADR has a margin of about DA 250-300 million per year to contribute
before its profitability would be seriously threatened (all other
things being equal), and this amounts to roughly 2-3Z of the amounts
disbursed to the private sector;
(b) if foreclosure and the Guarantee Fund do not cover as much as 701 of
the bad loans, or if BADR cannot collect from the Guarantee Fund in a
timely fashion;
(c) margins between cost of resources and interest earned on loans
narrows by as much as 1 percentage point. This could happen if the
cost of mobilizing dcmestic resources increases with the reform of
the banking sector and the autonomy of enterprises, or if BADR's
operating costs increase by more than the 10% assumed in these
projections.
The financial situation must be carefully monitored, and measures taken to
prevent such erosion. With the changes foreseen in the banking sector, BADR
will have the autonomy to increase interest rates on lending up to twice the
rediscount rate, which would set the upper limit for 1989 at 102 p.a. for
agricultural lending and 14% p.a. for non-agricultural lending. If BADR needs
to increase its interest rates over past levels to accommodate increased
operating, provisioning or resource costs, these ceilings (of 10% and 14%)
should be adequate to allow BADR to realize a margin of 4-5 percentage points
over the cost of its resources. BADR agreed during negotiations to set
interest rates each year so as to ensure a sufficient spread to cover all
costs (para. 6.15).
Table 8.2: BADR's Financial Indicators 1987-1991
1987     1988    1989   1990   1991
Total Debt to Equity (leverage)            13.0      9.6     9.5      9.2    9.1
Current Assets to Current Liability         1.53    1.68    1.61    1.58   1.48
Normal Risk Assets to Core Deposits         1.93    1.51    1.45    1.53   1.65
Provisions as 2 of Total Risk Assets a/   0.4        1.25    1.87    1.96   2.01
Return on Average Equity (pre-tax) Z       18       12      15       14     14
a/ Defined as normal risk assets (loans outstanding and bills discounted) plus
guarantees and acceptances (off balance sheet items).
I 91 IE



- 31 -
8.07     The most important long term benefits from the project would be
institutional, since the Project's main objective is to develop BADE into an
effective agricultural credit institution. Very significant quantifiable
benefits would, however, also derive from the increased production on the
farms as a result of project investments.
8.08     For each far. model, an economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated.
The results have not been aggregated into an overall ERR for the Project
because the distribution of loans among the different types of investment or
among variations of the models will depend on changes in relative prices and
the attractiveness of alternative investments and land use.
8.09     Benefits include all incremental production resulting from increased
yields and/or the shift to irrigated and higher value crops. Costs include
all capital costs (with replacement) and incremental operating costs. In 1987
prices, benefits and costs were valued at border prices or using appropriate
conversion factors (see details of calculations and results in Annex I,
Implementation Volume). All taxes and subsidies have been excluded.
8.10     Import parity prices were estimated for traded inputs (fertilizers,
diesel, potato seed) on the basis of the Bank's commodity price projections
for 1995 and the 1986 Algerian import statistics, adjusted for transport and
handling to the farmgate. The economic prices of all other inputs (cereal and
vegetable seed, except for potato, plant protection, manure) were obtained by
applying the standard conversion factor (SCF=0.65) to the financial price.
Agricultural machinery prices were converted into economic terms by using
updated import prices into Algeria (combine harvesters) or actual prices iv
Morocco for similar equipment (tractors); other investments were valued using
the SCF (irrigation equipment and greenhouses) or the shadow sage for
unskilled labor (tubewells), taken at 50S of its current market rate to
reflect both the overvaluation of the Dinar and the situation of un- or
underemployment in rural areas. For irrigation water and agricultural
machinery operating costs, specific conversion factors for diesel, labor and
the relevant equipment were used.
8.11     Cereal import parity prices for 1995 were calculated using world
market commodity forecasts and Algerian import statistics, adjusted for
transport and handling. For vegetables, economic prices were taken at
Tunisian border equivalents using the 1986 financial prices in Tunisia,
adjusted for 1987 and for transport costs. The exception is potato, which is
both imported and exported to/from Algeria: a weighted average of its
import/export parity price, based on 1986 statistics, was used. It was
assumed that the difference in economic prices between openfield and
greenhouse vegetables would not be as high as in financial terms, so that a
50S increase was used. Last, the value of fodder crops was converted from
financial to economic terms by applying the SCF.
8.12     The ERRs obtained for the farm models are shown in Table 8.3.  The
FRR, also in the table, are higher than the ERRs in two of the three cases.
This is the result mainly of Government price intervention, with economic or
border prices lower than financial prices for project outputs except barley
but higher for the most significant inputs (fertilizer and diesel) and
investments (agricultural machinery). The ERR for the tractor model is high
3391E



- 32 -
at 471, reflecting the fact that the purchase of an additional tractor and
implements would allow a previously non-mechanized farm to have aechanization
through the release of the tractor that had been rented by the farmer
purchasing the tractor. Thus the yield increase in the economic analysis is
such higher than in the financial analysis, where the difference comes from
owoorship versus rental use of a tractor. The ERR of the greenhouse model is
satisfactory at 19S and derives from the switch to higher value and better
yielding vegetable crops. The small-scale irrigation equipment has an ERU of
only 101, and this is due to the large difference in financial and economic
prices of vegetables; it is an absolute minimum, as incremental production was
quite conservatively estimated.
Table 8.3: Economic Rates of Return on Farm Models /a
Switching Values /b
Farm Model                   ERR          Costs        Benefits           FRR
(%)         -- Percent Change --            (X)
1.       Tractor and         47.0          +52.8        -34.6       23.4 - 39.3 /c
implements
2.       Small-scale
irrigation           9.6          -0.6         +0.6            27.4
(well and
equipment)
3.       Greenhouses         19.3           +9.6         -8.7            28.3
/a       Not available for the dairy cattle models.
/b       At an opportunity cost of capital of 101.
Tc       Without and with rental.
8.13     Sensitivity analysis on the ERRs gives the switching values of costs
and benefits (percentage changes that would result in a net present value
equal to zero at a discount rate of 101). For the tractor model, large
changes in benefits and costs (benefits down by 351, costs up by more than
501) would be needed to bring the ERR down to 101. For the irrigation
equipment, less than one percent change in either costs or benefits would
yield a 101 ERR. For the greenhouse model, the ERR would fall by about half
to 0l if costs increased by almost 101 and benefits decreased by about 91.
C. Project Risks
8.14     One of the major risks of the Project is that the
institution-building aspects of the Project would be overtaken by events and
would not have their desired effect. BADR could, for example, be pressured
into lending to the EACs and may not be able to protect itself from a
deterioration in its financial situation. In addition, in a situation of
constant change in the structure and function of BADR, it may be difficult to
carry out Master Plana for training and MIS. The Project has sought
3 3ss I :



- 33 -
assurances from Government on protecting BADR's financial situation; it has
also been designed to get an early start on putting into place technical
assistance that would enable BADR to focus on medium term planning required to
develop BADR in a timely way. The Project has obtained assurances that BADR's
interest rates would provide sufficient margins to cover its costs and that
the Banking reform would further strengthen BADR's financial security and
proper functioning.  Third, implementation may b  slow because a number of
agencies involved in procurement are unfamiliar with Bank procedures. While
this risk will be addressed by reaching agreement on standard bidding
documents, close Bank supervision will still be required prior to and shortly
after Project effectiveness.
DK. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01     In order to ensure the timely and effective completion of the
project, BADR and the Bank have agreed that:
(a) tte Master Plan for the MIS would be completed and submitted to the
Bank by no later than March 31, 1989 (para 5.07);
(b) the Master Plan for the training program would be completed and
submitted to the Bank by no later than March 31, 1989 (para 5.08);
(c) procurement procedures as described in paras. 5.14 - 5.18 would be
followed;
(d) for agroindustrial subloans the lending criteria listed in para 6.05
would be applied.
(e) BADR would, by June 30, 1989, produce and furnish to the Bank a
revised set of terms and conditions for private sector lending, and,
after discussion with the Bank, would implement these terms and
conditions by no later than June 30, 1990 (para. 6.11);
(f) BADR would submit to the Bank for review a draft medium-term policy
statement by no later than June 30,1989 and after discussion with the
Bank, would finalize and implement the medium-term strategy by no
later than June 30, 1990 (para. 6.12);
(g) BADR would maintain its equity at a level no less than that as of
December 31, 1987; and BADR would maintain its current ratio at a
minimum of 1 to 5, the current ratio being defined as the ratio of
all current assets, excluding short-term loans, to all current
liabilities (para 6.13);
(h) BADR will ensure sufficient provisioning for the risks on all
subloans (para 6.14);
333 1Z



- 34 -
(i)  BADR would establish a policy for writing off bad debts and furnish
this to the Bank by June 30, 1989 and, after discussion with the
Bank, would implement the policy by no later than June 30, 1990
(para. 6.14);
(j)  interest rates would be set each year at a level to ensure a spread
sufficient to cover the financial and administrative costs, including
risks, of BADR's operations (para. 6.15);
(k)  auditors acceptable to the Bank would be hired to carry out an audit
of the accounts during each year of the Project and the auditors'
reports would be sent to the Bank within nine months of the end of
each BADR fiscal year (para. 6.19).
9.02     With the above agreements, the Project is suitable for a loan of
US$ll0 million with a term of 15 years, including a five year grace period.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1992.
3a919



!  - 35 -                              Table I
51TAFr APPRAISAL REPORT
QEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 1: TOTAL PROJECT COST BY YEAR
(DA Million)
1919             1990          Total Cost      EU
Number  Amount   Number  Amount   Number  Amount    %
I.    LElNDING PROGRAm  (1989-1]90)
On-Farm Investmnts A/
-             - H*~~~Md1usaTerm:
. Tractors                             3.595   327.8    3,650   332.0    7.245   659.7    65
. Ploughs. and Other Implewnts         2.539    45.6    2,577    43.3    5.116    91.9    45
* Sprayers                                392    35.4       402    36.3        794    71.6    65
!  Combine Harvesters                     285    73.5       287    74.1        573   147.6    65
M Mowers. Balers, etc.                  1,001    35.3    1,016    35.8    2.017    71.3    65
. Transport                               924   227.9       936   230.8    1,860   458.7    85
Irrigation Equipment                    801    51.7       811    52.7    1,613   104.6    1S
Livestock Equipment                     620    44.1       300    10.7        920    54.8    80
Livestock (Animals)                     485   156.8       100    32.9        585   189.7    85
Greenhouses                                    33.7               35.6              69.5    70
Poultry Equipment                              17.7               17.7              35.3    85
Other                                         126.               135.7             261.      75
SUBTOTAL Medium-Term                   10.a33  1176.0   10280 1040.7   21114 2,2L6.7
- Longa-Te:
Poultry Houses                                 48.0               48.0              96.0    20
Other Construction (Livestock)          413   282.1        30    23.5        443   305.7    20
Small Irrigation                                10.6              12.2              22.7    30
Other                                          21.Z                 .i.7Z   so
SUBTOTAL Long-Term                             362.5             1l8.7              471.0
TOTAL On-Farm Lending Private            10.833 1L53a.4   10.280 1i149.3   21.114 2,687.7
Anro-industries                                    207.1             259.2              466.3    50
TOTAL Lending - Base Cost                        1.74S.5           1.408.5           3 154.1
- Price Contingencies b/                           197.0             147.0              394.0
TOTAL HLLT Lending Private                       1.942.5           1,60S.S            3.54a.l
II.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
- Training Program                                   8.8               8.9               17.7
- HIS                                               61.6              61.7              123.3
- Technical Assistance                               0.L7Z            Q .1.5
SUBTOTAL Institutional Development               Z.L2               Z1                142.5    99
- Price Contingencies kI                             AAA               4-5                9-
TOTAL Institutional Development                     ZL7.              7L.8              15
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              2,018.3            1,681.3            3.699.6
&/  Medium and long-term includes farmers' own contribution, estimated at 30% except for irrigation
equipment which includes cost of wells, for an estimated contribution of 75%.
On international prices              5.3    5.3
On local prices                      15.0   1S.0
3572E/p 6



a-u
- 36 -
STAFF APMISAL UNIT
0UOW TIC AND POFAIO  UPU IC OF ALCED1A
AICULTUIAL CIIT PNICT
Table 2: TOTAL PUOJECT COSTS
..................... .......... ...  --_.-.----......................... .. .. . .. .. . .. . . .. . ... . .... . .. ...... .
Local        Foreign    Total         Local   foreign       Total        2 FE    ISa"
----...----04 DAmilioen  -------       --------USSaI      --itti.                Cost
..................... ...........----------............................  -  -.... ........ ... ...................
LENDING PIOOSM (1969-19M)
On Fa  Invstmnts
..........
. Tractors                               230.9      428.8   659.7               35.5    66.0   101.5            65         21
. Piushe 0  Other lIpiaments              50.5       41.4    91.9                7.8      6.4     14.1          45          3
Sprars                                   25.1       46.6    71.6                3.9      7.2    11.0           65          2
. Cembf    Nerverster                     51.6       96.0   147.6                7.9     14.8    22.?           65          5
owers, Ears. etc.                        24.9       46.3    71.3                3.8      7.1    11.0           65          2
Transport                               68.8      389.9   458.7               10.6    60.0    70.6            a5         15
Irrigation Equipmsnt                    65.9       15.7   104.6               13.7      2.4    16.1           15          3
. Livestock Equipmt                       11.0       43.8    54.8                1.7      6.7      8.4          s0          2
Livestock (Animis)                       28.4      161.3   189.7                4.4     24.8    29.2           85          6
. GreeC rouse                             20.9       48.7    69.5                3.2      7.5     10.7          70          2
. Poultry Equlpnt                          5 3       30.0    35.3                0.8      4.6      5.4          85          1
Other                                   65.5      196.5    261.9              10.1    30.2    40.3            75          a
IUTOTAL NeiuA.Term                         671.8     1544.9  2216.7              103.4   237.7   341.0            70         70
....-     ---      .....      .        ....     --       ..
-Long- Term:
.Poultry lluea                            76.8       19.1    96.0               11.8      2.9    14.8           20          3
.Other Construction (Livestock)         244.5        61.1   305.7               37.6      9.4    *.0            20         10
.Smll Irrigation                          15.9        6.8    22.7                2.5      1.0      3.5          30          1
.Other                                    23.3       23.3    46.7                3.6      3.6      7.2          50          1
SUBTOTAL Long-Term                       360.6      110.4   471.0               55.5     17.0    72.5           23         15
TOTAL On-Form Lend;n5 Private             1032.5    1655.3  2667.7               158.8   254.7   413.5            62         65
Agro-industries                            233.1      233.1   466.3               35.9    35.9    71.7            50         15
TOTAL Landing - Bae Cost                  1265.6    1886.4  3154.1               194.7   290.5   485.2            60        100
~~~~~.......                   .....    .. .. .  . ... .
- Price Contingenies                       197.1      197.0   394.0               30.3    30.3    60.6            50
TOTAL ALT Landing Private                 1462.7    2085.4  3548.1               225.0   320.8   545.9            59
... .      .....    .....              ....     . ...    ....
1. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPENT
-Training Program                            1.5       16.2    17.7                0.2      2.5      2.7          90
-"IS                                                  123.3   123.3                        19.0    19.0           100
-Technletl Aistance                                     1.5      1.5                        0.2      0.2          100
. ...      .  - -               ...               ...     .    . ...
UBTOTAL Institutional Dvlopment              1.5      141.0   142.5                0.2    21.7    21.9            99
-Prics Contingmniel                          0.1        8.9      9.0                        1.4      1.4          99
TOTAL Institutioalt Dewlopmnt                1.6      149.9   151.5                0.2    23.1    23.3            99
..       ...      ....               --.     ..        .....
TOTAL PtOJECT COST                        14.3    2235.3  3699.6                 225.3   343.9   569.2            60
uuu.s-     _--s..   *_-_s               _---    *--s.a    *-5           _



STAFF APRRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERI
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PA0JEIZ[
TABLE 3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan a/
Bank Disbursements I/___   Relevant Profiles
IBRD                Semester                 Disbursements             Cumilative Disbursement at         Bankwide              ENEMA Agri.
Fiscal              Ending                   During Semester               End eF Semester                Ag. Credit            Credit
Y2ar                                           (US$ million)         (US$ million)      S of Total           S      (Cumtlative)   X
1989                - Oecember 31. 1988               -                       -                -                1                     1
- June 30, 1989                   4.0                    4.0              4                4                      3
1990                - December 1989                  10.0                   14.0              13              10                      8
- June 1990                      15.0                   29.0             26                19                    1S
1991                - December 1990                  15.0                   44.0             40                29                    23
- June 1991                      20.0                   64.0             58               40                     32
1992                - December 1991                  1S.0                   79.0              72               S1                    41
- June 1992                      15.0                   94.0             85               61                     51
1993                - December 1992                  16.0                   110.0            100               70                    59
- June 1993                                                                               78                     68
1994                - December 1993                                                                            85                    75
- June 1994                                                                               91                     81
1995                - December 1994                                                                            95                    87
- June 1995                                                                               99                     92
1996                - December 1995                                                                           100                    96
- June 1996                                                                                                       9
1997                - December 1996                                                                                                 100
3572E/p.1
a/  Expected Completion Date December 19l.
Expected Closing Date December 1992.
_/ For a three-year commitment period, instead of the four to five years under disbursement profiles.
0r



- 38
Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 4: National Production and Incremental Production
from the Project
Annual Incremental
1985/86 National          Production at Full
Production  a/               Development
Product                       (lOOOt/UF/l)           (lOOOt/UF/l)      S of 1985/86
Production
Cereals:
-    Wheat
(durum and soft)         1,400-1,650           16.5            1.0-1.2
-    Barley                   1,350                  12.3            0.9
Fodde.i Crjps:
-    Vetch-oats                                       2.1
-    Berseem                                          1.8
Fruits and Vegetables:
-    Open field  )                                    7.6 b/
-    Greenhouses )            2,000-2,500            13.0            0.8-1.0
Milk:                              700-900,000             71,000        8-10
Meat:                              50-65                  4.0 c
a/ FAO/USAID estimates
b/ Of which 5,000 tons of potatoes.
c/ liveweight.
3 3t I



- 39
Table 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 5: Financial Rates of Return to Farmers
on Subprojects
FRR to                Sensitivity
total resources   Operating Costs    Benefits
(S)              up 102          down 10%
Investments /a
Model 1: tractor and implements
- without rental                         23.4             19.9               19.6
- with rental (at full capacity)         39.3             34.0               33.,5
Model 2: well construction and
irrigation equipment                       27.4             22.9               22.4
Model 3:  greenhouses                        28.3              17.8              16.7
Dairy cattle models: b/
- 12 cow units                           26
- 26  "                                  36                 ------- n. a. --
- 49  "    "                             44
/a Details of the financial analysis are presented in Annex __,
Implementation volume.
/b Staff Appraisal Report, African Development Bank, November 1986 (no
sensitivity analysis results given).
33913



- 40                          Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
ALGERIA
STAFF APPRALSAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SECTORAL ISSUES RELEVANT TO AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Reform of the Socialist Sector
1.       In late 1987 Government began to dismantle the socialist sector by
breaking up the DASL' into privatized groups of farmers. The 3,400 DAS were
formed into about 23,000 units, including both groups of farmers -- EACs -
exploitation agricole collective -- (about 20,300 were formed) and
individuals, EAIs = exploitation agricole individuelle -- (about 2,300 were
formed). This dramatic restructuring will affect all sectoral activities as
well 3S the role of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has up to now focussed
on its planning function, primarily for delivering services, inputs and funds
to the socialist sector. In addition, many practical, financial, and social
aspects of the restructuring will have to be sorted out, so that the next
several years will be a time of continuous adjustments to the new reality of
fully privatized farming.
2.       The restructuring also affecLs all agricultural services, supplying
research results, extension advice, input delivery, mechanization, and credit
to the farming sector. These are discussed below.
Agriculture Inputs and Farm Equipment
3.       At present Government still controls official marketing of inputs and
equipment.  Amounts available for distribution by province and between the
private and socialist sectors were, until 1987, decided by centralized
planning at the beginning of the cropping year. As a result of the
Government's focus on the socialist sector, access by individual, small-scale
farmers (private farmers) has been less than proportional to the area
cultivated. It has, however, been improving in recent years, as shown by the
table below:
Table: USE OF INPUTS AND EQUIPMENT BY FARMING SECTOR,
1980 AND 1985
(Percent)
1980                          1985
Private     Socialist         Private     Socialist
- Fertilizer use             35            65              42            58
- Fungicide use              35            65              65            35
- Tractor purchase           26            74              75            25
- Area cultivated            50            50              57#'        43/
a/ From 1984.
1/ DAS: Domaines Agricoles Socialistes.
33S1I



- 41 -                          ANNEX I
Pane 2 of 4
4.       The multiplication and quality control of certified seeds are
inadequate to meet demand and this may in part account for the low yields.
Fertilizer delivery has been interrupted by problems of the domestic
manufacturer, ASMIDAL, and is definitely in short supply. Delivery of
insecticide to the private sector has been hampered by bulk packaging, which
makes retail sales to small scale farms impractical. Finally, the demand for
farm equipment, particularly tractors, is greater than the supply, and
individual, small-scale farmers sometimes wait up to two years before a
request can be filled; problems with spare parts, after sales service and
repairs have been co m  n.
5.       Government has made a concerted effort, particularly for farm
equipment, to channel increasing amounts to individual, small-scale farmers.
In addition, private marketing at the retail level for certain items, such as
insecticide, is being gradually introduced and a number of private dealers is
allowed to sell spare parts and do repair work for farm equipment.
Nevertheless, the marketing system needs further improvement to increase the
quantity and quality of inputs and equipment available to the farming sector,
especially now that the socialist sector is being privatized. The demand for
inputs and for farm machinery in particular may be even greater than in the
past, and sufficient quantities delivered in a timely fashion may determine
the success of the agricultural reform. A joint UNDP/Bank effort is underway
to identify some of thc major constraints in fertilizer marketing, and the
Bank may participate in a follow up project. The European Community is
providing technical assistance and financing to improve pesticide and seeds
production and marketing.
Agricultural Extension
6.       The area cultivated by individual, small-scale farmers, which
accounts for over half of the cultivated area (see Table above), is not
covered by a functioning extension service. The individual, small-scale
farmers are in principle served by agricultural staff at the sub-province
level (Delegation de l'Agriculture du Daerah, DAD), consisting usually of a
professional, one or two technicians and a veterinarian. At the commune
level, one technician is assigned to as many as 4,000 individual, small-scale
farmers. The main duty of the DAD staff is to prepare cropping plans for
farmers who register for input distribution in order to estimate the total
demand for inputs for the season. There are no staff facilities or funds for
extension work and most of the staff time is spent on administrative tasks.
There is little contact with research activities and research recommendations
are not communicated to farmers.
7.       The area farmed by the DAS has been served by technicians from the
provincial agricultural department involved in the day to day management of
the socialist farms. These staff are now eligible to become members of the
privatized collectives. Thus the newly established collectives will not have
an extension service either. Because many of the farmers' groups will not
necessarily consist of farmers who have had experience in managing farms or in
taking technical decisions (most of the members of the DAS were not
technicians), the establishment of an extension service is all the more
critical now that the sector is being privatized.
8.       Government is aware of the deficiencies of the extension system and
in 1985 articulated a national extension policy and structure to put in place
3 33I



-42-                          ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
approptiate staffing and management, to improve the technical content of the
extension system, and to improve contact with the research departments of the
Ministry of Agriculture. UNDP has been involved ina a project to strengthen
the training institute for agricultural technicians and in preparing a
national extension program. The Bank is appraising a project to strengthen
the national research system and the extension service in selected areas.
Developing an effective extension service and gaining the confidence of the
private sector and the groups of farmers are large tasks that can be developed
only over a long period of time.
Agricultural Research
9.       Until recently agricultural research in Algeria was not well
organized, suffered from lack of research staff, frequent changes in
organization and staffing, lack of coordination among different research
institutes and lack of managerial autonomy of research institutes. In
addition, the research institutes have had inadequate infrastructure and
transport facilities. In 1986 the research institutes were reorganized and
their mandates were rationalized. The Insticut National de la Recherche
Agronomique (INRA) was given the responsibility of coordinating the research
of the specialized institutes, in addition to being responsible for basic
research. Priorities for research are being established and a long-term
research program set up. The Bank is planning to participate, in the context
of a research and extension project, to make use of the research results of
the past decade. to strengthen the staffing, facilities, and research programs
in INRA in particular, and to help establish links to the extension service.
This is also a long-term proposition.
Institutional Credit to the Small-Scale Private Farmers
10.      Two issues related to access of small-scale private farmers to
institutional credit are the debt service capacity of the farmers and land
tenure. BADR's ability to reach a significant portion of this sector will
depend greatly on the proportion of farmers who have sufficient cash surplus
from their farms to service their debt. This would apply most particularly to
short-term lending, since most medium and long-term investment should generate
enough surplus to service the loans under most circumstances (poultry,
irrigation equipment and livestock are particular examples). But for
subsistence farmers with small farms, loans for seasonal inputs may not
generate enough surplus to allow the loans to be repaid. The average farm
size in the private sector is about 5 ha and less than 12 of the farmers have
more than 50 ha. Five hectares in a rainfed area with no access to irrigation
or greenhouse production may be the minimum that could produce a sufficient
surplus to service a loan for seasonal inputs. Within the next several years,
BADR should analyze the proportion of farmers likely to be in this situation
so that they can plan their targets realistically, taking into account the
proportion of farmers likely to be creditworthy. This concern does not apply
to the units to be formed, as care is being taken to ensure that the minimum
size of each unit is sufficient to support mechanization and therefore,
presumably, a considerable cash surplus.
11.      A second concern for the individual, small-scale farmer sector is
land tenure. Most farmers do not have title to their land, with the exception
3391K



-43-                         ANNEX 
Page 4 of 4
of those participating in the program to develop the south, where they rgceive
title after five years, provided they have put the land to productive use.
The lack of tenure represents a constraint for long-term lending in that other
sources of aecurity and guarantee must be used. While there was a large
reorganization of land holdings in 1982, this was aimed mainly at
restructuring the socialist sector with little impact on the private sector,
except that about 750,000 ha were distributed to individual, small-scale
farmers in the process. The question of land holdings and land titles should
be directly addressed by Government in the near future to encourage the
long-term development of privately held land.
Institutional Credit to Farmers' Groups (EACs)1'
12.      This represents the single largest challenge to the credit
institution, BADR, in the near future. While having a lot of pressure to lend
to the EACs to ensure their ability to function, BADR will also have to limit
its risks. It will be difficult to estimate, in the early years, the risks of
lending to newly established structures run by farmers who have not
necessarily had experience as technicians or as farm managers. It will be
important to ensure a minimum access to funds for working capital,
sulbsistence, and equipment replacement and expansion, while limiting BADR's
risks to manageable levels. This is discussed further in the body of the
report (paras. 4.09-4.10 and 6.13-6.15).
1/ EAC: Exploitation Agricole Collective.
23915 I



- 44 -                            Annex 2
SrAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Performance under Previous Bank Projects i the Agrncultural Sector
1.       The Technical Assistance/Rural Development Project (Loan 1159-AL) was
completed in 1983 after considerable delays mainly due to lack of commitment,
lack of coordination and poor supervision by Ministry of Agriculture. The
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR No. 5825) concluded that in spite of
the delays, the Project met its objectives of analyzing the wajor constraints
and designing and, in some cases, testing different approaches to rural
development in Algeria.
2.       The Bas Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan 1802-AL) was 80Z completed
when the Bank nd the Government agreed to close the Loan in 1985, two years
after the closing date foreseen at appraisal. Delays occurred after bidding
when no offers or expressions of interest were received for the civil works
because of their modest size. They were finally carried out by a local public
enterprise and were completed in 1986. The Project financed a Master Plan for
the Cheliff River Basin, which formed the basis of a follow-up irrigation
project (see below).
3.       The Meat Industry Project (Loan 1739-AL) became effective over two
and a half years after Board approval because of delays in meeting conditions
of effectiveness. It was cancelled in 1983 at the Government's request, about
a year after the loan became effective; no reasons were given. PPAR No. 4946
notes that the cancellation may have been due to an unforeseeable change in
Government's policy on red meat supply and marketing rather than a problem of
project design or justification.
4.       The Cheliff Irrigatic- Project (Loan 2809-AL), approved by the Board
in 1987, involves extension and rehabilitation of a total of 13,000 ha and is
proceeding satisfactorily. It is designed to improve operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation schemes by supporting the autonomous
agency set up for that purpose and during the Project's implementation, O&M
costs are to be fully covered and capital costs partly recovered by water
charges.
3291t 



- 45 -                        Annex 3
Pate 1 of 12
STAFF APPRAIAL REPORT
ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
La Banque de I'Agricuture et DdveloPpement Rural
A. Bacg         Orization and Staf
1.       Creation of BADR.  Prior to 1982, all credit for agriculture was
chAnnelled through the BNA which financed commerce and industry as well as
agricultural activities. For agriculture, BNA served mainly as a channel for
Government funds to be passed on to the DAS and agrarian revolution farms,
except for short term credit, which was financed by BNA's own resources.
Because of centralized planning and the problems of availability of farm
equipment, only about half of the amount of credit allocated was actually used
during the 1970's and early 1980's and credit recovery was poor.
2.       In order to redress some of the problems, Government created the
Banque de l'Agriculture et de D-veloppement Rural (BADR) in 1982 from the
existing BNA. The objectives of creating a separate credit institution for
agriculture were:  (a) to mobilize increased amounts of resources to channel
to the agricultural sector; (b) to provide greater access, particularly for
the orivate sector, to credit; and (c) to ensure that BADR, charged with
financing the agricultural sector, would develop a system for assessing
financial risks of its clients and their proposed investments and that it
would improve credit follow-up and recovery.
3.       Organization and Staffing.  Until 1988 BADR was under the supervision
of the Ministry of Finance, which nominated the members to BADR's Board of
Directors.l/ The Board is chaired by the General Director of BADR and
consists of two Deputy General Directors and six representatives from various
ministries (Agriculture and Fisheries, Commerce, Hydraulics and Forestry,
Light Industry, Planning, and the State Secretariat). BADR is managed on a
day to day basis by a management board, consisting of BADR's twelve directors,
two Deputy General Directors and the General Director. An organization chart
of AADR is at Annex 3, Appendix 1. The horizontal nature of BADR requires
changes for more effective management, and BADR is in the process of a
reorganization to reflect the changes in the agricultural sector.
4.       When BADR was established in 1982 it inherited 140 branch offices
from BNA; since then the number has grown to over 200. These branch offices
are organized under 29 regional offices at the provincial (wilayat) level and
two central offices (see Map No. IBRD 19976). With a total staff numbering
about 5,300, BADR is the largest bank in terms of number of branch offices and
personnel in Algeria. Both its size and the extensive nature of its network
present managerial and organizational challenges which BADR is addressing
through policies of decentralization, management by objectives, and an
incentive system, based on profitability of operations.
1/ Starting in 1989, with the implementation of the Banking Law and its
amendments, BADR will be an autonomous bank, under supervision of the Central
Bank.
32S1I



- 46 -                        Annex 3
Pane 2 of 12
3.05     About 42 of the total staff are in management positions, 12X are
professional level, 401 are categorized as technicians, and the remaining are
support and service personnel. Staff training is a priority at BADR and the
training department organizes short-term orientation and continuous in-service
training as well as sending staff to outside institutes for training in
specific areas. The department suffers from a lack of a long-term training
plan and from lack of funds. As their training needs are large, particularly
in view of their changing role and increased responsibilities, a Project
Preparation Facility has been provided to develop a long-term training program
and begin the process of training BADR staff as trainers. The Project would
continue to support the training needs once the overall framework has been
established.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
nI
6.       Planned Credit (medium and long-term credit).  Until 1987, the
amounts of credit allocated each year to agriculture to be channelled from
Treasury though BADR were determined on the basis of centrally established
objectives for areas and crops to be developped.  These were considered
together with proposals by provincial agricultural services for on-farm
investments, predominantly in the DAS. Because of the delays involved in
matching financing requests with national objectives and availability of the
investment goods, only about 60 - 701 of the credit amounts allocated in the
national budgets have been actually used.
7.       This system has created problems for BADR to the extent that the
investments and DAS would not necessarily be creditworthy if subject to
standard banking analysis and demand for guarantees. The DAS were, until
1987, guaranteea by Government and the basic question of creditworthiness was
not addressed under this system. In fact, over 50X of the 3,400 DAS made
losses since their restructuring in 1982. Starting in 1987 the DAS were
dissolved, and privatized farmers' groups were established. Where before
3,400 DAS farms existed, about 23,000 new, smaller units have been set up.
See Annex 1 for a description of this reform. As a result of this fundamental
change in the agricultural sector, BADR faces a tremendous change in the scope
of its mandate. In addition, BADR is now autonomous, so that loans to all
farmers, and other sub-borrowers, are no longer guaranteed by Government. As
of 1988, there is thus no more "planned credit".
8.       Unplanned Credit.  All loans made from BADR's own resources, that is,
not from Treasury Funds, were considered unplanned (non-planife) credit.  All
short-term credit is unplanned, from BADR's own resources, and since 1985 a
small amount of medium-term credit to the private sector has also been from
BADR's own resources. BADR financed seasonal loans to DAS for advance
payments on inputs, operating costs and salaries, and to marketing bureaus and
cooperatives for purchase of inventory and salaries. The DAS produced farm
plans and financing plans that had the technical approval of the provincial
agricultural service. This was, however, to some extent a formality. The
seasonal credit was, until 1987, virtually automatic as was the extension of
overdraft facilities: the socialist and public sector had no other source of
financing and BADR's refusal to finance a DAS or public enterprise would have
meant its inability to function.
339II



- 47 -                        Annex 3
Page 3 of 12
9.       In addition to seasonal credit, BADR extended virtually unlimited
overdraft facilities to the DAS. All loan arrears and all operating deficits
of DAS were rolled over into short-term overdrafts. The same system applied
to cooperatives and marketing bureaus. Since taking over the accumulated
overdraft of the socialist and public sector from BNA in 1984 (when the
accounts were finally settled), the DAS overdraft grew from about
DA 12 billion (US$2.3 billion) to about DA 15 billion (US$3.2 billion) at the
end of 1986, representing almost 30 of BADR's total assets.l/ As in the case
of medium and long-term credit, BADR had little discretionary power with
respect to the socialist and public sectors, in spite of the fact that the
resources for the short-term lending are not advances from Treasury but from
BADR's own resources.
10.      The reform of the agricultural socialist sector together with the
Banking Law of August 1986 changes this system. All banks, including BADR,
are responsible for evaluating the loan applications and creditworthiness of
their borrowers and are equally responsible for the risks of all the loans
they do make. All loans accepted for financing bj BADR are now from BADR's
own resources and any defaults are at BADR's risk. The distinction between
planned and unplanned credit has disappeared.
11.      Norms and Conditions of Loans.  The system of defining the items
eligible for financing, their costs, and the percentage financing available
has been well defined but flexible. For seasonal credit needs, 3ADR follows
the established technical norms on input requirements by crop. Equipment
needs (medium and long-term loans) and some technical norms were mostly
defined by the Ministry of Agriculture.  The norm for a tractor loan, for
example, requires that the farmer show the need for a minimum of 450 hours of
use on his own farm. All prices are fixed at official levels, so total
financing needs were well defined. The public sector, which now consists of
marketing bureaus and marketing copperatives, is financed at 100% of their
needs and the private sector can be financed, if circumstances warrant it, at
up to 100X, although it is usually around 70X. BADR is also willing to
finance any items or activities that contribute to agricultural development in
particular and rural development in general, including, for example, the
establishment of a medical practice in a rural area. A list of investment
goods for on-farm use eligible for BADR financing is found in the
Implementation Volume, Annex 2.
12.      Although farmers are supposed to produce farm plans showing cropping
patterns, investment and financing needs, and have approval of the
agricultural service, in practire this requirement is applied in a flexible
manner, depending on the situation of the farmer. The analysis or judgment of
the loan application is usually based heavily on the viability of the farm
itself and on how well known and established the farmer is in the community.
Internal BADR circulars instruct BADR personnel to maximize the farmer's
contribution and minimize the risk (see Implementation Volume, Annex 2). The
activities financed by BADR have had a good return: poultry, plastic
greenhouses and irrigation equipment are highly profitable activities in
1/ This asset was assumed by Government as part of the DAS restructuring.
See para 25.
3 3 9 I E



-48 -                         Annex 3
Pate 4 of 12
Algeria. Thus, the combination of financing these profitable investments and
selecting few well-established, relatively large-scale farmers has minimized
BADR's risk. For a program of expanded lending, however, BADR should develop
simple norms for different siser of farms for different kinds of equipment
(e.g. tractor implements, combine harvesters, light vehicles) in different
agro-climatic zones and should provide BADR staff with appropriate training to
apply these norms. This would be required if BADR is to reach a larger
portion of the estimated 800,000 - 1,000,000 farmers and be able to service
efficiently the 23,000 newly formed agricultural units in the country.
13.      One constraint on lending to the private sector is the need for
guarantees. Although small-scale farmers may own their land and the new units
will have, after five years, usufruct rights to the land, which can be bought
and sold, BADR does not ask for a mortgage as a guarantee for fear of
encountering psychological barriers and of creating mistrust at a time when
BADR is making a particular effort to establish confidence among farmers. As
a result, BADR has sought other forms of guarantee which include, inter alia,
liens on purchased machinery, life insurance for the amount and maturity of
the loan, fire insurance for buildings, and joint and several guarantees of
co-signers. A Guarantee Fund has been established to further insure against
loss.
14.      For a number of reasons, BADR needs to re-examine its terms and
conditions of loans to the private sector. First of all, BADR has relied
primarily on the Ministry of Agriculture for direction on which activities to
lend for and for the technical requirements of the investments. Now that BADR
has greater responsibility and a larger role to play in financing the
agricultural sector in general and the individua., small-scale farmers in
particular, BADR should take initiative in introducing a wider range of
activities and in developing technical and financial guidelines for the
loans. In addition, BADR should reconsider:
(a) long-term loans to small-scale private farmers, which it hasn't
allowed in the past from its own resources;
(b) a grace period on medium-term loans that reflects the timing of the
cash flows of the investments being financed. At present, no grace
period is allowed on medium-term loans from their own resources;
(c) terms for both medium- and long-term loans that reflect the economic
life of the investment. At present all medium-term loans are for a
period of seven years;
(d) fixed interest rates for each tvpe of loan, which would be a function
of the degree of risk, the term, and the proportion of
investor/farmer contribution. Currently, branch managers have some
discretion, within a narrow bank of interest rates, on the rate
charged. This discretion could in practice be abused and
establishing fixed rates would avoid this problem; and,
(e) penalties and procedures for late payment. At present, late loan
repayments are not charged penalties.
33913



- 49 -                        Annex 3
Page 5 of 12
15.      Interest Rates and Terms.  The interest rates on loans varies from 4
to 7S p.a. for agricultural loans and from 7.5 to 10.5X p.a. for
non-agricultural loans. Certain special programs, such as land development in
remote areas, benefit fron highly subsidized rates (2.5 - 3.5S p.a.), but this
constitutes as small portion of BADR's lending. As a rule, BADR lends at the
higher end of the range of interest rates and its weighted average interest
rate on loans is 7 - 81 p.a. The maturity for short-term loans is up to
24 months; for medium-term loans it is considered seven years, with,a grace
period of either two years for planned credit (Treasury funds) or no grace
period in the case of unplanned credit (from BADR's resources). For long-term
loans made only from Treasury Funds, the maturity is 8 to 12 years, with a
grace period of up to four years. No sanctions or penalties are applied for
late payments.
16.      Lending interest rates were stable in Algeria for a number of years
(from 1979 to October 1986) and as of October 1, 1986 were increased to the
present levels. The interest rate structure should be reviewed, for several
reasons. First, it is unusual to find an interest rate structure where
long-term rates are lower than short-term rates, and especially in the case of
Algeria, where the cost of borrowing internally is likely to increase in the
medium-term, this structure should be changed to reflect t is uncertainty. A
second reason for reexamining interest rates is that for a6ricultare, they are
still below the recent nast (10-12S p.a.) and present and expected future
(I =15Y) inflation rates. Third, the interest rates will need to be examined
in light of BADR's future costs of administration and resource mobilization.
Finally, standardized interest rates should be fixed for each category of
investment and borrower to avoid potential for abuse at the branch level.
These rates are to be revised in early 1989 as a result of a change in the way
interest rates are set. Up to 1988 they were established by an administrative
act by the Ministry of Finance. In early 1989, the system will become one
wherein all banks are free to set their rates, up to a certain ceiling, as a
function of the costs of their resources and of their operating costs.
C. Lending Operations
17.      The total amount of credit lent by BADR between 1982 and 1986 is
shown in Appendix 2, Table 1 and the amount of credit to agriculture from 1980
through 1986 is shown in this Appendix, Table 2. These figures are summarized
in Table 1 below. It is clear that agriculture is the bulk of BADR's medium
and long-term lending (M&LT) program and an important part (45 - 55%) of the
short-term lending. Within these totals about 802 of M&LT lending goes to the
socialist and public sector as does more than 951 of short term lending.
These percentages reflect the difficulty of access by the private sector to
credit and the bins, up to recently, of BADR's services to the socialist and
public sectors. In addition, M&LT lending to the private sector was limited
to medium-term lending, except for certain well-defined programs such as
poultry and dairy development and the Accession a la Propriete Fonciere
(Access to Land Program). This is due partly to problems of guarantees
(para. 13) and partly to BADR's efforts, up to now, to minimize risks of
lending from its own resources.
33313



-50 -                         Annex 3
Page 6 of 12
18.      Within agriculture, an effort has recently been made to lend
resources to the private sector. The amounts, although remaining under 201 of
M&LT lending and about 2 - 5S of short-term lending, have increased at an
average annual rate of more than 302 per year for M&LT lending and by more
than 80% per year for short-term loans, and certain programs have had notable
success, such as poultry development and greenhouse production. Thus while
the proportions are still considerably less than either the farming population
or the farming areas covered by the private sector, even taking into account
that a large proportion of the individual, small-scale farmers may not be
eligible for credit, there has been some improvement.
19.      The number of individual, small-scale farmers using credit has
increased fivefold since 1982, from 9,200 to about 50,000 in 1986. While this
is an impressive increase, it represents only 5-6X of the total number of
private individual farms. The number of farmers receiving medium and
long-term credit is even smaller, at about 5,000. Access of the individual,
small-scale farmers can be improved, but constraints do exist to the pace of
BADR's expansion, to the availability of resources, to BADR's ability to
evaluate and monitor lending to the private sector and to the individual,
small-scale farmers' ability and willingness to borrow from BADR.
Table 1. LENDING AMOUNTS, 1983-86
1983     1984      1985     1986
-------… DA Billions 
- TOTAL Medium and Long-Term                   1,222    2,031    2,069    1,824
of which Agriculture                       1,133    1,721    1,855    1,579
- TOTAL Short-Term                            24,583   24,929   30,406   30,262
of which Agriculture                      11,458   11,363   15,335   16,066
- TOTAL Lending                               25,805   26,960   32,475   32,086
of which Agriculture                      12,591   13,094   17,026   17,645
3 3311 



-51 -                         Annex 3
Page 7 of 12
20.      Loan Recoveries.  Table 2 below shows the recovery rates for the
socialist and public sector and private sector for the short-term only.  As
noted above (para 9), all overdue M&LT loans to the socialist and public
sector were rolled over into short-term overdrafts and thus appear to be 100X
repaid. The recovery rates for private (individual farmer) sector borrowing
are acceptable, and this can be attributed to BADR's careful selection to date
of those farmers eligible for credit. The challenge for the future as BADR
expands its lending in this sector will be to maintain good repayment
discipline. The figures below reflect repayment of that year's credit only
and not the accumulated unpaid or overdraft. Information is not available on
the age structure of the arrears.
Table 2: LOAN RECOVERIES: SHORT-TERM LENDING
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986
------------ percent -----       …__
Socialist farms /a           65        56       67        69       84       n.a.
Private farms               n.a.      n.a.      92        92        90      n.a
/a  Figures on public sector (cooperatives and marketing bureaus) not
available.
D. Financial Situation and Performance
21.      Resources.  The balance sheets of 1982 through 1986 are presented in
Appendix 2, Table 3 and the resources are summarized in Table 3 below for
1986. Since 1983, the first full year of BADR's operation, total resources
have increased from DA 40.6 billion (US$8.6 billion) to DA 57.8 billion
(US$12.3 billion) in 1986. This increase has been due mainly to the increase
in deposits, particularly sight deposits, from DA 15.8 billion to
DA 25.8 billion between 1983 and 1986, for an annual growth rate of about
18X. The other notable area of growth has been in reserves, which have
increased because of the retention of profits, to DA 2.7 billion by the end of
1986. The total debt to equity ratio is about 13.3:1 and as most of the debt
is short-term (except for about DA 1.7 billion of foreign loans,
DA 3.4 billion of term deposits and 5 year domestic bonds), the medium and
long-term debt to equity ratio is less than 3:1. In the near future this low
leverage will increase somewhat, as BADR will receive funds from other
international organizations such as the African Development Bank (for about
US$0.4 billion), but provided that there is no major erosion of its reserves,
BADR still has ample borrowing capacity with respect to the impact on its
financial leverage.
3.91 



-52 -                         Annex 3
Pase 8 of 12
22.      Deposits.  As noted above, deposits have grown rapidly since BADR's
inception, and in 1986 represented about 45X of total liabilities. As the
result of a conscious effort on the part of BADR to attract long-term
deposits, term deposits have grown faster than sight deposits but it has also
meant an increased cost of resources because they are paying 7% on five-year
bonds and 5-9S on term deposits; this compares to no interest paid on sight
deposits. The sight deposits are dominated by those of the public sector,
which was obliged until 1988 to keep accounts at BADR. Because these were
relatively large accounts, from the marketing bureaus, cooperatives and DAS,
the cost of operating them was not high, with the exception of the DAS
accounts, which required particularly laborious accounting -- BADR served
essentially as the DAS' internal treasurer. Thus BADR was virtually assured a
low cost of funds. This will change with the introduction of the autonomy of
enterprises, which allows public enterprises to choose their bank and possibly
the form of their liquid assets as well. BADR now has to compete with other
banks, either by offering compensation or better service on the accounts. In
either case, the cost of these resources is likely to increase.
Table 3: BADR RESOURCES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1986
DA Millions            2 of Total
- Authorized Capital                     1,000                     2
- Reserves                               2,665                     5
-   Total Equity                         3,665                     6
- Provisions for Credit RiskL'             184                     -
- Sight Deposits                        20,289                    35
- Term Deposits                          5,523                    10
- Loans                                  1,689                     3
- Rediscount and other banks            12,056                    21
- Treasury advances and other           14,364                    25
Total Liabilities                    54,105                    94
TOTAL                                57,771                   100
1/  Includes only statutory provisions for credit risk.  Additional provisions
are made for loans to the private sector that are in arrears; they are
part of extraordinary expenses and do not appear on the balance sheet. At
the end of 1986 these equalled DA 118 mn and represented about 801 of the
total private sector loans in arrears.
33213



- 53 -                        Annex 3
Page 9 of 12
23. Sight deposits from the private sector account for less than 20S of total
deposits, and this is in spite of the large network of branch offices
throughout the country. This may be due to two reasons: one is that BADR was
automatically the banker for the public and socialist sectors, so that BADR's
resource mobilization was effortless and the second is the tendency by the
private sector to keep wealth and other surplus in other forms than in bank
accounts. Considerable potential may exist to mobilize the resources of the
private sector, and BADR should, as part of a medium-term strategy, attempt to
estimate the potential.
24. Other Resources. BADR has relied on the rediscount facility at the
Central Bank for short-term resources, and supplemented this by borrowing in
the money market (among banks) and, as a last resort, by making use of an
overdraft facility at the Central Bank. While this has permitted BADR to
remain liquid in a situation where a large amount of its loans are not being
repaid by the public and socialist sectors, this situation is likely to change
under the reformed banking system. Once the Government introduces the Plan
National de Credit, where banks may be faced with quantitative restrictions
both for rediscounting and for overdraft facilities, BADR would be required to
recover a greater portion of its loans to the public sector or to face a
liquidity problem. Since the Plan National de Credit is not yet in operation,
it is difficult to predict to what extent BADR's operations are likely to be
affected. Nevertheless, BADR's future access to short term resources will no
longer be automatic as in the past, and it will have to make a special effort
to mobilize resources on its own.
Loan Portfolio Quality.
25. An important aspect of BADR's loan portfolio has been the overdraft held
by the socialist sector, which continued to grow each year as the unpaid M&LT
loans were rolled over into a short-term overdraft. At the end of 1986 the
amount stood at DA 14.9 billion, representing about 261 of BADR's total
assets. Because these loans were guaranteed by Government, interest accrued
each year and was included as part of BADR's income. As a result, BADR's
assets and income continued to grow on the strength of the Government
guarantee. In 1987 Government assumed, as part of the DAS restructuring, all
the past outstanding debts of these farms.
26. Provisions. BADR has two sources of provisions: one is a statutory
requirement to provision for credit risk, and this appears in the balance
sheet and in Table 3 above. In 1986 these provisions were equal to
DA 184 million, representing about 82 of the credit granted to the private
sector but only 0.3X of total credit granted. In addition, BADR makes
provisions for bad debts, which it accounts for as extraordinary expenses
("charges hors exploitation"), relating explicitly to private sector loans in
arrears. In 1986, DA 35 million was put aside, to bring the total to DA 118
million. This amount represents about 80Z of the total arrears (of DA 147
million) of the private sector.  Because all loans to the public and socialist
sector were guaranteed by Government, these provisions were adequate to cover
BADR's lending risks. Now that the situation has changed, however, and BADR
is responsible for all loans, BADR mutst allow for much greater provisions than
3S291



- 54 -                        Annex 3
Pase 10 of 12
in the past; this in turn will have a large impact on the margins realixed by
BADR.
27.      BADR has to date written off none of the loans in arrears.  Because
BADR is such a new institution and lending to the r-ivate sector a relatively
recent activity, the bulk of the iedium and long-term loans are still under
the grace period; nevertheless, BADR should develop a policy to deal with
short-term loans in arrears, including imposing penalties for late payment, as
well as a policy to write off certain loans after a sufficient period of
non-payment.
Overall Operating Results and Profitability
28.      BADR has realized a net profit since 1983, the first full year of
operation. Its income has grown rapidly and profits have kept pace with this
expansion, as shown in Table 4 below. Detailed accounts are found in
Appendix 2, Table 4. Staff costs have decreased, from an initial level of 242
of total costs in 1983 to 131 of total costs in 1986, while financial costs
have=increased considerably, from 22% of the total in 1983 to about 70% of
total costs in 1985. The average gross spread in 1986 between the costs of
resources and interest on loans is narrow, at about 3.22, compared to similar
lending institutions in other countries, where margins are estimated at 4-62.
In spite of this, BADR has had high rates of return on equity, from 201 to 352
*uet-weeil 1,I-3 arid 1986.  IhL C ass: LWO reasona Lor Lhis record.
29.      First, BADR has had relatively low operating costs for an
agricultural credit bank. The bulk of the loans has gone to the public and
socialist sectors, where the amounts are relatively large and the granting of
the credit automatic. No analysis has been required because the loans have
been guaranteed by Government. The second and more important reason for
BADR's profitability is that because the loans to these sectors are backed by
Government, no provisions for bad debts have been made and no loans have been
written off. At the same time, the growing overdraft of the socialist sector
continued to accrue interest, and at an average rate of 4.51 p.a., this
overdraft has accounted for DA 400 to 500 million in revenue, or about 20X of
interest income in 1985. BADR's profitability has made it possible to
increase reserves by more than 1001 in a two-year period.
30.      Now that the DAS overdraft has been taken over by Government, BADR
wil'l no longer accrue interest on it. At the same time, BADR should not need
access to an overdraft at the Central Bank to the same extent as in the past.
On balance, this will mean a decrease in BADR's profitability, since BADR's
recourse to the money market and overdraft facilities cost less, on average,
than interest accrued on the DAS overdraft. Financial projections of the
impact of this change are discussed in the appraisal report in
paras. 8.04-8.06.
3331I



- 55 -                        Annex 3
Page 11 of 12
Table 4: BADR INCOME STATEMENT, 1983-86
1983       1984        1985        1986
---DA Million -            …
Interest Income                        879      1,550      2,457       2,798
Interest Expense                       123        555        918       1,232
Operating Income                       756         995     1,539       1,566
Staff Cost                             151         186       230         227
Other Operating Expenses               357         119       258         325
Operating Expenses                    (508)       (306)     (489)       (552)
Net Other Income                        34          98       126         157
Net Operating Income                   282         787     1,176       1,170
-_!~~~~~~= sz= -==- __=
Net Extraordinary Income               138          28         73         18
Provisions for Credit Risk             (17)        (41)      (62)        (59)
Profit BefOre TAY                      ant         774     1.187       1,129
Tax on Profit                          (81)        (87)     (238)       (320)
Net Profit After Tax                   322         687       948         809
Return on Equity (Z) a/                 20          35        34          23
a/ Equity calculated as average over two years.
E. BADR's Obiectives and DevelopmentStrate.v
31.      The Government has emphasized the role of BADR in the development of
the agricultural sector. As it is a relatively new organization, its primary
objectives involve establishing itself as a financially responsible and viable
institution. The main themes of its development therefore are:
(a)  to establish financial practices which insure long-term viability:
these include, inter alia, determining margins sufficient to cover
the full costs of its operations, including the risks of lending to
both the private and the socialist/public sectors.
(b)  to develop the capacity to analyze loan applications;
(c)  to mobilize resources, especially from the private sector;
(d)  to expand facilities and the internal information system so as to
insure efficient functioning.
3391X



- 56 -                        Annex 3
Page 12 of 12
32.      To enable BADR to follow these themes in a systeuntic and efficient
way, BADR should develop a medium-term strategy that defines its objectives in
a clear and, where possible, quantified way. A well-developed medium-term
strategy would contain the following elements:
(a) a statement of lending strategy, which would define the percentage of
agricultural farmers to be reached, the targeted amounts, the
priority regions and activities for lending, as well as the targets
for portfolio diversification into agro-industries, non-agricultural
lending, medium- and long-term versus short-term lending.  These
targets would be established in consideration of the potential demand
for credit, the past performance of the portfolio, and any Government
restrictions that may exist on certain kinds of activities;
(b) quantified objectives for resource mobilization, based on estimates
of the resource gap and sources of financing for the gap. The
objectives should serve to minimize the financial and administrative
costs of the resources at the same time that the health of the
financial structure (debt to equity; current liquidity ratios) would
be preserved;
(c) projected targets for margins adequate to cover financial and
reasonable administrative costs, including the full risks of the
lnans and the implicaations on the evolution of lending interest rates
that would ensure BADR's financial health; and,
(d) practical measures to be carried out to meet these targets, including
increased staffing, additional staff training, infrastructure
expansion and changes in the accounting and information system.
These additional investments and operating costs would be taken into
account in BADR's projected cost structure.
33311



INTERNAL AUDIT DEPARTPENT
" - Audit & Financial Control
H - Mbnitorina A Evaluation
ScIALIST SECTOR
ArRICULTURAL FINANCE DEPARTWNT
N - Production
N - Services
N -  a    is and Statistics
PRIVATE SECTOR AGRICULTURAL
FINANE DEPARTIENT
N - Credit
- Protion
PURLIC OFFICE a ENTERPRISE
tz                          FINANCE DEPARTWNT
N  - Agro-industrial Sector
_                     N - Agricultural/Fisheries Bureaus
u                     " - Forestry/Trri.at ion Service
c  PVATE SECTOR  RURAL A
_                     "~~~~~~ - Private Enterprise                             E_ 
u                     "~~~~~~ - Rural DcvaloPRsmL t
I               I     INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS DEPARTELNT
H - Intrnotional Cooperation/Relations
x                N  - Forn1gn Trade                              _C 
2                  N - Forsion Transactions
in         ._ ____                     __          __
z                  TREASURY & FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
_                N " - General Accounting
F     '         I         - Branch Office Accounting                                              _
o                      - - T@a   y rin4 ;                                                                   Fan --M.;  D
_    *                 N - Internal Control
9                ORGANI~~~ZATIOU A DATA PROCESSING
|           PA,R-DEPARTMENT
N - Organization
N - Data Processing Studies
N - Production
'.                      ADMINISTRATIVE A URAHCH NETWI      
2'|                         DEVELOPHENT DEPARTMENT
N - Administrative Affairs
N - fetwork Development
I               I       PLMINC. DOCWEU"TATI  A LEEAL
I                 flE. AMI
I    1 - General Planning & Docsmentation
|-  Leinal Studies and fltsnutes
PER~ELA TAINNGDEPAE1TEUT
N  - Career  evelop_mett
N - fersonuml
N - Trainin|
|ENEAL , RESOURCE oEPARTMENT
N - Infrastructure & Maintenance
N _ Supplies
N - P rnting A ArchiveI



-o8-                                              UEL-
In oft 2
ILE 1J:  Total UNO Lending. 1962-19M6
1982     1963      1964      196S      1966
---------      -millions OA------------
I. MEDIUM AMD LONG TERM
Public Sector
Non-agriculture                                               7 77    29S       167      171
Agriculture      b/                              623         992   1.466    1.494   1,2S7
Subtotal Public Sector                              623      1,069   1.761    1.681   1,428
Private Sector
Non-agriculture                                     a          12      15        27       74
Agriculture                                       120         141     2SS       361      322
Subtotal Private Sector                             128         1S3     270       388      396
Subtctal Medium & Long Term                        751       1.222   2.031    2.069   1.824
II. SHORT TERM
Public Sector
Non-agriculture A/                             9,S00 s/  11,889  13.385   14.76S  13.662
Agriculture      D/                            7,043      11,352  11.113   14.523  15.436
Subtotal Public Sector                          16.543      23.241  24.498   29.288  29.098
Private Sector
Non-agriculture                                    96        236      271       470      534
Agriculture                                        85         106     160       648      630
Subtotal Private Sector                             181         342     431    1.118   1.164
Subtotal Short Term                             16.724      24.583  24.929   30.406  30.262
TOTAL LENDING
Public Sector                                    17,166     24.310  26,259   30,969  30.526
Private Sector                                      309        495      701    1,506   1,560
TOTAL                                            17,475     25.805  26.960   32.475  32.086
1/   Includes marketing bureaus and public enterprises.  Soame marketing bureaus are
agricultural.
b/   Includes cooperatives and DAS.
s/   Mission estimate.



-                                             AME ""X 3
Asmi"dix 2
Pag  2 of 2
TAIL  l:  Total SADA  Lending. 19J2-1986
(Continued)
1982     1983      1984      1965      1986
____--__-------- millions DA------------
LENOING (X)
Short Term                                           96          95      92        94       94
Medi,m and Long Term                                  4           S        8        6        6
Public Sector                                        98          98      97        95       95
Private Sector                                        2           2        3        5        5
Mon-agriculture                                      55          49      52        48       45
Agriculture                                          45          51      48        52       S5
Growth Rate (Annual)                                             42      -4        20       -1
Growth Rate (Cuiulative)                                                                    16
uu*1 E 



-60 -                                hIhIX 3
IMLL_2:   Lending to Agriculture 1980 - 1986
196o      901      1962      1963       1964     1905      1906 dJ
(Estimated)
--------------------- millions DA ---------------------
1   Hd1u  and Lena-te   (H & LT)
Farms (OAS)                489     636       364       862      1.108    1.257    1.2S7
Cooperatives               259      360      239       128        219       19S        -
Offices (marketing)/a       na.   n.a.    n.a.           2        139        42     na.
SUBTOTAL Public:                 748-   79          623      oof      14 11R 49A4R    1257
B.  Private Sector/a             n.a.    n.a.       120       141       255       361 I/  322 hI
SUBTOTAL M & LT              748      996      743                    1, 133  1 LZZI  ass    1.579
2. Short-Te
A. Public Sector
Forms                    4.356   5,439    6,821    6.869        6.416    8.725    9.404
Cooperatives               171      196      222       226        25       193       278
Offices (marketing)        n.a.   n.a.      n.a.    4.257       4.672    5.605    5.754
SUITOTAL Public:               E41Z/C 5J63C5 7. 043/c  lL_iSZ cL            113    I3 -IJ36
S.  Private Sector                77       83        85       106       160       648       630
SUBTOTAL Short-Term            LSfLI   L 1f.B/  Z7.128/_  11 458   123          57    16066
3. T O T A LS
-   Public Sector                  S.275/r 6.631/c  7.666/c 12.344    12.579   16.017   16.693
-   Private Sector                     77      83       205       247       415    1.009        952
Ia  For figures not available for N & LT credit prior to 1983. the mission assumed the amounts
were negligible; this was done for the purposes of finding orders of magnitude.
/h For 195. includes DA 76.9 mn of unplanned medium-term credit; for 1986 includes DA 117 mn
of unplanned medium-term credit.
/I Nay be underestimated by 2.5 - 3.5 bn DA because short term lending to offices for these
years not available.
/4 Estimated at November 1986.



TALE3  SAMR Balance Sheets, 19f,2  19J   A/                                                  ANLJ
(millions CA)                                                             A   nA.iL Z
AS S E T S                                  I 9 8 2         1 9 83         1 9 8 4                                         A C T I F
Cash, central bank, and other banks           779.1           934.7        1.998.8          741.6        1,343.4      - Caisse, Trisor Public. banque
d'sts. banqu s et correspondents
Bills                                       9,862.3        11,729.6       11,536.6        9,627.2       11,406.4      - Portefeuille *ffets
Coupons and securities                          -               1.5            -               -             0.8      - Coupons et titres i encaisser
Secured advances                               31.3           67.9            83.6           44.6          133.2        Avances garanties
Current accounts (debit)                   11,247.0        22,453.0       30,505.3       37,920.2       38,962.7      - CoWtes courants
Sundry debtors                                 13.1           115.3          148.0          281.6           64.3      - Oebiteurs divers
Suspense account and others                   494.3        5,291.4         5,950.0        4.617.5        4,755.7      - Comptes d'ordre et divers
Guaranteed debtorPs                             -               0.3            1.9           110.9       1,003.1      - bebiteurs par acceptations
Fixed Assets                                  0.6              9.5            34..7      _ 54,             101. 5     - Investissements
T 0 T A L             22,497.7        40,603.2       50.259.0        53,398.3      57,771.1          T 0 T A L
L I A B I L I T I                                                                                               P A S S I
Sight deposits and current accounts         8,892.7        13,769.7       20,493.7       22,079.8       20.289.4      - Comptes de cheques  comPtes courants
Banks and correspondents                        -             984.2          564.1        13,881.6      12,055.5      -Banques et correspondents
Otner short-term liabilities                  652.6          951.3         1,189.9         1,136.3       1,545.5      - Comptes exigibles apres encaisse ent
.oans                                           -              -               -              -          1,689.0      - Enrunts
-.ndry creditors                              86,.0         1,870.2        1,640.0          873.3        1,541.3      - Crediteurs divers
tonds and fixed-term deposits                 989.0         1,982.6        1,740.1        5,716.7        5,523.4      - Bons et cOmptes i echeance fixe
',isDense account and others               11,014.9        19,443.7       22,216.7        6,228.8       10,274.8      - Coptes dlordre et divers
Bank icceptance                                 -               0.3            1.9           110.9       1,003.1      - Acceptations i payer
' OvisOins                                      -            261.9           274.5          222.2          255.7 B'  - Provisions
Reserves                                        -               -            450.3        1,200.5        1,784.7      - Riserves
Equity                                          -           1,000.0        1,000.0         1,000.0       1,000.0      - fonds Social
Net profit                                     87.5           339.3          687.        -9-  81           808        - Risultat de l'exercice
T 0 T A L           22,497.7        40,603.2       50,259.0        53,398.3      57,771.1         T 0 T A L
audited
* hich 184 nillion DA are for credit risks and 71.7 million DA are For capital expendittres.



- 62 -
Ano nd1x 2
Tabla 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DDUCRATIC ASO POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
labilmA: INCOME STATEMENTS
-------------OA millions--
-   Loan Interest                                730      1.356      1.994 )  2.63S
-   Interest on Other                              33        24        249
Portfolio Operations
-   Bank Interest                                 45         32         82        41
-   Commissions                                   71        138        132       122
-   Other Income                                   34        98        127       167
Subtotal                          93       1.648      2.584    2.964
-   Extraordinary Income                          147        39        135       160
TOTAL INCOHF                   1060       1.687      2.719    3.124
EXPENDITURES
-   Financial Expenses
I interest an Term Deposits                   63         60        148      245
. Interest on Sight Deposits                  22         1          6fi      88
. Interest on Overdraft                       38        477        70j      899
. Other expenditures                           -          -          I        10
Subtotal Financial                                               12 iS42
-   Provision for Credit Risk a/                   17        41         62        59
-   Administrative Expenses
. Personnel                                  151        186        230      227
. Other Operating                            n.a.        49         37       48
. Taxes and Duties                           n.a.        70        221      227
Subtotal Administrative                       3iO                  iSA
Extraordinary Expenses (including
correction from previous year)                9         11         63       142
TOTAL EXPENSES                     6S7        913      1.S33    1.99S
- Profit Before Tax                              403        774      1.186    1.129
- Tax on Profit                                   81         87        238       320
- Net Proftt after Tax                            322       687        948       809
j/  This is separate from provisions for bad debts; during 1986 OH 35 mn were
allocated for these provisions, for a total amount of DA 118 million at
the end of 1986. These provisions are included in the extraordinary
expenses.
33'1E



FLIIW OF PROJECT FuNDS AND EOUIPENT
Suppliers 4/
Loan Disbursement 1/                   2/                         14
World                            f              3/                         Importing |         1|Distributing
Bank                                              .......... 4Agencies        .....< Agencies 5/
A        A~~~~~~~~A
Loan Repayment                    Sub-Loan                                                  it
|  ICentral |_  C       . ff .  Disbursement                                            .   a                           t
Bank
.                                   .. .                        .. .
> ~~Sub-Borrowers  
Sub-Loan      *
Repayment       *< . -.....
I/ Via Special Account                                                    Ka
2/ On behalf of importing agencies
3/ Repayment by importers to BADR                                         Foreign Exchange Flows
I/ May be domestic suppliers                                              Equipent 'cw    F
I/ May be the same agency that imports                               - Domestc Currency Flows
D



- 64 -                                 AHEX 5
M1~
Renortino ForMt for Annua1  nd S_mi-Annual Roorts
IALL_I:  Amounts Disbursed 9     /
Previous Years bi           Current
19M7            19J              Year
No.   Amount      No.   Anunt    o.   bnount
AIULTURAL CEI
1.   Short-Term Working
Capital Credit
Fellahs
EACs
Agro-industries
Subtotal Short-Term
11. Mediu*- and Lana-Term
A. Fellahs
Tractors & Implaments
Sprayers
Harvesting Equipment
Etc.
Subtotal Medium- and
Long-Term Fellahs
B. EACs
Tractors & Implements
Sprayers
Harvesting Equipment
Etc.
Subtotal Medium- and
Long-Term EACs
Subtotal Medium- and
Long-Term (A + B)
C.  Agro-Industries
By Type of Activity
Subtotal Agro-Indu4L-ies
Subtotal Medium- and
Long-Tern Lending (A+B+C)
Total Lending Private Sector
Agriculture & Agro-Industries
Total BADR Lending for Year
a/   Report at end-year.
W For which data are availaole.



- GS -                                 AhhNX S
Pa  2 of 5
Insprting Format for Annual nd Sami-Annual Reports
IJUL"_: 2    unts Outstandiino    A
--------------OA millin----------
Previous Years bl           Current
1987            198              Yaar
No.   Amunt       No.   Amount   No.   Amount
I.   Short-TermiUbrking Canital
Fellahs
EACs
Agro-Industries
II.  Hediu_- and Long-Term
A. Fellahs
Tractors & Implements
Sprayers
Harvesting Equipment
Etc.
Subtotal Medium- and
Long-Term Fellahs
B. EACs
Tractors & Implements
Sprayers
Harvesting Equipment
Etc.
Subtotal Medium- and
Long-Term EACs
Subtotal Medium- and
Long-Term (A + B)
C. Agro-tndustries
By Type of Activity
Subtotal Agro-Industries
Subtotal Medium- and
Long-Term Lending (A+B+C)
Total Lending Private Sector
Agriculture & Agro-Industries
Total BAOR Lending for Year
if Report at end-year.
W For which data are available.



- 66 -                                AhNEX S
Page It S
R.ogrtino Formt for Annual and Semi-Annual Reports
TABLE:  Recovery Rates   A/
Percent
Previous Years a/           Current
_                   1987            1988             Year
I.   Short-Tnrmlorkina Capital
Fellahs
EACs
Agro-Industries
Subtotal Short-Term
It. Medim Ter
Fellahs
EACs
Agro-Industries
- Bakeries
- Cold Storage
- Food Processing
- Etc.
Subtotal Agro-Industries
Subtotal Medium-Term
III. Lono-Term
Fellahs
EACs
Agro-Industries
- Bakeries
- Cold Storage
- Food Processing
- Etc.
Subtotal Agro-Industries
Subtotal Long-Term
A/   Report at end-year.
De Oeftned as amounts overdue at beginning of the year plus amounts fallen due during the
year minus amounts collected during the year.
.1l . i



- 67 -                                 ANNEX S
An 4 of I
R eorting Formnt for Annual and Smi-Annual Renorts
IABUEA:  Use of World Bank Loan Proceeds   /
USS Million
CatsHuoy                                                Am nunt Disbursed          Aount Available
I.   Equipment for On-Farm
Investmonts
II.  Agro-Industrial Equipment
III. Electronic Data Processing
and Associated Software.
Training and Technical
Assistance
IV.  Training Program
V.   Technical Assistance
VI.  Unallocated
VII. PPF
A/   Report at end-year.
'I91



64                   ~~~~A44EY S
Rnnort1in For t tor Annual and S_i-Annual _ orts
smii-Annual Report   A/
RADR ACTIVITIES   (brief description of each activity)
1.   Progress/problems on procurement under World Bank Project.
2.   Proress on training progrm  -- on Master Plan and ilmml_entation (a
paragraph or two).
3.   Progress on HIS -- Master Plan and implmwntation (a paragraph or two).
4.   Progress on infrastructure development:
Planned for  Completed    Under         Total
the Year     this Year  Construction  Number
Number of Branch Offices
Number of Regional Offices
S.   Changes in internal organization.
6.   Changes in banking laws or banking conditions.
7.   Progress on Resource Mobilization -- special efforts; evolution on term
deposits.
8.   Other conditions/activities/changes relevant to BAOR's general
functioning.
A/   To be not more than S-6 pages.
VI-..



AMSEX 6
Thl e I
PA&& I of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEICIRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 1: BALANCE SHEET PROJECTIONS 1987 - 1991
Actual
1966      1987       1988      1989        1990     1991
--------------------- milligns DA-------------_____
Assets                                                                                               A"tff
Cash, Central Bank,
and Other Banks                     1,343     1,150      2,050     2,750      2,750     2,750   - Caisse, Tresor Public, banque
d'emis, banques et correspondents
Bills                                11,406    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000   - Portefeuille effets
Coupons and Securities                    1          -         -          -         -          -   - Coupons et titres i encaisser
Secured Advances                        133       150        150        150       150        150   - Avances garanties
Short-Term Loans /1 )                38.963    38,463    24,755    26,046    28,412 /Z 31,652 /2  Comptes Courants
M & LT Loans         )                  n/a       912      1,395     2,150      2,570     2,909   - Prets i moyen et long termes
Sundry                                   64        65         65        65         65         65   - Debiteurs divers
Suspense Account & Others             4,756     3,900      3,900     4,300      4,300     4,300   - Comptes d'ordre et divers
Guaranted Debtors                     1,003       500        500       500        500        500   - Debiteurs par acceptations
Fixed Assets                            102    ___0          SOS       365        440       640   - Investissements
57,771    55,370    43,120    46,326    49,187    52,866
Ltabilities                                                                                        Passif                                               0%
Deposits & Current Accounts          20,289    20,000    18,000    20,000    20,000    20,000   - Comptes. comptes courants
Banks & Correspondents               12,056    11,647      2,922     2.923      4.707     8,033   - Banques et correspondents
Other Short-term Lialibities          1,545     1.600      1,770     2,032      2,232     2,472   - Comptes exigibles apres
encaissement
Foreign borrowings /I                 1,689     2,051      2,991     3,085      3,256     2,744   - Emprunts exterieurs
Sundry Creditors                      1,541     1,500      1.500     1,500      1,500      1,500   - Crediteurs divers
Bonds & Term Deposits                 5,523     5,600      6,000     6,406      6,730     7,060   - Bans et comptes i echiance fixe
Others                               10,275     8,000      4,400     4,200      4.000     3.800   - Divers
Bank Acceptance                       1,003       500        500       400        400        300   - Acceptations i payer
Provisions /I                           256       280        581 /A    918 '5  1,041 /5  1.159 /J  Provisions
Reserves                              1,785     2,594      1,492     1.756      2,168     2,621   - Reserves
Equity                                1,000     1,000      2,700     2,700      2,700     2,700   - Fonds Social
Net Profit                              o09      __8       __4         412       .AS         477   - Resultat de l'exercise
57,771    55,370    43,120    46,326    49,187    52,866
Off Balance Sheet Item                                                                               Hors 6i1an
Guarantees and Acceptances /1        14,743    14,500    10,000    11,000    12,000    13,000   - Engagoeents par signatures



- 70 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
Notes to Table 1
/1 See supporting Table 1.1.
/2 Includes write-off of 101 of bad debts from three years previous.
/3 See supporting Table 1.2.
/A Until 1989 this includes an amount of capital improvements (investment in
fixed assets).
/5 Includes provisions for bad debts as well as statutory reserves for credit
risk. Provisions are equal to 3Z of Short-Term and 4.5Z of Medium- and
Long-Term loans accorded to the private sector (including EACs). This
assumes that of the 102 of Short-Term and 15Z of Medium- and Long-Term
loans that have to be written off, 70Z of defaults would be covered either
by property seizure and resale or the Guarantee Fund.
As of 1990 provisions are used against debts written off, in third year
for ST debts after loan disbursements and eight years for M & LT debts; as
follows:
---DA billions---
1990         1991
Bad debt ST write-offs                     266           292
o  of  M E LT                               7            12
273          304
/6 About DA 5 billion of these items are related to DAS operations. As the
DAS are dissolved, this category of guarantees and acceptances would
decrease.



- 71 -
Annex 6
Suoporting Table 1.1
Page 3 of 9
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS BADR   1987-1991
A.  PROJECTED LENOING PROGRAM                          1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
---DA million ------------
SHORT TERM LENDING (ANNUAL) /1
DAS /2                                          9.400
EAC /I                                            670   7,370   8,107   8,918   9,809
Other agric. coops                                330      363      399     439      483
Private farmers                                   750      825      908     998   1,098
Public enterprises                             15.000  16,500  18.150  19,965  21.962
Private non-agriculture                           600      660      726     799      878
Subtotal short term                            26.750  25.718  28,290  31,119  34.231
HEDIUM AND LONG TERM LENDING (ANNUAL)
OAS /Z                                          1,100
EAC /l                                                      70      423     427      431
Other agric. coops                                  10      11       12       13      14
Private farmers                                   277      478      469      245     250
Public enterprises                                 170     187      206      226     249
Private non-agriculture                             75      83       91      100     110
Subtotal MHLT                                   1,632      828   1.200   1,011   1,054
TOTAL LENDING                                     28,362  26,546  29.490  32.129  35,284
Loan repayments
Short term /4                                  27,250  24,426  23,249  25,204  27,724
Medium and long term /j                            720     344      445      591     714
Subtotal loan repayments                       27.970  24,771  23,695  26.795  28.438
TOTAL NET LENDING
Short term                                     38.463  24,755  26,046  31,087  37.002
Medium and long term                               912   1.395   2.150   2,570   2,909
/1  Estimated based on 1986 lending amounts, increased by 10% per year.
/Z  For 1987 only, as the OAS are being dissolved during 1987 and 1988 and all OAS debts
will be taken over by Government.
/3  Using 1986 as a base year, taking off 50% for the salary advances no longer made,
adding back in 30% for loans for subsistence and increasing by 10% per year.
/1  Repayment after 12 months, at 80% of principle in the first year, 10% in the second
and the remaining written off after two years. This covers lending to DAS as well,
which would be taken over by EACs.
/j  Average repayment of principle over seven years, with one year of grace for the
principle. Repayment rate at 85% of amount due in each year with an eventual
recovery rate of 85%. The remaining would be written off after ten Years. Loans to
the DAS would be taken over by Government in 1988 and removed from BADR's accounts.
/k  For 1990 and 1991 includes write off of 10% of short term loans from three years
previous.
3S97E/P.37



- 72 -
Muaaortino Tabla 1.2
FOREIGN SORROWINGS
OA m111ion
Disbursenents                           1987         19"8      1989      1990        1991
Existing foreign loans /1             2.0S1
B Loan (WI Water Supply)                             940
ADO Livestock Loan                                              71       141        141
WU First Credit Project                                         23         30        33
Sub otal                       2.051          940        94        171        174
Repayments
Existing foreign loans /l                                                           686
B Loan (WI Water Supply)
ADO Livestock Loan
WB First Credit Project
Subtotal                           0            0         0          0        686
Net foreign borrowings         2.051        2.991    3.085       3.256      2.744
/I    Includes one loan for DMOo0 an, one for US$300 mn and one for Y11.500 mn.
35§7EP .36



- 73-                                    AMEXLi
PA" 5 f 9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
QDNtRATIC AMD POPULAR RIP         OFLIC Of ALCERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRCJECT
IahlS..Z:   PtOJECTED ICOME STATEMENTS
------------ -----DA   Million--------------
-   Loan Interest'
Short term                               1,619      1.S26      1.678    1.846      2.030
N & LT                                     195        127        129       123        125
Coinissions                                  109        111        125       174        175
-   Interest on Other
Portfolio Operations    )                  234        237        292       290        290
-   Sank Interest
-   Other Income
Subtotal                        2.157      2.001      2.224    2.433       2.620
-   Extraordinary Income                          111        87        173       195        195
TOTAL INCOME                    2.268      2,088      2.397    2,628       2.815
EXPENDITURES
-   Financial Exoenses
I ;nterest on Term DepoSits2                 280        300        320       336        353
I :nterest on Sight Deposits                  50         60         70        80        90
I Interest on Overdraft                        -          -          -                    -
I :nterest on Foreign Borrowings             148        148        148       148        148
, Other expenditures3                        254         77         76       134        140
Subtotal Financial                 732        585        614       698        731
-   Provision for Credit Risk                      38        28         36        40         43
-   Provision for Bad Debts 4                       -       293        336       356        389
-   Administrative Exgnses
Personnel                                 245        270        297       327        359
Other Operating                             so         55         61        67         73
Taxes and Duties                           230        263        289       318        350
Subtotal Administrative                  i        il         647      Z1        Z78
Extraordinary Expenses                       250         65         65        65         65
TOTAL EXPENSES                    1,545     1.559      1,698    1.871       2,010
s=s        ===     =====    =====       ===
- Profit Before Tax                              723        S29        699       757        805
- Tax on Profits                                  125       265        287       304        328
- Net Profit after Tax                           598        264        412       453        477
3391E/p47
3ss



-74 -                            Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
NOTES TO TABLE 2
1/       See Supporting Table 2.1 for details.
2/       At an average cost of 5S  per year.
3/       At 2.75S on rediscount up to DA 4,500 mn and 3.25X on amounts above
that from the money market up to a maximum of DA 4,000mn. Above
that, overdraft facilities would be used at at cost of 61 p.a..
4/       Provisions for bad debts in the private sector have been included in
extraordinary expenses until 1987. As of 1988 they would appear
separately, at a rate of 3% of ST and 4.51 of M & LT loans accorded
to the private sector (including EACs). This assumes a default rate
of 10% on ST loans and 15% on M & LT loans, with 70% of the default
being covered by either property seizure or the guarantee fund.
5/       At 501 of fiscal profit, calculated by adding in accrued (unpaid)
interest from three years ago, deducting accrued (unpaid) interest
from current year. The calculations are as follows:
1987    1988   1989   1990    1991
Profit Before Tax                  723      529    699    757       805
Deduct: Accrued (unpaid)
interest from offices           (800)   (850)  (900)  (950) (1,000)
Add in: Accrued (unpaid)
interest formerly deducted       325      852    775    800       850
three years previously
Taxable Income                     250      531    574    607       655
Income Tax (@ 502)                 125      265    287    304       328
339 I t



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
SuDporting Table 2.1
Paso 7 of 9
PROJECT INCOME STATEMENTS
INTEREST EARNED ON:                Rate X   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
_   ~--- DA million-
DAS                              6.0    564
EAC                              5.5      37      405     446      490      540
Other agric. coops               7.0      23       25      26       31       34
Private farmers                  5.5      41       45      50       55       60
Public enterprises               6.0    900       990   1,089   1,198   1,318
Private non-agricult             9.0      54       59      65       72       79
Subtotal short term                    1,619   1,526   1,678   1,846   2,030
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM LENDING
DAS                              6.0      66
EAC                              5.0                3      24       43       59
Other agric. coops               6.0      17       14       9        7        7
Private farmers                  5.0      56       58      50       31       24
Public enterprises               6.0      39       35      31       28       22
Private non-agricult             9.5      17       16      15       14       14
Subtotal M&LT                            195      127     129      123      125
ate:
OILT Loans in previous yrs.                 1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Private agr. loans                    120     141      255      361     322
Public enterprises                                     285      187     171
Priv. non-agric.                        8      12       15       27       74
7/p. 3*



- 76 -                                  ANNEX A
Iabl  
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AMD POPUILM REILIC OF ALGERIA
AGtICULTURAL CREDIT POECT
T bile3: PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
1987      1968       1989       1990        1991
- ---------- - --_1111millions DA-------------
Net Income after Tax                             598         264       412        453       477
Add In:
Depreciation /Z                              22          25         40         30        33
Provisions /l /2                             24         301        337        396      432
Xncres   n:
Current Accounts                           (289)    (2.000)    2,000            -         -
Bonds and Term Oeposits                      77         400        400        330       330
Banks and Correspondents /]                (409)    (8.72S)          1      1.784    3.316
Foreign Borrowings                          362         940         94        171       174
Other Liabilities                        (2,764)    (3,430)        (38)         -       (60)
Capital & Reserves                            -           -          -          -         -
Total Sources                       (2.379)/i (12.22S)/l  3,246       3.164    4,702
APPLICATIONS
Increase in:
Bills                                    (1.406)          -          -          -         -
Short-Term Loans                           (500)   (13.708)    1.291       2.366    3.240
Medium & Long Term Loans                    912         483        755       _20    3.39
Subtotal                              (994)   (13.225)    2.046       2.786    3.579
Foreign Loan Repayment                                                                      686
Bad Debt write off                                                                273       304
Inc:
Liquid Assets                              (193)        900        700          -         -
Other Assets                             (1,342)          -        400
Fixed Assets                                150         10         100       1i05       13
Total Applications                  (2.379)/4 (12.225)/_  3,246       3.164    4.702
Ratios of Prolected                                                     12        12         11
Financial Cgodition
Debt-to-Equity (leverage) /5                      13.0         9.6       9.5        9.2       9.1
Current Assets to Current Liabilities /f           1.53        1.68       1.61      1.5s      1.48
Risk Assets to Core Deposits /Z                    1.93        1.51       1.45      1.S3      1.6S
Provisions as X of Total Risk Assets /a            0.4         1.26       1.87      1.96      2.01



- 77-                          Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
Notes to Table 3
/1  Includes statutory reserve for credit ri&L and provision for bad debts to
private sector (see fn. /4 Table 1).
/2  In 1987 through 1989 amounts were used from the provisions item on balance
sheet for depreciation (14 mn, 20 mn and 35 mn, respectively). It is for
this reason that the totals of provisions on income statement are larger
than the change in provisions on balance sheet.
/3  Includes rediscount facility, money market and overdraft at Central Bank.
/4  In 1987 and 1988 BADR's balance sheet will be adjusted; as socialist farms
are dissolved, their overdue loans will be removed from the balance
sheet. This will result in a decrease in assets of about DA 15 bn and a
concomitant decrease in use of the overdraft facility and the money
market. Thus large decreases in sources and applications are shown for
these years. Starting in 1989, BADR's lending and thus recourse to
sources of funding begins to grow as its lending increases to the newly
estabiished collective farms.
/5  For 1988 and 1989 total equity included, in addition to equity and
recerves, that portion of provisions which represented amounts set aside
for capital improvements (equal to DA 57 and 37 billion, respectively).
/6 Defined as all short-term assets, including M&LT loans due within 12
months, to all short-term liabilities, including M&LT foreign borrowing
due within 12 months.
/7  Risk assets includes bills, short term and M&LT loans.  Core deposit
includes deposits and current accounts, and bonds and term deposits.
/8  Defined as normal risk assets plus  uarantees and acceptances (off balance
sheet items).



- 78 -                            Annex 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
List of Annexes in Imvlementation Volume and
Working Papers available in Project File
Annexes
I.    Economic and Financial Analysis of Farm Models
II.    List of On-Farm Equipment Subject to BADR Financing and Projections
for 1989-90 lending program
III.    Algerian Banking Law(s) - 1986 and 1988 (modifying Law of 1986)
IV.    Algerian Decree of 1982 establishing BADR
V.    Algerian Decree of 1987 establishing Guarantee Fund for BADR
VI.    Algerian Decree of 1986 establishing terms and conditions of BADR'S
lending and for interest payment on sight and term deposits
VII.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Training
VIII.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Establishing a
Master Plan for the Management Information System
Workiiij Papers in project file
1.    Preparation Report by BADR
2.    Consultant's Report on Financial Situation and Projections
3.    Recueil de textes relatifs a l'investissement priv6 national
4.    Interministerial circular on the reorganization of the DAS
333 13



-36                                                                                                                          a
-~~~~~ *~~~~~~ot  S  *                       .                           a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Et ,
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~S   i,n                   .O t.om.t  *i,a .@                                               t.N).                 
) F      .I f A  
*   o dol                                                                    *                   K  -*E34'
9  NA A M 4                  \    t ~~~~~~~~A G.H OLI T  \,                                                       ?o    ?  0    0  5
t ; @ ~~~~~EL S AY AODH                                                 \                      t
-32'          _,                                                     HRDAIA          /           URf           
/   A L G E.R.I A....n -
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PREMIER PROJET DE CREDIT AGRICOLE                                                                          .ei
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
BANQUE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL                                                         CA'A OBf4PC'A
LOCATION OF BADR OFFICES                                                  'TIndoA
IN
IMPLANTATION DU RESEAU BADR                                                              A  LGE   R IGut;.1
ACtRAP
0 HEADQUARTERS         0 REGIONAL OFFICES    * BRANCH OFFICES       WILAYA BOUNDARIES
AGENCES PRINCIPALES    SUCCURSALE           AGENCES              LIMITATION WILAYA                                        A44ANtASSf7_
0~~~
r                 r                         41'                  61,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                     T



