Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13196
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3009-AL)
JUNE 23, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aothorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC O1' AIGEP7T,
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJE<
_LOAN 3009-AL)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar K
]\t Appraisal (October 1988)    JUSSi = DA  a
Annual Average: 1989    US$1 - DA '1
1990 :  USl A   -
1991    US$ i  DA 18
1992 :T,  _-\ 22,
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BA          Banque d'Algerie (Algerian Central Bank)
BADR        Banque de l'Agriculture et du D6velopp>-"t RuP-v'
Agriculture and Rural Developm-nt Pank
CEO         Chief Executing Officer
CNP         Conseil National de la Planifij->tion
DAS         Domaines Agricoles Socialistes
DTAF        BADR's Financial and Accounting DepRrtment
EAC         Exploitations Agricoles Collectives (Collertive F -
EDIMA       Regional Agricultural Marketing Board
EFSAL       Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment l.oan
ERSL        Economic Reform Support Loan
FDP         Fonds de Participation
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
JEXIMBANK   Export-Import Bank of Japan
MIS         Management Information System
M&LT        Medium- and Long-Term Loans
ONAPSA      National Agricultural Marketing Boari
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SYBU        Universal Banking System
TA          Technical Assistance
BADR's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operatlon. Evaluation
June 23, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Algeria
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 3009-AL)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Algeria--Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 3009-AL)" prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division for the Maghreb
of the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (MNlAG). There is no Project Review from
the Borrower's perspective (Part II).
The outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. The attempt to combine a quick-
disbursing loan for a commodity import program with financial intermediary lending (FIL) did not
work. The FIL objectives were to upgrade the Agricultural and Rural Development Bank (BADR)
and to extend credit for farm equipment to newly privatized farmer groups and individuals. However,
the equipment was selected by the Government before the groups were privatized and some $35
million of tractors were left unsold.
While institutional development objectives at BADR were achieved in part, notably the
introduction of a computerised management information system, BADR's financial performance has
been disappointing. Delays in upgrading BADR's accounting system led external auditors to issue
a disclaimer regarding the bank's accounts and a later assessment by external auditors under a related
Bank operation found that BADR was bankrupt. The sustainability of project benefits is uncertain,
since BADR's continued operation hinges on the Government's continued willingness to provide
infusions of equity.
The Project Completion Report is of acceptable quality, considering the lack of data. An
audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3009-AL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface  .      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  (i)
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  (ii)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE VIEW                                       1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    1
Project Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   1
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . .                   3
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    4
Design    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .    .     .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .  4
Preparation and Appraisal   . . . . . . . . . . .                 4
Negotiations and Effectiveness    . . . . . . . .                 4
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   5
A) Credit Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 5
B) Institutional Development Component    . . . .                 7
C) Project Costs, Disbursements, and Audit    . .                12
Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  12
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  13
Bank Performance   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
Borrower and Guarantor's Performance and compliance
with covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  15
Project Relationship   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
Lessons Learned    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  17
PART II:      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . 19
Overview of the Project    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Development and Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
World Bank Performance during the Project    . . . . . . . . . . .
Conclusion    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
PART III:    STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Table 1   Project Timetable    ..20
Table 2       Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements,
and by category    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table 3       Equipment Purchased Financed by the Loan   . . . . . 22
Table 3   Status of Covenants   ..23
Table 5    :Use of Bank Resources
A)  Staff Inputs   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 23
B)  Mission Data ................ . 24
Table 6       Related Bank Loans   ...  .         .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 26
Table 7       Project Cost and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
MAP:          IBRD 19976R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.l



-1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3009-AL)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for Algeria's Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 3009-AL) for which a loan of US$110 million to the
Agriculture and Rural Development Bank (BADR, the Borrower) with the guarantee
of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, was approved on December
13, 1988. The legal documents were signed on August 31, 1989 and the loan only
became effective on March 29, 1990, because of cross-effectiveness with the
Japan EXPORT-IMPORT Bank's loan of the same amount. The original closing date
was September 30, 1992. The last disbursement of loan proceeds was made on
October 5, 1992, but it was agreed to leave the loan account open until
January 31, 1993. The loan account was finally closed on May 10, 1993 with a
cancellation of US$ 31,667,275.50.
The Project Completion Report was jointly prepared by the
Agriculture Operations Division for the Maghreb of the Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) in
cooperation with the Borrower.
Preparation of the PCR started end January 1993. Parts I and III
were prepared on the basis of information available in the Division's and the
Bank's central files. The main sources of information were: the appraisal
report No 7080-AL, dated November 21, 1988; the Loan Agreement; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank
memoranda; and consultation with implementing officials and staff during a
completion mission performed in May 1993.   At that time comments were made by
the Borrower which are reflected in parts I and III, but were not confirmed in
writing by BADR (Part II).






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3009-AL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Background
1.          Prior to the 1986 oil price collapse, the Algerian economy was
guided and directed by a socialist central planning system driven by
nationalistic policies in the pursuit of economic independence. The powerful
central planning body, the Conseil National de la Planification (CNP) gave
priority to the dominant socialist public sector, and macroeconomic policies
adopted at that time were characterized by large public sector deficits, price
controls, and goods rationing. Centrally managed public enterprises,
operating under pervasive price controls, allocated resources inefficiently.
In agriculture, highly subsidized credit was passed on to inefficient and
badly managed State-owned cooperatives. In the early 70s, the Bank attempted
to renew its lending program in Algeria's agriculture sector with a view to
initiating a change in macroeconomic policies, and the hope was to have a
project that could be processed rapidly within the Bank and disbursed quickly
after signature of the loan. A proposed agriculture credit project was
rejected both by the Algerian Authorities who did not then need the Bank's
money or advice, and by the Bank's Management who realized that with such a
distorted policy framework, and without a coherent country strategy for
Algeria's financial sector development, the rural development bank, BADR could
never hope to achieve its supposed objectives.
2.          In 1986, Algeria's economical environment worsened, as a
consequence of the dramatic fall in world oil prices. This in turn spurred
Government to implement a wide ranging program of economic and structural
reforms to transform the centrally planned economy into one based on the
decentralized operation of markets. The idea of an agricultural credit project
resurfaced, based on the same concept as the earlier rejected project, of
importing commodities to be distributed by state-owned marketing boards.
Confronted with such a deeply distorted policy framework and an inefficient
financial sector, it would have been advisable to provide a more powerful
instrument in support of a broad range of policy and institutional reforms.
Though such an instrument was in preparation, the Bank decided nevertheless to
encourage Government in its move toward a market economy, and to take the risk
of showing support for such reforms through a sectoral project of limited
scope. The hope was that such an effort would pave the way to more extended
Bank support.



- iii -
Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.          The project was prepared at a crucial moment of important changes
in the political orientation of Algeria's economy. Thus, project objectives
must be seen at the three following levels: (i) at the Borrower's level, to
strengthen BADR and helping it to carry out its new mandate of channeling
funds to private farmers with an effective staff and management system; (ii)
at the agriculture sector level, to provide independent farmers and
cooperatives with agricultural and agro-industrial equipment to improve
production and productivity; and (iii) at the macro-economical level, to help
Government implement its reform program, especially in the field of positive
interest rates, privatization of the banking sector, and liberalization of
prices and imports. To achieve the above objectives, the project supported
BADR's activities in agricultural credit operations and institutional
development. The project comprised the following components: (a) Credit
Component: BADR's two-year time slice program of medium and long-term lending
for on-farm investments for about 21,000 farms, and investments in agro-
industry for small-scale private firms which, prior to the 1986 economic
reform, had been starved of credit; and (b) Institutional Development,
including a Management Information System , training, and technical
assistance.
Implementation Experience
4.          On the Credit Component, the Ministry of Agriculture had
established the list of goods to be imported before the agricultural sector
was privatized. Thus, some of the heavy equipment (tractors) previously
ordered for big socialist cooperatives was no longer adapted to the smaller,
newly privatized farmers' groups. When the cost of imported equipment trebled,
due to devaluation and to import tariffs, such equipment was left unsold. The
Ministry of Agriculture also designated the monopolistic public marketing
entities which would import (ONAPSA) and distribute (EDIMAs) such equipment.
The relationship between BADR, these public marketing boards and the sub-
borrowers was not clearly defined, in terms of who would reimburse BADR and
who would supervise the sub-borrowers. The Procurement process has been
handled in accordance with the loan agreement and Bank's guidelines during
project implementation, with sustained contribution from ONAPSA and efficient
support from Bank staff. The initial risk was that the Bank guidelines would
not be followed either because Government would challenge them or would not
understand them. ONAPSA had good technical staff, and starting in early 1989,
fruitful cooperation with Bank staff was established. The results of the
Procurement process, however, are mixed as many items imported (e.g.,
tractors) did not match the market needs and conditions of project
beneficiaries, and because procurement procedures used under this project are
usually not applicable to lines of credit. Agro-industry was undoubtedly the
most promising sub-sector of Algerian agriculture: consumer demand was
enormous, profits were substantial, and the existing private agro-industrial
firms were well managed and eager to grow. As early as July 1989, half a dozen
of these projects were submitted to BADR for analysis and processing.
Unfortunately, only one went through, due to: (i) the discouraging long delays
in sub-loan processing, as a result of a conflict of authority between BADR in
the one hand, and the National Chamber of Commerce, which had the monopoly for



- iv -
approving private investors' investments, and the Ministry of Commerce, which
had the monopoly for delivering import licenses, on the other hand. This
bureaucratic bottleneck should have been resolved at negotiations; (ii) the
very unfavorable macro-economical environment, not conducive to long term
investments; (iii) the majority of the requests had to be turned down because
of unsettled land ownership, unclear partnership arrangements, and
insufficient financial participation by the investors; (iv) reluctance of the
investors to accept Bank procurement guidelines; and (v) the investors'
reluctance to bear the exchange risk, in a very shaky socio-economic
environment.
5.          Concerning the Institutional Development Component, three major
elements can explain the limited results (within the project time frame)
obtained in reaching the project's institutional development objectives:
first, BADR's critical financial situation; second, changes in top level
management and conflicting instructions received by higher level authorities;
and third, the slow initial implementation, as the revised work program
started in mid-1990 (when, coincidentally and because of late effectiveness
and slow initial implementation, the first disbursement of loan proceeds
occurred). In spite of that, some institutional objectives have been
reasonably well implemented. The most successful achievement has been the
implementation of a computerized data processing system covering BADR's
offices and branch network. Also successful, have been the drafting of a
General Policy Statement, and of a Medium-Term Strategy for Lending, as these
two activities were considered the backbone of BADR's institutional recovery.
As a result, BADR imposed strict discipline in granting its funds to farmers.
The result was a sharp increase in the repayment rates of seasonal credits
(not financed by the Bank) since 1991. Because of the priority given to the
computerization of BADR, and because of the sequential order in which the
various tasks had to be performed, the implementation of training activities
and the adoption of an adequate accounting system have only been initiated
during the last months of the project, but are now actively implemented.
Results
6.          Concerning the Credit component, project files do not provide
information concerning the number of project beneficiaries or investments
financed, nor the impact of these investments on their revenues. Moreover,
the lack of detailed information in BADR accounts precludes any analysis of
the portfolio, or of the level of recovery. Unless this information is
furnished by BADR in its Part II of the PCR, it must be assumed that, with
exception of SOTRAPOT, the single agro-industrial investment financed by the
project, whose results were positive, the impact of the project is unknown
(see end of para. 10(d)). With regards to BADR credit activities, however,
some encouraging results on seasonal credit recovery in 1991 were given by the
April 1992 supervision mission: a recovery rate of 82.7% for the EAC and of
75.4% for the individual farmers, a sharp improvement from the 35% figure in
1988/89. This gives an indication that, starting in 1991, the cooperatives and
farmers were selected with more rigorous criteria and thus were in better



- v -
financial condition. One problem is that the tractors purchased under the
Project did not benefit farmers clients of BADR, and most of these tractors
have not been sold.
7.          As for the Institutional Development Component, it was known at
appraisal that reaching project targets was a long-term objective. Moreover,
the legacy of 25 years of central planning had riddled the economy with deep-
rooted distortions and inefficiencies that have proven extremely difficult and
time consuming to correct: BADR's CEO had justifiably complained about these
distortions as BADR was instructed to operate under free market conditions,
but was not given the financial autonomy to do so. In spite of these
difficulties, the results obtained by BADR's new management in a very short
time limit (May 1990-May 1993) is notable: BADR is in the process of
implementing a modern computerized operating tool which, when completed in
late 1994, will help this bank better achieve its economic function once the
structural adjustment process will be completed. Today, this process is
slowly underway, in spite of huge financial and human inputs under an Economic
Reform Support Loan (recently completed), a Technical Assistance Project and
an Enterprise and Financial Sector Loan, EFSAL. The merit of the BADR project
was that it courageously supported initiation of the first reforms in the
financial and agricultural sectors, thus paving the way for future and more
powerful instruments.
8.          As an activity financed by the EFSAL, an audit of the Algerian
banking sector has been carried out recently by the international auditing
firm Coopers and Lybrand. The audit report, presently in the hands of the
Central Bank, has not yet been released, but summarized conclusions concerning
BADR have been obtained, and confirm the two following points: (i) BADR's
financial situation is preoccupying, and a massive injection of cash would be
needed to allow it to regain a competitive position; and (ii) as a banking
institution, BADR has done substantial progress in the way it operates. It has
made a good investment choice (the full computerization of its operations,
extended to its national network of almost 300 units, unique among the banking
sector in Algeria), and has made important investments in physical resources
(hardware and software) as well as in human resources (training) which puts
BADR above its competitors. The auditors estimate that to complete its
computerization program would cost BADR an additional US$ 6.0 million.
Sustainability
9.          Concerning the credit component, the project had a limited impact
in the development of Algeria's agriculture (nor was it the project's
intention to have one): this component was to be implemented over a two year
period, and was considered by the Bank at the time of project design as the
price to be paid for participating in the country's financial policy reforms.
Nevertheless, recent information indicate that credit conditions presently
applied are nearing market conditions and that increased discipline in loan
allocation has improved annual recovery rates. But it has not solved the
problem of past arrears. Also, the project was powerless in redressing BADR's
financial situation which remains worrisome: the recent audit of the Algerian
banking sector confirms that BADR is bankrupt, and that massive recapitaliza-
tion would be needed to allow BADR to compete successfully. But such an issue



- vi -
must be dealt with on a macro-economic level under the auspices of the
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, EFSAL. On the contrary,
concerning the institutional development component, the project certainly
helped BADR modernize its organizational structure and acquire an efficient
management tool which places it on this ahead of the other Algerian commercial
banks and will enable it in the near future to operate more efficiently once
the country's structural adjustment process will have reached a further stage
of implementation, eliminating major economic distortions and allowing BADR's
customers (public or private, agricultural or non agricultural enterprises) to
perform satisfactorily and make profits.
Lessons Learned
10.         The key lessons of the project, for both the Bank and the
Borrower, can be summarized as follows:
(a) Project Justification: Bank guidelines on Financial Sector
Operations suggest that the project should not have been initiated
before an environment conducive to the efficient development of
the country's financial system could be created. If for lending
program purposes it was decided to allow the project to proceed,
it should have been necessary to re-orient its objectives, to
restructure or eliminate the credit component and to concentrate
on institutional strengthening, supporting more actively the
revised timetable and priorities set up by the new BADR's
management, thus paving the way for further restructuring under
the auspices of the on-going EFSAL.
(b) Project Design: an important objective of the project was to
promote the development of BADR and a secondary objective was the
commodity import program, which was added as an incentive at the
Government's request. A line of credit, however, is not the
proper vehicle for such an import program. A clearer definition
should have been given to this second component: it should have
been considered (i) either as a Structural or Sectoral Adjustment
Loan in which case the condition of funds release could have been
defined without concern for the final beneficiaries, or (ii) as a
classical agricultural credit focusing on final beneficiaries, in
which case the role played by the participants (BADR, ONAPSA,
EDIMAs), should have been redefined (BADR) or eliminated (ONAPSA,
EDIMAs) and greater attention paid to the.sub-borrowers during
project appraisal and during its execution;
(c) Co-Financing Arrangements: If the co-financing institution
wishes to manage its own funds, the processing of both loans must
be done at the same time and with tight collaboration between the
Bank and the other institution.  Also, parallel cofinancing (by
component) is definitely the best option rather than pari-passu as
used under this project. Both loans must be negotiated in close
coordination and have similar effectiveness conditions. If
unexpected complications arise between the Borrower and the other
institutions, such co-financing arrangements should be canceled or



- vii -
modified with more flexible cross-conditionalities (the Bank may
then manage the proceeds of the cofinancier's loan on behalf of
the other institution if requested); and
(d) Condition of Negotiation: It is understood that the
restructuring of a financial institution would require its
recapitalization, resulting in a large immediate cost to the
budget (in the case of BADR, approximately US$0.7 billion); this
in turn would require solutions likely to have macroeconomic
effects extending well beyond the scope of an agricultural credit
project. However, if the socialist farms' uncollectible debts
could not be paid back by the Treasury, at least a limited
solution should have been found to BADR's liquidity problem, such
as temporarily raising the ceiling of borrowing from the Central
Bank without cost, up to a certain level. Another lesson is that
agreement on reporting requirements should be reached at
negotiations, in particular when technical assistance is needed to
overhaul the unreliable information system of the borrower.
11.         Some of these lessons have already been incorporated in the on-
going EFSAL (Loan 3353-AL) approved by the Bank in June 1991. The
implementation of the EFSAL-supported reforms is generally progressing in the
right direction albeit at a considerably slower pace than expected, due to
serious social and political unrest resulting from six years of economic
stagnation. Consequently, Government had to reduce the extent and the pace of
the reform program, priority being given to the enterprise sector. As for the
financial sector, the restructuring of the five commercial banks, including
BADR, will be based on diagnostic studies of portfolio and institutional
issues yielding action plans to be approved by the Central Bank. A rural
finance reform project is planned for FY 98 if macro-economic conditions have
stabilized in Algeria.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3009-AL)
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name              Agricultural Credit Project
Loan Number       3009-AL
RVP Unit          MENA Region
Country           Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Sector           Agriculture
Sub-sector       Agricultural credit
Borrower         Agriculture and Rural Development Bank'
Guarantor        Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Proiect Background
2.01        Prior to the 1986 oil price collapse, the Algerian economy was
guided and directed by a socialist central planning system, driven by
nationalistic policies in the pursuit of economic independence. Given the
country's national and ideological roots and the wounds it sustained during
the war of independence, it is easy enough to understand why the fundamental
characteristic of Algeria's economic orientation was then to secure total
independence from foreign intervention, not only in the field of equity
participation but also in technology transfer and consultation, and this
irrespective of the economic costs involved. Buoyed by substantial oil and gas
revenues (which then seemed capable of giving the country its financial
independence), investment priorities aimed at setting up a large industrial
sector to the detriment of agriculture, whose share in GDP declined from 15%
in 1965 to 6% in 1984. This gave rise to serious food supply problems and
critical dependence on food product imports, exacerbated by one of the highest
rates of population growth in the world. The powerful, highly centralized
Ministry of Planning - transformed after 1986 into the not less powerful
Conseil National de la Planification (CNP) - gave priority to the dominant
socialist public sector, and macroeconomic policies adopted then were
characterized by large public sector deficits, price controls, and goods
rationing. Centrally managed public enterprises operating under pervasive
price controls, allocated resources inefficiently. In an atmosphere of lax
financial discipline, public enterprises borrowed heavily to cover the
I/    Banque de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural d'Algerie



- 2 -
resulting operating losses and resorted to soft loans and capital transfers
from the Treasury to finance investments, leading to large Treasury borrowing
requirements, high monetary growth, and inflationary forces.
2.02          In agriculture, the CNP also gave priority to the socialist
farming system which had been codified by the 1974 Agrarian Revolution
(creation of the state-owned and State-run Domaines Agricoles Socialistes,
DAS). Highly subsidized credit was passed on to these inefficient and badly
managed DAS through a financial public entity, first the Banque Nationale
d'Alg6rie (BNA) until 1982, then the Banque de l'Agriculture et du
Developpement Rural (BADR). The decision to grant funds, request
reimbursement or pardon past loans remained at the political level of the CNP.
In spite of being called a bank, and in spite of having the monopoly to pass
Treasury funds to the DAS, BNA and BADR have actually functioned as mere
branches of the Ministry of Finance.
2.03        In the early 70s, the Bank attempted to renew its lending program
in Algeria's agriculture sector and a modest US$ 8.0 million loan was granted
in 1975 to support a limited technical assistance project for rural
development (Loan 1159-AL). The Bank was also interested in becoming involved
in agriculture credit with a view to initiating a change in macroeconomic
policies, and the hope was to have a project which could be processed rapidly
within the Bank and disbursed quickly after signature of the loan. With these
aims in mind, a commodity import program was identified for the public
marketing entities (offices), as these entities already had investment
programs approved under the second Development Plan (1974-77). Between October
1973 and February 1976, five missions visited Algeria but to no avail. The
proposed project was finally rejected both by the Algerian authorities who,
then, did not need Bank's money or advice, and by the Bank's Management, who
realized that with such a distorted policy framework, and without a coherent
country strategy for Algeria's financial sector development, BADR could never
hope to achieve its supposed objectives.
2.04        In 1986, Algeria's economical environment worsened, as a
consequence of the dramatic fall in world oil prices (crude petroleum prices
per barrel fell from US$ 26.7 in 1985, to US$ 13.6 in 1986). This spurred
Government to implement a wide ranging program of economic and structural
reforms to transform the centrally planned economy into one based on the
decentralized operation of markets. In agriculture, the DAS, which had
continuous operating deficits, were dismantled in 1987 and replaced by smaller
quasi-private voluntary groups of farmers, the EAC (Exploitation Agricoles
Collectives) and the EAI (Exploitations Agricoles Individuelles). As land
rights are limited to the usufruct, no land market has developed yet.
Parallel to that, Government passed in 1986 a Banking Law which, if
implemented, would lead to drastic changes in the banking profession,
transferring greater financial responsibility to the banks (without, however,
giving them adequate financial or managerial autonomy). The idea of an
agricultural credit project resurfaced, based on the same concept of commodity
imports to be distributed to the newly created EAC and EAI by the state-owned
marketing boards. Confronted with such a deeply distorted policy framework and
an inefficient financial sector, it would have been advisable to provide a
more powerful instrument in support of a broad range of policy and



- 3-
institutional reforms. Though such an instrument was in preparation, the Bank
decided nevertheless to encourage Government in its move towards a market
economy, and to take the risk of showing support for such reforms through
sectoral project of limited scope. The hope was that such an effort would pave
the way to more extended Bank support.
Project Obiectives and Description
3.01        The project was prepared at a crucial moment of important changes
in the political orientation of Algeria's economy, as the transition from a
socialist centrally-planned economy to a private sector market-oriented
economy - even though gradual in time and limited in scope - required dramatic
and courageous modifications of the country's political orientation. Thus,
project objectives must be seen at the following three levels: (i) at the
Borrower's level, to strengthen BADR and help it to carry out its new mandate
of channeling funds to private farmers with an effective staff and management
system; (ii) at the agriculture sector level, to provide independent farmers
and cooperatives with agricultural and agro-industrial equipment to improve
production and productivity; and (iii) certainly the most important objective,
at the macro-economic level, to help Government implemnent its reform program,
especially in the field of positive interest rates, strengthening of the
banking sector, and liberalization of prices and imports. After two decades of
limited Bank intervention in the financing of Algerian agriculture, this
project was seen by the Bank as an important first step in resuming its
involvement and support for crucial policy changes.
3.02        Project Description. To achieve the above objectives, the project
supported BADR's activities in the areas of agricultural credit operations and
institutional development. The project, as agreed upon at negotiations,
comprised the following credit and institutional components:
(a)   Credit Component. BADR's two-year time slice program of medium and
long-term (M&LT) lending for: (i) on-farm investments for about 21,000 farms,
including the newly created EACs, providing them with mostly imported farming
equipment, according to a pre-established list detailed in the Staff Appraisal
Report; and (ii) investments in acro-industry, for small-scale private firms
which, prior to the 1986 economic reform, had been starved of credit.
(b)    Institutional Development. This included:  (i) Management
Information System (MIS): the review and upgrading of the accounting system,
followed by the design and establishment of a computerized management
information system. This included technical assistance, hardware, and related
software and training for staff; (ii) Training: a complete training program
for BADR staff, including technical assistance to develop a strategy and long-
term program; and (iii) technical assistance (TA): short-term TA to design the
above master plans for the MIS and training programs, as well as for BADR's
medium-term strategy; on-the-job training for lending in agro-industrial
activities; and external auditing.



-4-
Proiect Design and Organization
4.01        Design.  The initial concept of the project - a structural or
sectoral adjustment type of operation with a commodity import program
supporting long-term policy changes - was adopted as early as 1975, when the
Bank was trying to buy its way into Algeria's economic development program. In
1986, when Government decided to initiate its program of macroeconomic
reforms, the dialogue between the Bank and Government was renewed, and the
decision to join these two components, despite the lack of logical link
between them, resulted from a compromise. For the Bank, financing an import
commodity program was the price to pay for participating, with a line of
credit to BADR as a vehicle, in financial policy reforms. For Government,
reluctant as it was to accept foreign intervention, the price to pay for these
quickly available foreign exchange resources was the Bank-sponsored, technical
assistance-oriented, institution building component. The concept of an import
loan is not, in itself, detrimental, as projects of a similar type have been
successful in reaching their objectives. This was not the case for the present
project, for many reasons, including a lack of consensus between the parties
on project priorities and objectives, and the use of an inappropriate vehicle
(line of credit) for the Loan.
4.02        Preparation and Appraisal.  The project was prepared by various
Government entities. Concerning agricultural equipment imports, the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries presented a list of equipment, which had been
prepared before the privatization of the agricultural sector. The CNP gave the
monopoly for purchase and distribution of this equipment to public entities
under its control: at the national level, the Office National des
Approvisionnements et des Services Agricoles (ONAPSA), would be in charge of
procurement and purchase, and at the regional level, distribution would be
made by the Entreprises de Distribution du Materiel Agricole (EDIMAs). As
expected, BADR, the Borrower, prepared a draft plan for required institutional
changes.
4.03        On the Bank side, the project was processed smoothly. An
identification mission was sent in September 1986 and recommended the
allocation of a Project Preparation Facility of US$ 750,000 to finance
training, technical assistance and office technology. (Approved by the Bank
in January 1987, the PPF only became effective a year later, and only US$
80,000 was actually spent, thus defeating its purpose). A preparation mission
followed in February 1987,and the appraisal mission took place in October
1987.This mission was impressed by the speed with which reform measures had
been imposed. The reforms put considerable pressure on BADR, which had to
start dealing with a private sector largely innocent of sound banking
techniques. This required dramatic changes not only in methods (a technical
problem) but of mentality (a human problem, and more difficult to tackle). In
the Post-Appraisal Issues Paper, the Bank's participation in the project was
questioned, as the unprecedented shift in policies resulted in enormous
uncertainties both for the agricultural sector and for BADR. The decision to
proceed was made with full knowledge of the high risk involved.
4.04        Negotiations and Effectiveness. The next phase of the project
cycle also started smoothly, with pre-negotiations successfully concluded in



Algiers in February 1988. However, it appears that the conditionality
requested by the Bank to protect BADR against a changing environment was not
adequate. This mainly concerned BADR's financial situation: until 1986, the
CNP continued to set the volumes and destination of funds to socialist DAS,
and the CNP and not the DAS continued to bear the financial risk. BADR, thus
reduced to a mere branch of the Ministry of Finance for passing on funds, did
not concern itself with rules of creditworthiness or economic/financial rates
of return. This resulted in an accumulation, in BADR's balance sheet, of DA
15.0 billion (US$ 3.2 billion) in arrears which had no chance of being
recovered. The Bank should have insisted that the bad debts be removed from
BADR's balance sheet and transferred to the Treasury. Two events complicated
the processing of the loan: an additional conditionality imposed by the Bank
at the end of negotiations, and the excessively long period needed to process
the loan granted by the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIMBANK).
4.05        Additional Conditionality. At the request of high-level Bank
management, an addendum to the Minutes of Negotiations was made, strengthening
Bank's position regarding: (i) the exchange risk, the Bank requesting that
this risk be borne by the sub-borrower instead of being included in the
Guarantee Fund as previously accepted during pre-negotiations; and (ii) the
interest rates charged by BADR must be "adequate", i.e. raised by two
percent, this increase being a condition of Board Presentation. These two
points were rejected by the Ministry of Finance. An exchange of views
followed, the Bank withdrew these additional conditions, and the loan was
approved by the Board on December 13, 1988. On the foreign exchange risk, the
intention of the Government (as finally agreed with the Bank) was to ensure
that the Guarantee Fund enable some risk sharing between Government, BADR and
sub-borrowers. The Fund was to cover part of the risk on the principal
outstanding and interest, for both the Bank loan and JEXIM Bank loan.
4.06        JEXIMBANK  expressed interest in co-financing the project (as well
as Power III and Railways II projects) only few months before negotiations. It
was JEXIMBANK's first co-financing experience with the Bank and its first
intervention in Algeria, and as might have been expected, there were major
delays in processing the loan due to two stumbling blocks: a legal issue
concerning arrangements for the settlement of possible future disputes, and
the choice of the Agent Bank. The JEXIMBANK loan was signed only in July 1990,
26 months after the IBRD loan had been negotiated. The project thus became
effective only in March 1990, because of a rigid cross-effectiveness
condition. This meant that contracts worth US$ 100 million signed in October
1989 sat for over a year before being processed (the first IBRD disbursement
was made on August 13, 1990).
Project Implementation
A)    CREDIT COMPONENT
5.01        Public Marketing Agencies. There is a flaw in the design of this
component because of the discrepancy between what is generally done in a
classic credit project and the concept of a commodity import program adopted



here. This flaw is reflected in the Loan Agreement. Generally, what an
agricultural credit bank intends to do is to supply funds to farmers and other
clients. Thus the focus is on the farmer and the clientele of the bank: their
financial needs, the way eligible farmers will be selected, the level of their
creditworthiness, the justification for borrowing (is the investment
technically, financially, economically and environmentally sound): all these
basic elements are detailed in Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement. However,
farmers, as such and as sub-borrowers, are in fact entirely absent from this
project. Because of the nature of this component, only public entities having
a monopoly of importing and distributing agricultural equipment are involved.
This is stressed in the Minutes of Negotiation and appears in Section 3.04 of
the Loan Agreement (" The Borrower shall make legal arrangements, in
consultation with the Bank, with public agencies of the Guarantor for the
purpose of the procurement and distribution of goods required for investment
projects".). In such arrangements, and as stated in the Minutes of
Negotiations, the obligations will be for BADR to finance the purchase of
goods, and for the marketing agency to reimburse BADR. The following public
entities were designated by the Ministry of Agriculture: for purchasing,
ONAPSA, and for regional distribution, the EDIMAs. As a result, the Ministry
of Agriculture and its marketing affiliates were given the responsibility of
designating the sub-borrowers. By abandoning this prerogative, BADR also
abandoned the security of recovering its loans.
5.02        Selection of Equipment.   The Ministry of Agriculture, which,
oddly enough, was not represented at negotiations and has not been an official
interlocutor during project implementation, had established the list of goods
to be imported. This list had been compiled before the agriculture sector was
privatized, and the small, newly privatized EAC could not afford to purchase
some of the agricultural equipment, mainly expensive heavy tractors.
Unfortunately, this list had been approved by a previous identification
mission, instead of challenging some of the items proposed, such as the
tractors: the flaw of this selection process was that it did not result from
clearly specified needs expressed by independent farmers, but had been
compiled more on political grounds than on technical viability. However, it
must be recognized that the distribution of equipment (except tractors) went
on smoothly till the November 1991 devaluation of the Algerian dinar (when the
value of the dollar jumped from 8 to 21 dinars), and this after the equipment
contracts were signed. This, together with the imposition of an import tariff,
explains in part that approximately 3,000 tractors worth US$35.0 million, were
left unsold in the EDIMAs warehouses. (since the end of the project, 900
tractors have been sold in April and May 1993, but it is unclear if all of
them will be sold by the end of 1993, despite the incentive given as a result
of a decision to reduce their selling prices from DA 550,000 to DA 400,000,
and to reduce the interest on loans from 22% to 7%).
5.03        Procurement.  The Procurement Process has been handled as planned
during project implementation (i.e. in accordance with the Loan Agreement and
Bank's guidelines) and with the assistance of the Procurement Agency of
Algeria, ONAPSA which provided sustained and efficient support. At the end of
1988, ONAPSA had been designated by the Ministry of Agriculture as the
monopolistic importer of agricultural equipment, and the risk was that Bank
guidelines would not be followed either because Government would challenge



them, or would not understand them. ONAPSA had an excellent staff, and
starting in early 1989, fruitful cooperation with Bank staff was established.
Working sessions took place in Algiers and in Washington to work out new
bidding procedures which not only met, but in the case of bid evaluation
criteria, went beyond Bank requirements. Also, the review by the Bank of
procurement decisions, as specified in Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement, has
always been respected. Under the project, the Bank accepted the signing of
Special Commitments concerning 26 letters of credit, by which almost US$ 142
million worth of equipment was imported, and it is remarkable that this has
been done without any major complaints. The results of the Procurement
process, however, are mixed as many equipment imported (e.g. tractors) did not
match the market needs of project beneficiaries, and because procurement
procedures used under this project are usually not applicable to lines of
credit.
5.04        Agro-industrial Investment Projects.  Agro-industry was
undoubtedly the most promising sector of Algerian economy: consumer demand
was enormous, enhanced by a high population growth rate, profits were
substantial, and many of the existing private agro-industrial firms were well
managed and eager to grow. An international expert accompanied the first
missions and helped BADR analyze investment projects which had been prepared
by private firms with professionalism and competence. As early as July 1989,
half a dozen of these projects were submitted to BADR for analysis and
processing. Unfortunately, only one went through, and five factors may explain
this unfortunately poor performance: (i) the discouraging long delays in loan
processing, as a result of a conflict of authority between BADR in the one
hand, and the National Chamber of Commerce, which had the monopoly for
approving private investments, and the Ministry of Commerce, which had the
monopoly for delivering import licenses, on the other hand. This bureaucratic
bottleneck should have been resolved at negotiations; (ii) the very
unfavorable macro-economical environment, not conducive to long-term
investments; (iii) the majority of the requests had to be turned down because
of unsettled land ownership, unclear partnership arrangements, and
insufficient financial participation by the investors; (iv) reluctance of the
investors to accept Bank procurement guidelines; and (v) the investors'
reluctance to bear the exchange risk.
B)    INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
5.05        Background. Until the promulgation  in 1988 of amendments to the
Banking Law , all banks in Algeria were Government owned and under the
tutelage of the Ministry of Finance. Credit operations were highly centralized
with the powerful CNP governing the allocation of Treasury resources, of
which over 95% went to socialist public entities. BADR, created in 1982, had
operated in this context, and had the monopoly for channeling Treasury funds
to the socialist farms (DAS). Little attention was paid to the
creditworthiness of the DAS and other public sector agencies, as their loans
were implicitly guaranteed by Government. This guarantee was made good in 1987
when the DAS were dissolved and their debts assumed, in theory by Government,
but in practice by BADR, as these debts remained, unpaid, in BADR's



portfolio. Because BADR served automatically as the supplier of funds, it made
little effort to mobilize resources.
5.06        Project objectives and Initial Implementation. Undoubtedly, BADR's
management welcomed the project as a means to support them in their reform
process, and as early as the appraisal phase, a fruitful and intense
collaboration existed with Bank staff. A complete set of measures was agreed
upon, formalized in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement, with adequate deadlines,
and confirmed in a detailed document called "Terms of Reference for
strengthening BADR", prepared by Bank staff and consultants, and handed to
BADR in May 1989. Respecting, but extending the requirements of the Loan
Agreement, the Terms of Reference divided the action plan into eight
activities: 1) General Policy Statement; 2) Operational Manual; 3) Technical
norms; 4) Medium-Term Strategy for lending; 5) BADR Organizational Structure;
6) Revision of the Accounting Procedures; 7) Management Information System;
and 8) Master Plan for Training. Each of these activities was assigned to a
special task force within BADR, and the supervision missions, which always
included high-level specialists, provided efficient guidance and reported
their satisfaction on the first phase of implementation.
5.07        Limiting factors to BADR's institutional improvements. Three major
factors can explain the limited results obtained in reaching the project's
institutional development objectives: first, BADR's critical financial
situation, second, the lack of managerial continuity, and third, slow initial
implementation resulting in insufficient time to complete institutional
improvements envisaged at appraisal.
5.08        BADR's critical financial situation. In the context of the
country's sweeping economic and structural reform program, the new banking law
was part of an initial phase of a new institutional and legal framework
designed to disengage Government from the direct management of the economy and
to permit enterprises and banks to operate with greater managerial autonomy.
It appears that such disengagement was not however replaced with any
appropriate new working framework (privatization was still prohibited then).
This left the banks in a very shaky situation: BADR's new management found
itself with the equivalent of US$3.5 billion in non- recoverable bad debts
with DAS, no cash, no credit policy, no accounting, and a staff not only
unaware of sound banking practices but unwilling to change their working
habits, to the point of refusing the idea of abandoning the centrally-planned
socialist system. The Algerian authorities and Bank staff were aware of these
problems but certainly no one then imagined the enormity of the technical,
economic, social and political difficulties which would be encountered during
the transition from a centrally-planned socialist system to a market-oriented
one. BADR was forced into bankruptcy, and its profitable activities were
paralyzed. Faced with a daily crisis situation, BADR top management had little
time or energy to devote to internal policy reforms.
5.09        Lack of continuity in managerial policies. As it is often the
case, political changes occurring during the execution of a project do reflect
in changes in the managerial set up of project's executing entities, both in
the choice of top level managers as well as in policy orientation imposed by
higher level authorities. Such changes were particularly dramatic in the case



of BADR, due to the transition from a socialist economy to a market-oriented
one. Project objectives, set-up during preparation between certain Bank staff
and Borrower's representatives, are not given the same flavor and level of
priority by their successors. BADR had to suffer from contradictory
instructions given by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, mainly
regarding the adoption of a special chart of accounts for the banking
profession. In May 1990 and fortunately for BADR, an excellent professional
took over as Chief Executing Officer. He approved the already well advanced
General Policy Statement and the Medium-Term Lending Strategy, but proposed a
different timing for the execution of the remaining project objectives, of
which, as top priority, the complete computerization of BADR's offices and
branch network.
5.10        Slow initial implementation.  Because of delays in fulfilling
JEXIMBANK effectiveness conditions (para 4.06), the first disbursement from
the Bank Loan was only made in August 1990, twenty months after Board
approval, time loss which has been compounded by other constraints slowing the
pace of project implementation after loan effectiveness. Moreover, the
initiating point of the above mentioned work program also started in mid 1990
with the following sequence: (i) completion of the computerization master
plan, then choice of program and equipment; (ii) adaptation of the imposed
accounting system into the data processing system; (iii) drafting of the
operating manuals and of the technical norms; (iv) the setting up and further
execution of an adapted training program geared towards the understanding and
implementation of the new accounting system and the computer networking; and
(v) the daily production of management tools and reliable financial
statements. The time needed to complete such a sequence has been
underestimated in the Algerian context.
5.11        Actions successfully implemented. Bank missions focused on the
General Policy Statement, and the Medium-Term Strategy Lending, as these two
activities were considered the backbone of BADR's institutional recovery, and
deadlines for their execution were highlighted in the Loan Agreement: review
by the Bank before June 30, 1990, and initial implementation before June 30,
1991. Bank staff input was important as the proposal for these two documents
was drafted and submitted to BADR. In spite of a series of important changes
at the Central Bank (an expanded leadership role in the country's financial
sector, tougher regulations concerning interest rates and credit controls) and
at BADR (new Board of Directors, the inefficient and disinterested government
holdings called Fonds de Participation, and new CEO), the General Policy
Statement and the Medium-Term Strategy were submitted to and approved by the
Board of Directors in June 1990. By then, BADR was imposing strict discipline
in granting funds only to those who had no past overdue loans and who had a
legal certificate or title to their land. The result was a sharp increase in
the repayment rates in 1991 seasonal credits ( 82.7% for the EAC and 75.4% for
individual farmers, against 71.1% and 58.1% respectively in 1990), but also a
sharp decline in the number of BADR loans granted (15,800 for seasonal credits
and 5,500 for M&LT credits against 46,700 and 15,800 in 1990 respectively).
5.12        Another area of relative success was the computerization of BADR
offices and branch network. Though the initial plan was only to adopt a



- 10 -
limited Management Information System, the new CEO opted for this broader
objective which would encompass BADR's 299 units: 12 headquarter's
directorates, 31 regional branches and 256 local branches. The initial Master
Plan was prepared as early as August 1988 and revised by specialists
accompanying the October 1989 supervision mission. Successive supervision
missions acknowledged the efficient work performed by BADR's Directorate for
Organization and Computerization, DOI. A leading consulting firm, STERIA, was
hired to help in the implementation of the final more extensive Master Plan,
the first phase of which, decentralization to the Regional Agencies of data
collection and control, was executed in December 1990, with the purchase of 36
minicomputers (UNISYS U6000). As of May 1993, 160 units have received the
necessary equipment and 50 are already fully operational. As a result of the
satisfactory execution of the corresponding training program, it is expected
that 50% of the total network will be operational by the end of 1993, and the
whole process could be completed by the end of 1994.
5.13        Activities partly implemented. The tasks of drafting the
Operational Manual,   Technical Norms, and Organizational Structure were given
to different task forces, and until mid-1990, the supervision missions
reported excellent progress. However, with the adoption in mid-1990 of a new
timetable for the execution of the revised work program, these task forces
were disbanded and the execution of these three documents was included in the
computerization work program. The Operational Manual has been achieved and is
now part of the computer network, and by simple command included in the menu,
available at each desktop. The Technical norms have also been achieved, but
are of no practical use because the unit costs have not been updated. As for
the Organizational structure, it has been put on hold, awaiting the result of
a special audit of the Algerian banking sector financed by the Bank as part of
the EFSAL activities.
5.14        A special case must be made for the implementation of a suitable
Accountincq System, as this implementation has taken so long as to have
detrimentally delayed other activities. The system which existed before the
project was inadequate to run a bank: it was adapted to the needs prevailing
at the time. For many years, if not decades, financial and accounting staff
had been used to a simplistic system, as there was no need to control the flow
of funds as long as BADR remained only a transferring agent between the
Treasury and the socialist farms. It was when BADR was instructed to act like
an independent profit-oriented bank that the accounting system should have
immediately adapted to the new needs. It is only at the end of 1991 that the
Central Bank gave instructions to adopt a special accounting procedure for the
banking sector, and this system was then introduced into the computer program,
together with the corresponding operational manual. As of today, two different
chart of accounts are used: those units continuing to process accounting
entries manually, do so under the old chart of accounts; Those units who have
adopted the computerized SYBU program, do so with the new official accounting
system (to harmonize the financial statements, a device has been set up to
interface both systems). This inefficient transitional system should end when
the whole network will have adopted the new system, which should occur at the
end of fiscal year 1994. Until then, BADR's financial statements (and
specially the balance sheets) will require additional delays and adjustments.
The external auditors contacted during the May 1993 visit, expressed their



- 11 -
confidence regarding BADR's financial management, and are pleased that their
recommendations have been implemented.
5.15        Training. This is an activity which has been diversely evaluated.
In 1989, various specialized consulting firms submitted their proposals:
FINAFRICA (Italy) proposed an action plan for the training of 250 controllers.
Then a consultant (the Training Director of Morocco's Agricultural Credit
Bank, CNCA) and a Canadian consulting firm proposed a complete action plan for
adapting training to present needs. These were all put on hold, as BADR
management argued that any action plan for training had to await the
finalization of the computerization preparation phase: the choice of program,
method and equipment would decide the choice of the training program. For that
reason, such a training program was only initiated in August 1992, after the
Bank's last supervision mission took place (April 1992), which explains the
negative assessments of this component given by the Bank. However, such a
training program is being presently carried out, internally for the
introduction of the SYBU software program, through five training centers and
fourteen training specialists, and externally, through contracts with national
and international specialized firms. In 1993, BADR will train 3,800 staff, or
611 of its global work force, and will allocate to training activities 4.1% of
its budget (against 1% requested by law). Concerning training in particular,
as well as institutionally in general, BADR is well ahead other commercial
banks, and this has been recognized in a report on the Algerian banking sector
performed in late 1992 by a private auditing firm.
5.16        Technical Assistance.  A special case must be made for this
component, as there is a diverging opinion between Bank's reports and BADR's
assessment. According to the Bank, the use of (mainly foreign) technical
assistance (TA) was considered essential for reaching the project's
objectives, and this need was formalized in Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement:
in fact, the project's main objective was to help BADR in adopting a new and
completely different strategy for lending and operating practices, and it was
obvious that this change would require external TA. Unfortunately, almost
every supervision mission's reports complain about the inadequate use of TA,
the absence of which explaining the poor results achieved by the project,
especially in training activities and financial management. It may well be
that, especially at the start of the project, national sensitivity and pride
did not favor such external interferences, and the supervision reports mention
frequently the refusal by the CEO elected in mid-1990 to use external TA. On
the contrary, according to BADR management, this refusal was not systematic,
but selective: TA was required when necessary, and in strict relation to the
timetable set up for the implementation of the adopted plan of action.
Consultants were indeed hired, but in sequence, first for the drafting and
further implementation of the master plan for computerization (specialized
firm STERIA); then, for training, (STERIA again, for SYBU software program,
and specialized entities like SIBF and CNPD for other training matters). As
for the reorganization of the financial department, it has been done with the
support of STERIA as well as of the external auditors.



- 12 -
C)    PROJECT COSTS. DISBURSEMENTS. AND AUDIT
5.17        Project costs were estimated at US$ 569.2 million, with US$ 546.0
million for the credit component, and US$ 23.2 million for the institutional
development component. Concerning the financing, IBRD and JEXIMBANK were to
finance US$ 110.0 million each, BADR US$ 158.6 million, and the investors US$
190.6 million. The only reliable information concerning costs and financing is
given by Bank loan disbursement categories, but assuming as a first
approximation that the same percentages of execution apply to BADR and the
investors' shares, and taking into consideration that US$ 35.0 million of
imported goods were still not distributed, nor paid for by the investors, it
may be estimated that total project cost is US$ 413.0 million, or 72.6% of
appraisal estimate, of which 87% for the on-farm investments, only 7.0% for
investments in agro-industry, 35.5% for electronic data processing, and 0.0%
for training and technical assistance. Concerning Bank funds, the first
disbursement was made in August 1990, 18 months later than expected at
appraisal, but the average overall rate of disbursement of 69.1% is above
average. The balance of US$ 31.7 million remaining in the loan account was
canceled in June 1993. Project accounts and the Special Account were audited
annually, with great difficulties and delays, but BADR's financial statements
remained unauditable for the whole duration of Project Implementation. As
part of the EFSAL, an audit report on BADR by Coopers-Lybrand is under review
at the Central Bank since June 1993 (see also para. 6.03 and 9.01).
Proiect Results
6.01 Concerning the Credit component, project files do not provide
information concerning the number of project beneficiaries or investments
financed, nor the impact of these investments on their revenues. Moreover, the
lack of detailed information in BADR accounts precludes any analysis of the
portfolio, or of the level of recovery. Unless this information is furnished
in BADR's own PCR (Part II of this report), it must be assumed that, with
exception of SOTRAPOT, the single agro-industrial investment financed by the
project, whose results were positive, the impact of the project is unknown.
With regards to BADR's credit activities, some encouraging results on seasonal
credit recovery in 1991 (that the Bank did not finance) were given by the
April 1992 supervision mission: a recovery rate of 82.7% for the EAC and of
75.4% for the individual farmers, a sharp improvement from the 35% figure in
1988/89. This gives an indication that, starting in 1991, the cooperatives and
farmers were selected in 1991 with more rigorous criteria and thus were in
better financial situation. One issue is that the tractors purchased from
Yugoslavia under the Project did not benefit farmers clients of BADR and most
of these tractors have not been sold to farmers.
6.02         As for the Institutional Development Component, it was known at
appraisal that reaching project targets was a long-term objective. Moreover,
the legacy of 25 years of central planning had riddled the economy with deep-
rooted distortions and inefficiencies that have proven extremely difficult and
time consuming to correct: BADR's CEO had justifiably complained about these
distortions as BADR was instructed to operate under free market conditions,
but was not given the financial autonomy to do so. In spite of these



- 13 -
difficulties, the results obtained by BADR's new management in a very short
time limit (May 1990-May 1993) is notable: BADR is in the process of
implementing a modern computerized operating tool which, when completed in
late 1994, will help this bank better achieve its economic function once the
structural adjustment process will be completed. Today, this process is
slowly underway, in spite of huge financial and human inputs under an Economic
Reform Support Loan (recently completed), a Technical Assistance Project and
an Enterprise and Financial Sector Loan, EFSAL. The merit of the BADR project
was that it courageously supported initiation of the first reforms in the
financial and agricultural sectors, thus paving the way for future and more
powerful instruments.
6.03        As an activity financed by the EFSAL, an audit of the Algerian
banking sector has been carried out recently by the international auditing
firm Coopers and Lybrand. The audit report, presently in the hands of the
Central Bank, has not yet been released, but summarized conclusions concerning
BADR have been obtained, and confirm the two following points: (i) BADR's
financial situation is preoccupying, and a massive injection of cash would be
needed to allow it to regain a competitive position ; and (ii) as a banking
institution, BADR has done very substantial progress in the way it operates.
It has made a very good investment choice (the full computerization of its
operations, extended to its national network of almost 300 units, unique among
the banking sector in Algeria), and has made important investments in physical
resources (hardware and software) as well as in human resources (training)
which puts BADR above its competitors. The auditors estimate that to complete
its computerization program, it would cost BADR an additional US$ 6.0 million.
Proiect Sustainability
7.01        Concerning the credit component, it may be said that the project
had a limited impact in the development of Algeria's agriculture (nor was it
the project's intention to do so). This component was to be implemented over a
two year period, and was considered by the Bank at the time of project design
as the price to be paid for participating in the country's financial policy
reforms. Nevertheless, recent information indicate that credit conditions
presently applied are nearing market conditions and that increased discipline
in loan allocation has improved annual recovery rates. But, it has not solved
the problem of past arrears. Also, the project was powerless in redressing
BADR's financial situation which remains worrisome: the recent audit of the
Algerian banking sector confirms that BADR is bankrupt, and that massive
recapitalization would be needed to allow BADR to compete successfully. But
such an issue must be dealt on a macro-economic level under the auspices of
the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan EFSAL. On the contrary,
concerning the institutional development component, the project certainly
helped BADR modernize its structure and acquire an efficient management tool
which places it ahead of the other Algerian commercial banks and will enable
it in the near future to operate efficiently and in a sustainable manner once
the country's structural adjustment process will have reached a further stage
of implementation, eliminating major economic distortions and allowing
BADR's customers (public or private, agricultural or non agricultural
enterprises) to perform satisfactorily and make profits.



- 14 -
Bank Performance
8.01        Preparation Phase. The Bank has been anxious to participate in the
development of Algeria's agricultural sector since the early 70s, and a first
attempt to develop an agricultural credit project, initiated in October 1973,
failed from a lack of consensus on conditionalities. But the idea of financing
a commodity import program was maintained, as it would mean a project which
could be processed rapidly within the Bank and quickly disbursed. It appears
that this sense of urgency still existed also when the project came back out
of the drawer in 1986. The project timetable was somewhat accelerated: the
pre-appraisal mission scheduled for July 1987 was delayed to October 1987, but
upgraded to an appraisal mission. Moreover, to gain time, a Bank delegation
went to Algeria pre-negotiate the Loan (together with the Power III and
Railways II Loans), with the intention of bringing these three loans to the
Board before the end of the fiscal year. This rush had the following negative
consequences: (i) Co-financing arrangements with JEXIMBANK were left totally
in the dark, though it was useless to rush internal loan processing without
taking care of the co -financier's loan, as the two were to be linked by a
cross-effectiveness clause. In fact, the JEXIMBANK loan became etfective only
in July 1990, more than two years after the IBRD loan; (ii) Additional
discussions would have been necessary to try to resolve, even partly, the
question of BADR's liquidity, helping BADR to operate correctly in a free
market environment. The unresolved question of the arrears from the socialist
sector debt (over US$ 2.5 billion, 22% of BADR's assets, and 3% of the
country's GDP) has weighed very heavily on BADR's operations. (iii) The
adoption of the 1973 commodity import operation (with its pre-established
list of goods to be imported over a two-year period) created an ambivalence as
to the nature of the project:was it a sector loan type of operation, with the
importation of goods to be left to the Borrower, or was it to be a classical
operational credit project, in which case, more attention should have been
paid to: a) the sub-borrowers (who are they, what are their needs, what is the
status of the other elements of the support package such as research,
extension, marketing); and b) since the participation of intermediate
marketing agencies such as ONAPSA and the EDIMAs was imposed, the role of
these participants should have been defined more clearly. In this respect,
Annex 4 of the Staff Appraisal Report is confusing: it is not clear who
reimburses BADR, the importing agency or the sub-borrowers.
8.02        Supervision. Knowing that the execution of the project would be a
challenge, the Bank made a real effort to strengthen supervision, not only
quantitatively but also qualitatively. In the initial phase of execution (1989
and 1990), the missions included a variety of high-level specialists who
enthusiastically provided very useful recommendations, and some of them would
have been willing to stay as long-term consultants (or in line positions) to
help implement these recommendations. Bank staff at headquarters also made an
important contribution, drafting terms of reference and action plans in a wide
variety of fields. Also, special attention was given to compliance with Bank
Guidelines regarding the bidding process of over US$142.0 million worth of
equipment imported without a major dispute. However, more attention could have
been given to the credit component. A first warning was given during the
fifth supervision mission in December 1990, but it is only at the seventh and
last supervision mission of April 1992 that the problem in the relationship



- 15 -
between BADR and the marketing agencies, and between the marketing agencies
and the sub-borrowers (US$35.0 million worth of unsold equipment in the EDIMAs
warehouses) is more seriously flagged. It also seems that the intensity of
supervision had dwindled by the middle of 1991, along with staff enthusiasm
for the project.
8.03        Should we have done the Proiect? This question was first posed at
the return of the Appraisal mission, considering the expected uncertainty and
high level of risks resulting from the Algerian Government's decision to
launch a sweeping reform program. The Yellow Cover Review Meeting of January
1988 decided to accept the challenge, in spite of the recommendations
contained in the Bank's Operational Directives concerning financial sector
operations: it was known that support to such an ambitious program would
require a full array of lending instruments (country economic sector work,
financial sector adjustment loan, technical assistance loan). Concerning the
agro-industrial sector, when it became evident that conflicts existing between
BADR and the Chambre Nationale de Commerce were paralyzing progress, an
immediate elimination of the bottleneck should have been requested from
Government. Concerning the credit component, and as suggested by the fifth
supervision mission in December 1990, the pre-established list of equipment
(in particular tractors) should have been revised in 1991, in the light of the
new economic situation and the changing of needs of different types of
farmers. In any event, when in the middle of 1991, the glut in equipment sales
(especially tractors) became evident, disbursements for Category 1 should have
been suspended, until proof could be provided that such investments were
profitable. A greater degree of flexibility and adaptability to the changing
economic environment would have been necessary, re-orienting project
objectives, restructuring or eliminating the credit component and
concentrating on the institutional strengthening, supporting more actively the
revised timetable and priorities set up by the new management, thus paving the
way for further restructuring under the auspices of the now on-going EFSAL.
Nevertheless, according to BADR management, the answer is yes, this loan was
useful, as all managers having participated to the May 1993 discussions, have
expressed their gratitude to the Bank and to Bank staff for having helped BADR
acquire a modern management tool and improve their operations.
Borrower and Guarantor Performance. and Compliance with Covenants
9.01        The overall performance of BADR was mixed and it varied among
levels of hierarchy and sectors of activity. It is true that the intensity of
the reorganization proposed was received with apprehension by all staff, and
some may have opposed such sweeping changes, either from political conviction
(feeling that the agriculture sector must be subsidized to compensate for
calamities or economic distortions, consumer prices being kept artificially
low  while only the cost element follows the rule of the market), or by sheer
resistance to behavioral changes. This is in contrast with the very positive
attitude of managers and the successive CEOs, who must be credited for
accepting the challenge and for having moved BADR, albeit slowly, in the right
direction. However, three setbacks must be noted: (i) late performance in
training activity; (ii) the very poor performance in financial management,
since, at least until 1990 (the audit report of the 1991 BADR accounts has not
yet been received), the accounts were in such a shamble that no portfolio



- 16 -
review could be made, and the auditors refused to give an opinion (disclaimer
being a serious case in the auditing profession); and (iii) the reluctance to
use technical assistance, which has been a leading cause of shortfalls in
performance.
9.02        Performance by the Guarantor has also been mixed, but it takes
into account the extreme difficulties encountered in the execution of the
economic restructuring process going on in the country. Nevertheless, the
Guarantor has made some good efforts to comply with its obligations as
stipulated in the Guarantee Agreement, in particular those regarding the
interest rates, which have been gradually raised by the Central Bank (Banque
d'Algerie), almost eliminating the remaining subsidy factor for some
privileged crops or activities, and the exchange risk, assumed by the
Guarantee Fund. However, BADR could have improved the results of its own
financial restructuring if Government had given better support to BADR's
management and allowed BADR to operate with a more balanced financial
structure. Since BADR became administratively and financially independent
(though still a public entity), it has been left without support and
orientation, its only link with Government being the badly conceptualized and
inefficient holding instrument called Fonds de Participation (their
inefficiency has been recognized, and they will disappear). BADR's need for
financial restructuring has now been recognized. These two issues, along with
many others to which adequate solutions could not be found under the present
project, are now taken care of under the EFSAL.
Project Relationship
10.01       The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower remained
cordial throughout the life of the project. The reciprocal manifestation of
esteem between BADR' top management and Bank staff has remained genuine, in
spite of differences of opinion and priorities. BADR's successive CEOs may
have been annoyed by the constant repetition of recommendations, while Bank
staff may have been disappointed by the poor results due, according to them,
to non-compliance with these recommendations, especially concerning the
reluctance to use TA. Relations could have become strained after the refusal
by the Bank to extend the Loan closing date, but the delicate decision to
close the Loan was handled tactfully by Bank staff, and it was clearly
understood by BADR management. BADR also understood that some targets not
reached under the present project would be taken care of under the EFSAL and
that the Bank does not exclude renewing its dialogue in the future for a
sounder rural finance operation in Algeria. Relations between the Bank and the
Guarantor have also been good, though not very frequent. BADR might have kept
too much distance from both the Ministry of Finance, for matters dealing with
its shaky financial situation, and with the Ministry of Agriculture,
concerning matters related to the farmers and their needs. The Bank could
have perhaps fostered a better coordination on this. As for the relationship
between the Bank and JEXIMBANK, the initial phase has been difficult, as each
co-donor had to understand and adapt to the other's set of rules. Subsequently
however, an effective team spirit developed with a constant exchange of
information and common decision making, including at loan closing.



- 17 -
Lessons Learned
11.01       The key lessons of the project, for both the Bank and the
Borrower, can be summarized as follows:
(a) Proiect Justification: Bank guidelines on Financial Sector
Operations suggest that the project should not have been initiated
before an environment conducive to the efficient development of
the country's financial system could be created. If for lending
program purposes it was decided to allow the project to proceed,
it should have been necessary to re-orient its objectives to
restructure or eliminate the credit component and to concentrate
on institutional strengthening, supporting more actively the
revised timetable and priorities set up by the new BADR's
management, thus paving the way for further restructuring under
the auspices of the on-going EFSAL;
(b) Proiect Design: an important objective of the project was to
promote the development of BADR and a secondary objective was the
commodity import program, which was added as an incentive at the
Government's request. A line of credit, however, is not the proper
vehicle for such an import program. A clearer definition should
have been given to this second component: it should have been
considered (i) either as a Structural or Sectoral Adjustment Loan,
in which case the condition of funds release could have been
defined without concern for the final beneficiaries or (ii) as a
classical agricultural credit operation focusing on final
beneficiaries, in which case the role played by the participants
(BADR, ONAPSA, EDIMAs), should have been redefined (BADR) or
eliminated (ONAPSA, EDIMAs) and greater attention paid to the sub-
borrowers during the appraisal and the execution of the project;
(c) Co-Financing Arrangements: If the co-financing institution
wishes to manage its own funds, the processing of both loans must
be done in a coordinated manner between the Bank and the other
institution. Also, parallel cofinancing (by component) is
definitely the best option rather than pari-passu as used under
this project. Both loans must be negotiated in close coordination
and have similar effectiveness conditions. If unexpected
complications arise between the Borrower and the other
institution, such co-financing arrangements should be canceled or
modified with more flexible cross-conditionalities (the Bank then
may manage the proceeds of the cofinanciers loan of the other
institution if requested); and
(d) Condition of NeQotiation: It is understood that the
restructuring of a financial institution will require its
recapitalization, resulting in a large immediate cost to the
budget (in the case of BADR, approximately US$0.7 billion); this
in turn will require solutions likely to have macroeconomic
effects extending well beyond the scope of a limited agricultural
credit project. However, if the socialist farms' uncollectible



- 18 -
debts could not be paid back by the Treasury, at least a limited
solution should have been found to BADR's liquidity problem, such
as raising temporarily the ceiling of borrowing from the Central
Bank without cost, up to a certain level. Another lesson is that
agreement on reporting requirements should be reached at
negotiations, in particular when TA is needed to overhaul the
unreliable information system of the borrower.
11.02       Some of these lessons have already been incorporated in the on-
going EFSAL (Loan 3353-AL) approved by the Bank in June 1991. The
implementation of the EFSAL-supported reforms is generally progressing in the
right direction albeit at a considerably slower pace than expected, due to
serious social and political unrest resulting from six years of economic
stagnation. Consequently, Government had to reduce the extent and the pace of
the reform program, priority being given to the Enterprise Sector. As for the
financial sector, the restructuring of the five commercial banks, including
BADR, will be based on diagnostic studies of portfolio and institutional
issues yielding action plans to be approved by the Central Bank. A rural
finance reform project is planned for FY 98 if macro-economic conditions have
stabilized in Algeria.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3009-AL)
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(This part not yet received from BADR)



- 20 -
PART III : STATISTICAL INFORMATION
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 3009-AL)
1. Project Timetable
Activity                 Original Plan      Revisions              Actual
Appraisal                    10/87                                10/19/87
Negotiations                 02/88                              02/88 & 07/88
Board Approval               06/88                                06/14/89
Loan Agreement              12/88              06/89              08/31/89
Loan Effectiveness          06/89              12/89              03/30/90
Closing                   09/30/92                                09/30/92
Completion                  03/92                                   01/93



- 21 -
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 3009-AL)
2. CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
(IN '000 US$)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE       ACTUAL ESTIMATE       ACTUAL AS %
--------------------------------------------------------
S E M E S T E R       AMOUNT  CUMULATIVE       AMOUNT  CUMULATIVE    APPRAISAL
-------------------------------------------------------__-------------------
JUNE 30, 1989              4.0       4.0                     0.0          0.0%
DECEMBER 31, 1989         10.0      14.0                     0.0          0.0%
JUNE 30, 1990             15.0      29.0                     0.0          0.0%
DECEMBER 31, 1990         15.0      44.0          18.0      18.0         40.9%
JUNE 30, 1991             20.0      64.0          27.1      45.1         70.5%
DECEMBER 31, 1991         15.0      79.0          21.3      66.4         84.0%
JUNE 30, 1992             15.0      94.0           6.1      72.5         77.1%
DECEMBER 31, 1992         16.0     110.0                    72.5         65.9%
JUNE 30, 1993                      110.0           3.5      76.0         69.1%
110.0                    76.0
DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY a/
(IN '000 US$)
C A T E G O R Y                              --- ESTIMATE ---      ACTUAL AS %
---------------------------------
APPRAISAL ACTUAL        APPRAISAL
------------------------------------------------------------__--------------
1. EQUIPMENT FOR ON-FARM INVESTMENTS              73.0      71.0         97.3%
2. AGRO-INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT                      24.7       1.5          6.1%
3. ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING                     10.0       3.5         35.0%
4. TRAINING                                        1.8       0.0          0.0%
5. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES                           0.5       0.0          0.0%
---------------------------------
110.0     76.0         69.1%
a/ The amounts in Categories 6 "PPF" and 9 "Unallocated" appearing in
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement, have been transferred to Categories
1 to 5



- 22 -
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 3009-AL)
3. EQUIPMENT PURCHASED FINANCED BY THE LOAN
SPEC.  LETTER      L.C.   COUNTRY                                 UNIT    AMOUNT
COMMT. CREDIT     DATE              - TYPE OF EQUIPMENT -         COST   DISBURSED
(US$)   000' US$
A) CATEGORY 1: TRACTORS, VEHICLES, AND ON-FARM EQUIPMENT
G-01    118.333 05/17/90 FRANCE   3000 CHARRUES                   3310.0   4539.2
G-02    118.338 05/17/90 ITALY    5000 POUDREUSES A DOS             25.2   1645.5
120000 KNAPSACK SPRAYERS         13.5
G-03    118.331 05/17/90 FRANCE   500 ROTOHERSES FLEXIBLES         443.0    208.8
G-04    118.327 05/17/90 HOLLAND  1000 BINEUSES                   1027.6    497.5
G-05    118.334 05/17/90 FRANCE   100 POUDREUSES MECA.            1802.1     86.3
G-06    118.335 05/17/90 ITALY    1000 CHARRUES A SOC             1378.6   1320.9
G-07    118.320 05/17/90 GERMANY  200 PLANTEUSES DE PDT           2521.5    492.8
G-08    118.322 05/17/90 ITALY    1000 BINEUSES                   1197.1    574.1
G-09    118.321 05/17/90 TUNISIA  600 ATOMISEURS                   452.8   1776.6
300 PULVERISATEURS 100L       3318.0
G-10    118.328 05/17/90 HOLLAND  5 EXTRACTEURS DE SEMENCE       23640.0    140.0
5 BATEUSES DE SEMENCE        32360.0
G-11    118.330 05/17/90 FRANCE   1000 CULTIVATEURS                608.6    844.9
1000 ROTOHERSES               1168.6
G-12    118.324 05/17/90 ITALY    1500 MINITRACTEURS EQUIPES   12950.0   9386.7
G-13    118.325 05/17/90 JAPAN    3000 CARS MAZDA                 5189.0   7472.0
G-14    118.329 07/30/90 GERMANY  200 REPIQUEUSES PLANES          2600.0    259.5
G-15    118.332 05/17/90 ITALY    1500 MOTEURS                    2106.6   1477.2
G-16    118.336 05/17/90 HOLLAND  10 CHAINES DE CONDIT. DE PDT 51000.0    510.4
G-17    118.337 05/17/90 ITALY    1500 FRAISES ROTATIVES          1170.5    843.3
G-18    118.326 05/08/90 YOUGO    1600 TRACTEURS A ROUE           9126.0   7298.8
G-19    118.323 05/08/90 YOUGO    1400 TRACTEURS A ROUE a/       10381.8   6293.3
G-20    120.166 10/12/90 ITALY    SPAREPARTS                                831.8
G-22    120.327 19/12/90 YOUGO    321000 TIRES                      35.6  14414.0
15000 TIRES                    203.5
21000 TUBES                      4.0
20000 TUBES                     22.2
G-23    120.165 19/12/90 USA       1000 GROUPES MOTOPOMPES                 3420.8
2000 POMPES IMMERGEES
G-24                                                                       2103.0
G-25    120.670  17/01/91 JAPAN   2000 GROUPES ELECTROGENES       4164.0   3781.0
G-26                               PULVERISATEURS                           612.0
TOTAL CATEGORY 1                                                   70830.4
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _- - - - - --_ _



- 23 -
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 3009-AL)
4. STATUS OF COVENANTS
See PCR (Part I) para. 9.01
5. BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   TOTAL
Preappraisal      22.6   12.3                                          34.9
Appraisal                 35.0                                         35.0
Negotiation               16.1    5.9                                  22.0
Supervision                      26.1   26.6   17.2   15.3   1.6       86.8
Completion                                                    6.2       6.2
TOTAL          22.6   63.4   32.0   26.6   17.2   15.3   7.8    184.9



- 24 -
Page 1 of 2
AGRICTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOS 3009-AL)
B. M I S S I O N   D A T A /'
YEARS      TYPE OF MISSION                    TOTAL      MISSION                  ORGANIZATIONS AND
DAYS      MEMBERS                       FUNCTIONS
1973                                                                            PROG    LOAN OFFICER
OCT        IDENTIFICATION                        14    7 R. STORCH              PROG    LOAN OFFICER
7 MOMBRU
1974
NOV        IDENTIFICATION                         9    4 BART                   PROG    DIRECTOR PROG.
5 HOMSI                  PROG    LOAN OFFICER
1975
25/2 07/3  RECONNAISSANCE/IDENTIFICATION        21    7 HORST V. OPPENFELD    PROJ    AGRICULTURIST
7 F. HEIDHUES            PROJ    ECONOMIST
7 MARCEL HASSID          FAO     AG. CREDIT SPEC.
JUNE       IDENTIFICATION                        52   10 MARCEL HASSID          FAO      AG. CREDIT SPEC.
10 F. LUCANI              FAO     ECONOMIST
10 FREDET                 CONS    LIVESTOCK SPEC.
10 CLAESSENS              CONS    HORTICULTURIST
10 PURVIS                 CONS    FARM MANGT. SPEC.
2 FUKUDA-PARR            PROG    LOAN OFFICER
1976
FEB        IDENTIFICATION                         9    2 H. SCHULTE             PROG    DIVISION CHIEF
7 HORST V. OPPENFELD    PROJ    AGRICULTURIST
1987
FEB        PREPARATION                          62   13 LAURIE EFFRON           EMPA2   ECONOMIST/MIS. LEADER
13 LORETTA SONN           FAO     ECONOMIST
13 JEAN SOLEILLE          CONS    AGRICULTURIST
13 CHRISTIAN BARTOLI      CONS    FINANCIAL SPEC.
10 ZDENEK DRABEC          EM2CO   ECONOMIST
SEP        APPRAISAL                             52   21 LAURIE EFFRON          EMPA2   ECONOMIST/MIS. LEADER
5 CLAUDE BLANCHI         EMTAG   ADVISOR
7 ZDENEK DRABEC          EM2CO   ECONOMIST
15 LORETTA SONN           FAO     ECONOMIST
4 CARLOS GOIS            EMPA2   PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
FEB        PRE-NEGOTIATIONS                      14    5 HASSO A MOLINEUS       EM2CO   ECONOMIST
4 MICHAEL FOWLER         LOAEL   DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
5 MORAG VAN PRAAG        CONS    DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
1988
DEC        SUPERVISION                            2    2 CARLOS GOIS            EMPA2   PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
I/     Data  from  1973  to  1976  are  here  for historical  reasons  only.   Time  lag between
1976 and 1987 is due to the hiatus in the Bank's relations with Algeria, which
restarted in 1986.



- 25 -
Page 2 of 2
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 3009-AL)
B. M I S S I O N D A T A
YEARS      TYPE OF MISSION                  TOTAL     MISSION                 ORGANIZATIONS AND
DAYS     MEMBERS                      FUNCTIONS
1989
JAN        FIRST SUPERVISION MISSION          59  10 LAURIE EFFRON          EMPA2   ECONOMIST/MIS. LEADER
10 NICK KRAFFT          EMPA2   ECONOMIST
7 CLAUDE BLANCHI       EMTAG   ADVISOR
7 0. SACAY             EMTAG   ECONOMIST
7 C. BARTOLI           CONS    FINANCIAL SPEC.
4 P.GUIGOU              CONS   AGRO INDUSTRIAL SPEC.
7 M COUTANT            CONS    CREDIT SPEC.
7 ANTOUN MOUSSA         ITFUS   COMPUTER SPEC.
APR        SUPERVISION                              6 LAURIE EFFRON         EMPA2   ECONOMIST/TASK MANAGER
MAY        SUPERVISION                              7 CARLOS GOIS           EMPA2   PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
JUNE       SECOND SUPERVISION MISSION         37  14 LAURIE EFFRON          EMPA2   ECONOMIST/TASK MANAGER
6 CLAUDE BLANCHI       EMTAG   FINANCIAL ADVISOR
6 M COUTANT            CONS    CREDIT SPEC.
11 P.GUIGOU             CONS    AGRO INDUSTRIAL SPEC.
OCT        THIRD SUPERVISION MISSION          54    9 LAURIE EFFRON         EMPA2   ECONOMIST/TASK MANAGER
9 CLAUDE BLANCHI       EMTAG   FINANCIAL ADVISOR
9 LAVISTA                      FINANCIAL ANALYST
9 R. FARRUGIA          CONS    ACCOUNTING/COMPUTER SPEC.
9 P. GUIGOU            CONS    AGRO INDUSTRIAL SPEC.
9 A. ZINOUN            CONS    TRAINING SPEC.
1990
JULY       FOURTH SUPERVISION MISSION         18    6 LAURIE EFFRON         EMPA2   ECONOMIST/TASK MANAGER
6 BERNARD DUSSERT      EMPA2   FINANCIAL ANALYST
6 P. GUIGOU            CONS    AGRO INDUSTRIAL SPEC.
DEC        FIFTH SUPERVISION MISSION          52  13 BERNARD DUSSERT        EMPA2   FINANCIAL ANALYST
13 P. GUIGOU            CONS    AGRO INDUSTRIAL SPEC.
13 C. BARTOLI           CONS    BANKING/FINANCIAL SPEC.
13 A. VOLLE             CONS    COMPUTER SPEC.
1991
JULY       SIXTH SUPERVISION MISSION          27    9 LAURIE EFFRON         EMPA2   ECONOMIST/TASK MANAGER
9 P. GUIGOU            CONS    AGRO INDUSTRIAL SPEC.
9 M COUTANT            CONS    CREDIT SPEC.
1992
FEB       SUPERVISION VISIT                    1    1 LAURIE EFFRON         MN1AG   ECONOMIST/TASK MANAGER
APRIL      SEVENTH SUPERVISION MISSION        12    4 LAURIE EFFRON         MN1AG   ECONOMIST/TASK MANAGER
4 M COUTANT             CONS    CREDIT SPEC.
4 MR. SAHATDJIAN        CONS    AUDITOR/FIN. ANALYST
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 26 -
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 3009-AL)
6. RELATED BANK LOANS
(NOT APPLICABLE)
7. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
(IN '000 US$)
APPRAISAL    PRESENT       PRESENT
AS %
ESTIMATE    ESTIMATE    APPRAISAL
I. PROJECT COST
A) LENDING PROGRAM
ON-FARM INVESTMENTS                 460.0        400.0        86.96%
AGRO-INDUSTRY                        86.0          6.0         6.98%
SUB-TOTAL A)                        546.0       406.0         74.36%
B) INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
TRAINING                              3.0          0.0         0.00%
M.I.S.                               19.7          7.0        35.53%
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  0.5          0.0         0.00%
SUB-TOTAL A)                         23.2          7.0        30.17%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     569.2        413.0        72.56%
II. PROJECT FINANCING
A) IBRD                                110.0         76.0        69.09%
B) EXIMBANK                            110.0         76.0        69.09%
C) BADR                                158.6        150.0        94.58%
D) INVESTORS                           190.6        111.0        58.24%
TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING                569.2        413.0        72.56%









2r                     0                                               4"                    6"' r  1
,,W,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "'@'t': -' 
0                                                                                                                  36'-~~~~~~~~~
T-0~~~~~~~~
Mostogon~~~~~~~~~~~~n,  .j200  . ~ ~   ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      d  .
AA~~~~~~~~  e                                                    Oun,   El,                                  36~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.W IdE-kC-.,
* QA         t       t __                                           M* ,,,             rT Iu  * 4 f  
i *0'  *                         T,,t                *       *                                                   Tebe. )       r'>  -- ~ E~o f   
(                                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
>   >            > ~~     ~~~T_                  O dlefo                     fB.-Sk ru        0                 The/_ houndo,ne- coo
\ > ~~~~~ -' ~~~~~ ' ' - ~~~~~~~ -_ . i / / ~~~~~~~~Ther Wordd Booki G,oup.
A                                                                 /        status of any~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o -h.t,
Z                                           .                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bcundo ro.
)  *                                                                                         KILOMETERS
;                                                             v                    \      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 50   100 15
.0                                                                              *                                  MILE5100
32                                                                                      ____________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
ALGERIA                                                                                          ALGERS
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                     M (P
PREMIER PROJET DE CREDIT AGRICOLE                                                                                Areo of p
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
BANQUE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
LOCATION OF BADR OFFICES                                                                         A&ar
IMPLANTATION DU RESEAU BADR                                                                    A  L G  E  R  I A
C HEADOUARTERS         0 REGIONAL OFFICES       * BRANCH OFFICES        WILAYA BOUNDARIES
AGENCES PRINCIPALES     SUCCURSALE             AGENCES                LIMITATION WILAYA                              \N/
6                                                                                                                        _                  _ sX o-  r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  o    ./Ol



