Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3009 AL
(Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANQUE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Dated August 31, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3009 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 31, 1989 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  
AND  DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANQUE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the  Democratic  and  Popular Republic of Algeria (the Guarantor) 
and the Borrower,  having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
(C)
the  Borrower intends to contract from the Export-Import Bank of  Japan a 
loan (the EXIMBANK Loan) in an amount equivalent to one hundred ten million dollars 
($110,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms  and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Export-Import Bank of Japan;
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
 General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below  
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(b)
the words "or for Investment Projects" are added after the words "the 
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Guarantor pursuant to a letter dated March 31, 1987, signed 
by the Guarantor and the Bank;
(c)
"Agro-industrial enterprise" means an enterprise involved either in the  
production, processing, conditioning or marketing of food products, or in the 
manufacture of agricultural implements or equipment, or both, or in the provision  of 
agroindustrial-related services;
(d)
"Investor" means any private farmer or Agro-industrial enterprise to whom 
the Borrower proposes to make or has made an Investment Loan;
(e)
"Investment Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made under Part A  
of the Project by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investor for an 
Investment Project;
(f)
"Investment Project" means a specific agricultural or agro-industrial 
development project referred to in Part A of the Project, to be carried out by  an 
Investor utilizing the proceeds of an Investment Loan;
(g)
"BADR Statutes" means the Guarantor's Decree 82-106 of March 13, 1982 
establishing the Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(h)
"Banking Law" means the Guarantor's Law No. 86-12 dated August 19, 1986 
on Banking and Credit as amended by Law No. 88-06, dated January 12, 1988; and
(i)
"Fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which coincides with the 
calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various  
currencies equivalent to one hundred ten million dollars ($110,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank of Algeria on terms  and  conditions  
Page  3
satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required  to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn  and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1992 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum  for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one  percent per annum above the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the  commencement of such 
Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such 
Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest  Period"  means  the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project and conduct its lending operations and  affairs with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate banking, technical, administrative, 
financial, economic and agricultural credit standards and practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section  3.02.  Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement the Borrower shall:
(a)
make Investment Loans to Investors for Investment Projects on the basis 
of the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
(b)
exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such a 
manner as to: (i) protect the interest of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the  purposes of Part A of the 
Project.
Section 3.03.  Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,  
Page  4
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project  and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall make legal arrangements, in consultation with 
the Bank, with public agencies of the Guarantor for the purpose of the procurement and 
distribution of goods required for Investment Projects.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30, 1990, prepare the master plans referred to 
in Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and furnish said plans to the Bank for review and comment; 
and
(b)
promptly thereafter, draft detailed tender documents for computer 
hardware and software provided under Part B.1 of the Project and implement said plans.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 1990, furnish to the Bank for review and comment 
drafts of: (i) its medium-term plan referred to in Part B.3 (i) of the Project; (ii) 
the terms and conditions for lending to the private sector and loan monitoring 
referred to in Part B.3 (ii) of the Project; and (iii) a scheme for writing off its 
bad debts in lending to the private sector; and
(b)
not later than June 30, 1991, finalize and thereafter commence  
implementation of said plan, terms and conditions, and scheme.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related  statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank may have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  5
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall keep its capital at least at the level of 
December  31,  1987, unless a change of said capital is necessitated by future legal 
requirements.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, the term "capital" means the sum  of 
the subscribed capital, reserves, provisions similar to reserves and that  part of 
profits which is to be allocated annually to reserves and statutory provisions.
Section 4.03. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current assets to 
current liabilities of not less than 1:5, unless a change is necessitated by future 
legal requirements.
(b)
At least once in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower, review whether it would meet the  
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such  fiscal 
year and the next following fiscal year.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for the fiscal years  covered 
by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all measures within  its power as 
shall be necessary in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months.
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could, under circumstances then 
existing, be called for payment within twelve months.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times take all action necessary on its 
part to protect itself against foreign exchange risks related to the Loan.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall maintain provisions for bad debts at such 
levels as shall be necessary to protect itself fully against risk of default  under 
credit extended to the private sector.
Section 4.06.  Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall utilize all amounts received in repayment of principal of  Investment 
Loans, to the extent they are not yet required to meet the Borrower's payment 
obligations to the Bank under this Agreement, exclusively  to finance further 
investments in the private agricultural and agro-industrial sector.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Banking Law, or the BADR Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations 
or financial condition of the Borrower or the ability of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
EXIMBANK Loan Agreement shall have been suspended, cancelled 
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement; or
(B)
the EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and payable prior to 
Page  6
the agreed maturity thereof, pursuant to the terms of the 
EXIMBANK Loan Agreement.
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
The EXIMBANK Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1989, or such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree   upon; 
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply  if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the 
Project will be available to the Borrower from other sources and on  terms consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of said Section.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as  
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banque de l'Agriculture et du
    Developpement Rural
17 Boulevard Colonel Amirouche
Algiers
Algeria
Telex:
62-239-40
Page  7
                                                66-096
                                                62-417
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of  America, as  of  the day and year first 
above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    BANQUE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DU
                      DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
                    By /s/ Lazhar Ghamri
                                         Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Tractors                 68,000,000  )     50% of foreign
     and vehicles,                        )     expenditures and
     and other equip-                     )     50% of local
     ment for on-farm                     )     expenditures
     investment                           )     (ex-factory
                                          )     cost)
(2)  Agro-industrial          23,000,000  )
     equipment                            )
(3)  Electronic data-          9,000,000        50%
     processing equip-
     ment and associated
     software, training
     and technical
     assistance for
     Part B.1 of the
     Project
(4)  Training under            1,500,000        50%
     Part B.2 of the
     Project
(5)  Consultants'                300,000        50%
     services under
     Parts B.2 and B.3
     of the Project
(6)  Refunding of                750,000        Amount due pur-
Page  8
     Project Pre-                               suant to Section
     paration                                   2.02 (c) of this
     Advance                                    Agreement
(7)  Unallocated               7,450,000
     TOTAL                   110,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures"  means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the Borrower's  development 
and commercial banking activities, its management capabilities   and its financial 
structure; and (b) finance productive facilities and related  services in the private 
agricultural and agro-industrial sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Investment Loans
 
The provision of Investment Loans to Investors for the financing of Investment 
Projects.
Part B:
Institutional Development
 
1.
The development and carrying out of a master plan to implement a suitable 
accounting system and management information system, including the provision  of 
computer hardware, software, and training and technical assistance
required therefor.
2.
The development and carrying out of a master plan of internal and external  
training of the Borrower's staff, including the provision of training equipment and 
materials.
3.
The establishment by the Borrower of a framework for its future credit 
operations including, inter alia: (i) its medium-term plan on expansion of  lending to 
farmers and Agro-industries; (ii) a set of terms and conditions for  lending to the 
private agricultural sector and loan monitoring; and (iii) proposals for financial 
management and procedures to ensure its financial viability.
*     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1994
     through   September 15, 2003                     5,500,000
Page  9
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per annum) applicable
                                           to the balance out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the day of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Page  10
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid  packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Democratic and Popular Republic of  Algeria may be 
granted a margin of preference in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost between the equivalents of $150,000 and $500,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of  $5,000,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded through limited  international bidding procedures 
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of  bids invited from a list of at least 
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with 
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8. 
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 per contract,  up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price   quotations obtained 
after consultation of at least three suppliers eligible  under the Guidelines and at a 
cost acceptable to the Bank.
3.
An Investor who has obtained the necessary authorizations to purchase, may 
procure goods directly for its own use, up to an aggregate amount equivalent  to 
$1,500,000 or less, through that Investor's normal procurement procedures  for such 
contracts, from suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. In case such contracts are procured in   accordance with Part 
C.3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for review a description 
of the goods, the relevant invoices and the draft contracts, if any. Where payments 
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the  Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist in carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be established by the Bank and the Borrower.  Such consultants, when 
Page  11
their contract is financed out of the Loan, shall be  selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 5 set forth in 
the table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special  Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation,  the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such conditions as the Bank shall specify. On the basis  of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit  into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be  withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the 
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this   Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when  either  of 
the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures  
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such  
Page  12
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special  Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
SCHEDULE 6
Investment Projects and Investment Loans:
Criteria, Procedures and
Principal Terms and Conditions
For purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement and except as the Bank and 
the Borrower may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall make Investment Loans  to 
Investors for Investment Projects in conformity with the criteria,   procedures and 
principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Schedule.
I.
Criteria and Procedures for Approval of Investment Loans
 
A.
Investment Loans shall be made to Investors for Investment Projects only after 
it has been established, on the basis of an appraisal report, prepared in  accordance 
with a method determined by the Bank and the Borrower, that the Investor is 
creditworthy and the Investment Project is technically, financially and economically 
feasible and environmentally sound.
B.
Investment Loans to Agro-industrial enterprises shall be made only:
 
(1)
for an Investment Project of which the aggregate estimated cost does not exceed 
the equivalent of $7,000,000; and
(2)
to an Agro-industrial enterprise which shall have established to the 
satisfaction of the Borrower on the basis of the appraisal report, referred to  in 
Part I.A of this Schedule, that:
(a)
its supply of inputs and its marketing plans are sufficient to 
enable it to carry out the Investment Project;
(b)
its  administrative and financial structures are appropriate for the 
purposes of carrying out the Investment Project;
(c)
the Investment Project is estimated to have a discounted financial rate 
of return of at least 15%; and
(d)
it uses primarily locally produced goods such as fruits, vegetables and 
cereals or produces finished or semi-finished equipment or products, or renders 
services for the use of farmers or fishermen.
C.
(1)
The first five Investment Loans to Agro-industrial enterprises and any 
Investment Loan of which the estimated amount exceeds the equivalent of $2,000,000 
shall be made only after the Bank shall have determined that said  Investment Loan was 
made in accordance with the criteria and procedures of this Schedule.
(2)
To obtain approval by the  Bank for the Investment Loans referred to in Part 
I.C.(1) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the  following 
documents which will be acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the elements indicated 
in this Schedule:
(a)
an appraisal report of the Investment Project, including a  description 
of the activities to be financed out of the Investment Loan;
(b)
the information referred to in Part I.B of this Schedule; and
 
Page  13
(c)
the terms and conditions of the Investment Loan, including the 
amortization schedule therefor.
D.
With respect to Investment Loans, other than those referred to in Part I.C.(1) 
of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(a)
a summary description of the type of activities to be financed out of 
each Investment Loan;
(b)
the terms and conditions of the Investment Loan, including the 
amortization schedule therefor.
II.
Principal Terms and Conditions of Investment Loans
 
A.
(1)
Investment Loans shall be made upon terms and conditions, adequate to  
cover the total expenses and financial costs of the Borrower's operations, and  in 
accordance with the legal provisions applicable to the Borrower.
(2)
For the purposes of the preceding paragraph:
 
(a)
the term "expenses" means all expenses related to the  Borrower's  
operations, including operating costs, and, if necessary, provisions for repair and 
construction and provisions for overdue loans; and
(b)
the term "financial costs" means all the Borrower's banking costs 
including  interest incurred on debit accounts and sight deposits, premiums for 
financing of liquidity, interest and commissions incurred on debt service, and 
interest on bonds and term deposits.
B.
Investment Loans shall be made  on terms whereby the Borrower shall have  
obtained, by written contract or other appropriate legal means, rights  adequate to 
protect its interest, including that each Investor shall undertake to:
(1)
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial  standards and 
practices and provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities  and other resources 
required for the purposes;
(2)
use the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the  Loan 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(3)
(a)
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor  both the 
physical and financial aspects of all investment and production   activities of the 
Investor; and (b) disclose to the Borrower all information  concerning the Investor 
and the Investment Project;
(4)
enable the representatives of the Bank and the Borrower together to  visit any 
facilities and examine all equipment included in the Investment Project;
(5)
at all times operate and maintain any facilities relevant to the Investment 
Project and promptly as needed, make or cause to be made all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof; and  
(6)
ensure the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Investor to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investor to 
perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
