Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15090-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 10, 1995
Agriculture and Natural Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(April 1995)
Bangladesh Taka 1               =     US$0.0248
US$1                                 Tk 40.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     =     1.1 yards (yd)
1 kilometer (km)                =     0.61 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  =     2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRE          -    Brahmaputra Right Embankment
BRTS         -    River Training Studies of the Brahmaputra River
BWDB         -    Bangladesh Water Development Board
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CEP          -    Coastal Embankment Project
CERP         -    Coastal Embankment Protection Project
CF           -    Conversion Factor
CY           -    Calendar Year
CIDA         -    Canadian International Development Agency
CRE          -    Chief Resident Engineer
ERPG         -    Environmental and Resettlement Group (of BWDB)
ERR          -    Economic Rate of Return
FAP          -    Flood Action Plan
FCD          -    Flood Control and Drainage
FPCO         -    Flood Plan Coordination Organization
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GOB          -    Government of Bangladesh
HYV          -    High Yielding Variety
HWL          -    High Water Level
ICB          -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -    International Development Association
LGED         -    Local Government Engineering Department
LWL          -    Low Water Level
LWUD         -    Land and Water Use Directorate (of BWDB)
MoWR         -    Ministry of Water Resources
MPO          -    Master Plan Organization
NCB          -    National Competitive Bidding
NGO          -    Non-Government Organization
NPV          -    Net Present Value
NWP          -    National Water Plan
OED          -    Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank
O&M          -    Operations and Maintenance
PAP          -    Project Affected Person
PMRU              Project Management and Resettlement Unit
PPAR         -    Project Performance Audit Report
RAC          -    Regional Accounting Center
RAP          -    Resettlement Action Plan
RBPP         -    River Bank Protection Project
SDR               Special Drawing Right
UNDP         -    United Nations Development Programme
WARPO        -    Water Resources Planning Organization
GOB FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



-a-
GLOSSARY
Aman                   -   Rice planted before or during the monsoon season (July-September) and
harvested in November and December.
Aus                    -   Rice planted during March or April and harvested during June or July.
Bank Erosion            -   A continuous process of gradual removal of soil from a river bank by water
currents which eventually results in sections of the river bank collapsing into the
river.
Borrow Area             -   Area from which soil is taken to construct earthworks.
Breach                  -   A large gap in the structure or riverbank through which flood waters
escape into the protected area or hinterland.
Char                   -   Sediment island in a river channel.
Confluence             -   Location of the junction of two rivers.
Cross-Bars             -   Embankments constructed normal to the river bank on the
flood plain.
District               -   Administrative unit in Bangladesh within the jurisdiction of a Deputy
Commissioner.
Embankment              -   Wall of compacted earth constructed parallel to a river to confine its overbank
spill to the vicinity of the river bank.
Embayment               -   A feature of river bank formed by river bank erosion having a bay-like shape or
planform.
Engineer               -   Person delegated with powers and duties to administer and supervise
implementation of construction contracts based on IDA's Standard Bidding
Documents.
Engineer's              -   Person to whom some of the powers and duties of the Engineer have been
Representative              delegated in order to enable him/her to undertake day-to-day supervision of a
contractor's work.
Falling Apron           -   Layers of concrete blocks or rock placed on the river bed at the toe of a
revetment which would roll down and protect the toe in the event of river bed
erosion.
Fascine Mattress       -   Bamboo frame with geotextile filter sheets placed on a stable river bank slope
and ballasted with armor material (rock or concrete blocks).
Groyne                 -   A rigid structure built out from the shore to stop erosion by deflecting the
current. The body of the groyne is the "shank" and its end is the "nose".
Hydraulic Fill         -   Process of land reclamation or earthfill using a dredger to pump a soil-water
mixture into a confined area.



-b-
Katcha Building        -   A structure made of traditional materials.
Minor Irrigation       -   Irrigation using mechanical pumps typically in units less than 50 ha.
Monsoon                -   Period of rains starting in June and ending in October.
Polder                 -  Low-lying land area encircled by embankments to prevent the ingress of flood
waters.
Pourashava             -   Town or municipal council.
Project Proforma       -   An internal GOB document required to obtain authorization for inclusion of a
project in the investment budget.
Retirement             -  Replacement of a section of embankment destroyed by river bank erosion
(of an embankment)         by construction of a new embankment some distance further inland from the
original alignment.
Revetment              -   A facing of stone or concrete to protect an embankment from erosion.
Pucca Building         -   Well-constructed road or building using modern masonry materials.
or Road
Scour                  -   Concentrated removal of river bed material by rapid water currents.



BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................................................  (iii)
1. SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND    .                                .
A. Land and Water Sector Development Constraints .1
B   Evolution of the Governrment's Sector Strategy.                               5
C. Brahmaputra River Bank Protection Needs.                                       6
D. Bangladesh Water Development Board.                                            9
E. IDA's Country and Sector Assistance Strategy .12
2. THE PROJECT                             ...13
A. Project Objectives and Concepts .13
B. Rationale for IDA's Involvement .15
C. Project Components .16
D. Project Area .16
E. Detailed Features .16
F. Environmental Aspects .24
G. Status of Preparation and Implementation Schedule .25
H. Project Cost .26
I. Project Financing .27
J. Procurement .28
K. Disbursements .30
L. Accounts and Audit .31
3.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..                   ...32
4.    PROJECT BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS                                         36
A. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries .36
B. Economic Analysis .39
C. Economic Rate of Return.                                                       41
D. Project Risks .41
E. Sensitivity Analysis .43
5.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                                   44
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission undertaken in July 1992. Mission members
were Messrs. T. Herman (Task Manager), W. Schwermer, 0. Myint (IDA); E. Hakar, J. Rogge, P. Yoon, M.
Hossain, S. Haque, S.M. Nurul Alam and A.I. Chowdhury (Consultants). An IDA updating mission was
undertaken in January 1995 comprising Messrs. G.T. Keith Pitman (Task Manager) and H. Gassner. The report
has been endorsed by Mrs. M. Nishimizu, Director, SA1DR and Mr. R. Ali, Chief, SAIAN. Peer review was
provided by Messrs. I. Mobarek (SAIIN), W. Price (ASTEN) and J. McIntire (SAIAN), who reviewed the river
engineering, general planning and economic aspects respectively.



ii
TEXT TABLES
2.1 Project Cost Estimates
2.2 Financing Plan
2.3 Methods of Procurement
4.1 Sensitivity Analysis (ERR)
ANNEXES
1.    Design Considerations and Criteria for River Bank Revetments
2.    Design Considerations for BRE Retirement at Sariakandi
3.    Resettlement Action Plan
4.    Operations and Maintenance Support
5.    Environmental Impact Assessment
6.    Project Costs
7     Project Monitoring Indicators and Project Schedules
8.    Economic Analysis
9     Reporting Requirements
10.    Project Supervision Schedule
I1.    Project Coordination and Civil Works Management Duties
12.    Selected Documents in the Project File
13.    National Water Planning and Management
MAPS: IBRD 27505: River Bank Protection Project
IBRD 27506: Simulated Area Flooded by Merger of Brahmaputra and Bangali Rivers at
Sariakandi



iii
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECT[ON PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:                  People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Implementine Agency:       Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB).
Beneficiary:               Not Applicable.
Poverty:                   Not specifically focused, but flooding and river bank erosion disproportionately
affect the poor who have minimal assets to buffer flood losses or involuntary
relocation. Many of the poorest are former erosion victims.
Amount:                    SDR 78.4 million (US$121.9 million equivalent).
Terms:                     Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:            0.5% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days afler signing, less any
waiver.
Financine Plan:            See Schedule A.
Economic Rate of Return:   The beneficiaries of the project would be the estimated 2-3 million people living
in the area of potential disaster caused by the Brahmaputra breaching its right
bank at Mathurapara-Sariakandi to flow down the Bangali river channel. About
125,500 urban people will be protected from severe property loss,
impoverishment and physical displacement caused by river bank erosion or
chronic flooding at Sirajganj and Sariakandi. Flooding of the approaches to the
Jamuna Bridge would disrupt local trade. The project would protect agricultural
production over an area of about 100,000 ha from annual flooding and control
erosion at Sirajganj which is essential for the security of the Jamuna Bridge.
Property losses prevented in the first five-year period would include 16,400
houses and shops, 75 factories, at least 9,000 traditional dwellings and
considerable public infrastructure. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
project is 39%, and 45% and 35% respectively for the Sirajganj and Sariakandi-
Mathurapara subprojects. The ERR does not include the national water planning
or BWDB institution building component.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 15090-BD.
Maps:                     IBRD No. 27505: River Bank Protection Project.
IBRD No. 27506: Project Area Inundation Scenarios.
Proiect Identification Number:  BD-PA-9545.



BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
1. SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Land and Water Sector Development Constraints
The Physical Environment
1.1    Flooding. Bangladesh, with an area of 144,000 sq. km and a population of over 120 million, is
comprised mostly of the fertile alluvial floodplains and the delta of the Ganges-Brahmaputra-Meghna river
system. These three rivers combine within the country to form the world's third largest river, the Lower
Meghna, which drains into the Bay of Bengal via a constantly changing network of estuaries and tidal
creeks (Map IBRD 27505). The monsoon discharge of the major rivers is so large that regular spillage into
the floodplain normally occurs via numerous spill channels. The high water levels in the major rivers cause
drainage congestion and overbank spillage of their tributaries which is often exacerbated by runoff from
coincident high local rainfall. Over the 1954-1993 period, this resulted in seasonal and fairly predictable
inundation over an average of about 26,200 sq. km or about 27% of the country's net cultivable area of
95,600 sq. km. This inundation not only facilitates traditional monsoon rice (aman) cultivation, but also
helps to maintain soil fertility, floodplain capture fisheries and wetlands biodiversity. However, periodic
severe flooding is common: during the above 39-year period, flooding covered 37% of the territory one year
out of 10, and the record was in 1988 when almost 60% of the territory was inundated.
1.2    River Bank Erosion. The combined annual average sediment load entering Bangladesh and
conveyed to the Bay of Bengal via the main rivers is estimated to be about 0.77 billion tons; varying over a
range of 0.45-1.84 billion tons during the period 1956-1988. A part of this sediment load is deposited on
the floodplain during the flood season, gradually changing its topography and drainage conditions. Most of
the sediment is deposited in the coastal areas, giving rise to land accretion and a gradually changing
coastline. The large seasonal variation in river flow results in a fluctuating sediment transport capacity and
causes river-bank erosion, migration of river-banks and meandering river channels. Thus, the floodplains
and coastal delta are in a constant state of slow morphological change: some river channels atrophy while
others become more active; some rivers merge while others gradually change their course. Recent satellite
image studies of the Ganges-Brahmaputra-Middle Meghna rivers under the Bangladesh Flood Action Plan
(FAP) show that 106,300 ha were lost to erosion, while only 19,300 ha was accreted over the period 1982-
92. The net area of 87,000 ha lost to erosion is equivalent to an annual erosion rate of 8,700 ha, most of it
agricultural land.
1.3   Saline Inundation and Cyclones. About 32% of the 27,100 sq. kn of coastal land is affected by
soil salinity caused by tidal inundation, cyclone storn surges and saline groundwater.  In this region,
monsoon rainfall is generally sufficient to reduce topsoil salinity so that transplanted aman rice crops can
be grown. Crops on the coastal fringe - not protected by coastal embankments - can be affected by saline
water during exceptionally high tides, and sometimes more seriously by late or low monsoon rainfall in the
southwestern districts. The southeastern coastal area is particularly vulnerable to damage caused by



2
cyclonic storms and wind-driven storm surges of up to 6 m or more. The Bangladesh coast has been hit by
14 major cyclones over the past 25 years, causing economic damage and loss of life and livestock.
Vulnerability to Floods and Cyclones
1.4   Flood Vulnerability of Agriculture. The land-water complex of the deltaic alluvial floodplain has
given rise to a productive agricultural economy adapted to the seasonable vagaries of flood and tidal
(saline) inundation, drought, cyclones and river-bank erosion. In the past, this economy was based on
predominantly subsistence agriculture: low yield broadcast (floating) aman rice and jute were the dominant
crops as they were adapted to the depth, timing and duration of inundation, while floodplain fisheries
provided the main source of animal protein for the rural population. Houses and hamlets were constructed
on mounds raised above the average annual flood depth in each locality. Population growth led to
cultivation of all available land and a decrease in farm sizes. As a result, the productivity of the traditional
cropping pattern became inadequate for the growing population's requirements, and foodgrain availability
became more vulnerable to damage by periodic floods. Famine sometimes occurred when severe floods
were followed by drought.
1.5   In the 1950s-1960s, it was believed that crop vulnerability to flood damage could be reduced by
construction of river embankments and polders, and a Master Plan was formulated in 1964 to empolder the
country. It was believed that such works would promote higher aman rice production by the creation of
flood-free areas. This strategy was supported by donors and led to the empoldering of over 3 million ha, or
about one-third of the net cultivated area. Although investments in flood control and drainage (FCD)
projects exceeded US$1 billion over a 30-year period, their contribution to increased foodgrain output was
marginal. However, foodgrain production rose from 9.9 million tons in 1961/62 to nearly 19 million tons in
1990. About two-thirds of this increase came from dry season cropping made possible by the introduction
of minor irrigation by tubewells and low-lift pumps, together with increased use of fertilizer and high
yielding varieties (HYV) of rice. At present, about one-third of the country's net cultivated area is
irrigated, of which about 93% is irrigated by privately-owned minor irrigation equipment. Thus, the
vulnerability of crop production to flood damage has been reduced by the growth of reliable dry season
HYV irrigated rice production. Nevertheless, given a more or less fixed cultivable area, there is a constant
race between population increase and foodgrain production.
1.6   Flood Vulnerability of Non-Agricultural Sectors.  Economic development has resulted in
growing urban areas with commercial and manufacturing establishments and municipal service
infrastructure. Investments in railways, roads, bridges, power and communications have created physical
and economic links between urban and rural areas but have also led to congestion of the floodplains. Even
though infrastructure was originally planned to accommodate annual inundation patterns, uncoordinated
development of the floodplains and their upper catcbments over the last two decades has increased flood
hazard. In consequence, the economic damage caused by major floods to both private property and public
assets has increased over the years. The growing urban areas are also increasingly affected and vulnerable.
The 1987 and 1988 floods resulted in severe disruption of economic activities, human hardship, and the
diversion of scarce public and private resources to reconstruction and rehabilitation. It is estimated that the
1987 floods caused total damage of US$0.5 billion and those of 1988 US$1.8 billion, 1,500 were drowned
and potential GDP was estimated by GOB to be reduced by 4%.
1.7    Vulnerability to Tidal Inundation, Cyclonic Storms and Surges. The tidal inundation of the
populated lowlands of the coastal zone estuaries has been controlled over an area of about 10,000 sq. km to
enable improved rice cultivation within polders constructed in the past 25 years under the Coastal



3
Embankment Project (CEP). While the 5,000 km. of embankments comprising the CEP polders provide
protection against crop damage by high monsoon waves and minor cyclone surges, they alone cannot
provide adequate cyclone protection to the growing population as sea-facing polder embankments are
periodically breached by cyclone surges. The only reliable life-saving protection against major cyclone
surges is a network of elevated concrete shelters which has been steadily expanded since they were first
introduced on a small scale in the 1970s under the IDA-financed Cyclone Protection I Project
(Cr. 339-BD). Embankments can, however, reduce the loss of lives, providing more time for people to
reach cyclone shelters and some protection for those who do not make it to the shelters. A Multipurpose
Cyclone Shelter Project is currently being prepared for IDA consideration with the assistance of the
European Union on the basis of the Multipurpose Cyclone Shelter Master Plan financed by UNDP (UNDP
Study BGD/91/025) for which IDA was the executing agency. An IDA-supported Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation Project to strengthen sea-facing embankments, is expected to be ready for presentation at
about the same time as this operation.
Vulnerability to River Bank Erosion alone Maior Rivers
1.8    Almost 4.3 million people lived in the active floodplain of these four rivers in 1992-93, the
majority of them along the Brahmaputra-Jamuna" and Meghna. Of the total floodplain population, 1.85
million (43 percent) live on sand islands (called "chars"), and they are concentrated in the Brahmaputra-
Jamuna and Meghna. In the Brahmaputra-Jamuna, they are spread along the length of the river, but in the
Meghna, they are concentrated in the confluence and lower reach. These two rivers are the only ones where
the island char population grew after the 1981 census. Landsat image analysis gives an estimate of almost
87,000 ha lost due to bankline erosion (net of accretion), more than 50 percent of which was along the
Brahmaputra-Jamuna. On average, about 8,700 ha of mainland are lost each year to erosion by main
rivers. Within-channel changes, however, result in replacement of mainland by chars: more than 50,000
ha of char accreted (net) betwveen about 1984 and 1993.
1.9    Average annual erosion rates vary greatly between rivers and river reaches. The upper Meghna is
more or less stable, while the lower Meghna expericnced extensive and extreme erosion during 1984-93,
particularly on the right bank. Sustained annual erosion rates of 100 meters or more over a 10-year period
are notable, and occurred on both the lower Meghna and Padma, where satellite image analysis in the
inventory reports reveals major changes in the river courses in this period. Differences in left and right
bank erosion rates mean that the Brahmaputra-Jamuna, and to a lesser extent the Padma and Meghna, are
migrating. Analysis of historic maps and satellite images shows that the Brahmaputra-Jamuna's centerline
has moved an average of 4.3 km west since 1830, with a maximum westward moment of 13 km at its
northem end. Analysis of a series of images from 1973-92 shows that this river is migrating westward at
an average rate of 50 m per year.
1.10   The centerlines of all the rivers are moving, but all except the upper Meghna have also been
widening. The Ganges has widened relatively slowly, but the Brahmaputra-Jamuna has widened over a
19-year period at well over 100 m a year averaged over its length. Given that this river course is more
braided and older than the Padma, which carries the same flow, over time the same widening may occur.
The effects of bankline erosion and wvidening of the river channel have been great. Analysis of population
data, combined with the satellite image analysis, indicates that during the period 1981-92/93 an average of
almost 64,000 people were displaced by bank erosion every year, or 728,000 people over the whole period.
After entering Bangladesh, the Brahmaputra river bifurcates nonh of Jamalpur, the smaller eastem branch flowing to the east of Dhaka
being named the Old Brahmaputra, the main stream which flows almost due south to join the Ganges and form the Padma, being called the
Jamuna. 'hus the river from the border with India to its confluence with the Ganges is called the Brahmaputra-Jamuna.



4
More than half the displacement was along the Brahmaputra-Jamuna. This ignores changes in the chars
within the changing banklines. Char erosion and accretion results in more people being displaced, and in
the Brahmaputra-Jamuna it was found that 90 percent of the within-bank area had changed between char
and water at least once during 1973-92. Therefore, a majority of char inhabitants are likely to have moved
during this period. The growth of within-bank char areas means that some erosion victims can find a living
in the chars. The study estimated the population that was displaced by erosion, but that could not have
been accommodated in the charlands and instead shifted either to the charland fringe (sheltering on
embankments) or left the charlands completely. According to these estimates, 187,000 people perrnanently
left the Brahmnaputra-Jamuna charlands, 19,000-44,000 left the Ganges, 123,000 departed the Padma, and
about 120,000 left the Meghna. Hence, an estimated 462,000 people were displaced over an 11-year
period, or 12 percent of the 1981 charland population.
1.11   Brahmaputra River. Due to the periodic formation and decay of large chars and sandbars in the
Brahmaputra River, constantly changing river currents attack its banks and cause erosion at apparently
random locations. Such bank erosion may initially reach rates of several hundred meters per year and
create an embayment in the bank several kilometers long as the river channel seeks to readjust its channel
capacity to accommodate a growving char. These high bank erosion rates drop when channel capacity has
been regained and/or the char stops growing or erodes. The embayment may partially accrete or remain
until further erosion occurs several years later with the advent of another large semi-permanent char
nearby. The rate of bank erosion on the Brahmaputra River is strongly influenced by the magnitude of
flood flows: e.g., the 1987 and 1988 floods resulted in accelerated erosion at an unusually high number of
localities and bank erosion rates of up to six times the annual average. At present, erosion along its west
(right) bank exceeds accretion, and the river has been widening at an average rate of 126 m/year since
1981, accompanied by the annual creation of 1,960 ha of charland from sediment dumped within the
channel which starts a new cycle of erosion. Erosion along the Brahmaputra right bank also periodically
breaches the 180 km long Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). This causes widespread flooding in an
area that has enjoyed significant economic development over the past 30 years due to the flood protection
provided by the embankment.
1.12   Meghna River. Along the Lower Meghna, gradual eastward bank-line retreat of several tens of
meters per year has occurred. This has led to severe bank erosion at Chandpur town over the past fifty
years, and has caused erosion damage to the commercial center of the town and now threatens the railway
station and ferry terminal building. Breaching by erosion of the Chandpur and Meghna-Donagoda projects'
embankmnents along the Lower Meghna causes flooding and reduces their development impact. The
meandering Upper Meghna River transports less sediment than the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers and
suffers localized bank erosion only at diverse locations due to the slow growth and decay of its sediment
islands. Due to the more rapid recession of Upper Meghna flood flows, bank erosion is also caused by
groundwater seepage when water levels drop quickly after the passage of a flood. Such local erosion now
threatens Bhairab Bazar Town, its Railway Bridge, and the power line crossing carrying electricity to the
Dhaka area from the nearby Ashuganj Power Station. The southern abutment of the new Meghna Roads
and Highways Bridge on the Dhaka-Chittagong road that crosses the Meghna is also threatened by bank
erosion. The recent growth of riverine market towns such as Bhairab Bazar, Chandpur and Munshiganj -
with their present combined population of about 186,000 and their appurtenant riparian commercial
buildings, physical infrastructure (e.g., oil and transport terminals) - now means that bank erosion is a
significant and growing economic hazard.



5
B. Evolution of the Government's Sector Strateeg
1.13   The Role of IDA. IDA's 1972 Land and Water Resources Sector Study2' initially set the agenda
for IDA's long-term strategy in land and water sector development in Bangladesh and helped to define and
provide significant input for the Government's sectoral development strategy. The Study recommended that
emphasis be given to projects that would intensify and diversify agricultural production through public
investment in minor irrigation (small low-lift pumps and deep tubewells) and de-emphasized major FCD
projects.  It concluded that appropriate agro-technology for dry season production would reduce
vulnerability to flood and drought hazards. It proposed that the monsoon production vulnerability problem
should be overcome by small FCD projects. The latter approach was endorsed by a joint Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) and IDA study in 1979.' While public investment in minor irrigation and subsidized
fertilizer supply had been initially successful in promoting growth, by the early 1980s it became clear that
widespread adoption of irrigated HYV rice production was hampered by inefficient public policies and
institutions. More Government policy reforms, which were in line with IDA advice, included privatization
of minor irrigation equipment and fertilizer supply. These reforms, together with the advent of cheaper
shallow tubewell technology, facilitated a subsequent rapid increase in dry season rice production and
attainment of rice self-sufficiency in years of normal weather.+'
1.14   A National Water Plan (NWP) completed in 1991 by a specially created Master Plan Organization
(MPO), sought, inter alia, to determine the potential limits of minor irrigation in meeting the projected
demand for foodgrain. UNDP financed this work, with IDA as executing agency, but neither UNDP nor
IDA had control over the recommendations of the NWP. It proposed an ambitious US$4.2 billion 20-year
program for construction of FCD projects to increase monsoon rice production and to complement minor
irrigation development. The plan also recommended studies to establish the engineering and economic
feasibility of Ganges and Brahmaputra Barrage Irrigation Projects by CY2005, and measures to control
salinity in the South-West region.  The NWP has several shortcomings as it did not consider:
(a) institutional implementation capacity; (b) the potentially severe adverse environmental impacts of many
FCD projects; (c) the efficacy of major surface irrigation schemes, especially in areas irrigable by private
minor irrigation; and (d) the dwvindling dry season flows of some of the trans-boundary major rivers.
Nevertheless, the NWP contributed to the development of a comprehensive planning database, scientific
evaluation of water resources potential, planning strategies, a draft water code, and transformation of MPO
into a permanent Water Resources Planning Organization (WARPO) in March 1992.
1.15   The NWP proposals and the issues pertaining to the formulation of a viable, sustainable and
environmentally benign long-term water resources and agricultural development strategy were
overshadowed by flood control concerns following the major flood of September 1988. In 1989, a wide
range of solutions to Bangladesh's flood problem was proposed in a series of studies by GOB, assisted by
UNDP and France, and independently by Japan, China and the U.S.A. At one extreme, a French financed
study inter alia advocated the full embanking of the major rivers at a cost of about US$10 billion, while at
the other extreme the US study emphasized non-structural measures. A joint GOB-UNDP study took an
intermediate position, as did a Japanese-financed survey. Almost all studies, however, concluded that there
was inadequate knowledge on which to base major policy and investment choices. A Communique issued
by the G7 Summit of 1989 on the floods set the objective of coordinated international action as being 'to
2v     Wodd BankLandandWazerResourcesSectorStudy-Banglade*; Report No. PS-13, Asia Projeds Dept., Decambr 1,1972.
3/     World Bark,Reviewofthe Bangladesh WaterDevelopmenrBaard, World Bank Report No. 2327-BD, April 2, 1979.
4/     World Bar4ck,Bangladesh - Reviewoffhe Experience wrthPol/cyRefonprsin the 1980s; Report No. 8874, June 1990.



6
find solutions to this major problem which are technicalty, financially, economically and enironmnentally
sound. - At the request of GOB and the G7 Group of donors, the World Bank prepared the Flood Action
Plan (FAP) Study programr' in 1989 and has since served as the program's coordinator. This coordination
role includes the provision of assistance to GOB's Flood Plan Coordination Organization (FPCO) in
administering the activities of the FAP Panel of Experts. FAP's five-year program consists of: (a) studies
to formulate a portfolio of structural and non-structural investment projects to mitigate major flood
hazards; (b) studies to formnulate a river-bank erosion control program for the Brahmaputra and Meghna
Rivers; (c) various pilot projects to test innovative methods of flood and erosion control; and (d) various
supporting studies to investigate social, environmental and disaster management issues arising from
individual project proposals. The FAP has reviewed past FCD projects of the type proposed by NWP and
has drawn attention to major deficiencies in their preparation, design, construction, operation and
maintenance (O&M), and to adverse environmental effects (particularly on floodplain capture fisheries).
The efficacy of some past IDA-supported FCD projects as an appropriate response to the "flood, space and
food" problems of Bangladesh has also been questioned by OED.6' The draft final report of FAP,
"Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy" (March 1995), now recognizes that flood
management has to be seen within the context of year round water management and development, and that
many of the earlier technical solutions for flood control have significant problems. In consequence, GOB is
planning a more integrated approach to water and flood management with particular attention being paid to
enviromnental impacts, particularly fisheries, peoples' participation in project planning, implementation and
O&M, and institutional strengthening.
C. Brahmaputra River Bank Protection Needs
Consequences of Brahmanutra River Bank Erosion
1.16   Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) Breaches. Prior to the construction of the BRE,
overbank spill along the 220 km right bank of the Brahmaputra-Jamuna River caused periodic flooding of
an area of about 240,000 ha. The affected area stretched from the confluence with the Teesta River in the
north to the vicinity of the Ganges-Brahmaputra confluence (Map IBRD 25222). It was bounded in the
west by the parallel Ghagat-Karatoa-Bangali river network which drains a large portion of northwest
Bangladesh. In the early 1960s, the BRE was built to mitigate this problem and to foster agricultural
development in the thus protected area. The original BRE had a set-back distance of about 1.5 km from
the Brahmaputra's right bank and was expected to have a life of 25-30 years. In the 1970s, the
embankment started to come under sporadic erosion attack. During the mid-1980s, the frequency with
which the BRE was breached by erosion increased rapidly as longer sections came within the range of
rapidly eroding river bends (which can cause bank-line erosion rates of several hundred meters per year in
the early stages of bend formation). To prevent further flooding, these breaches were typically closed by
local BRE retirements of about 200 m. As a result of this minimal set-back distance, the BRE has been
retired several times in many places, and by 1991, only 70 kmn of the original BRE survived. Currently,
about 70 km of the BRE are within 500 m of the river-bank, while about 15 km are within 300 m. Hence,
the embankment may be breached at many locations over the next few years, requiring the further
retirement of some 70-90 km of embankment.
1.17   Population Displacement.  Bank erosion along the Brahmaputra-Jamuna has a significant
economic and social impact.  The loss of land, crops and property has led to landlessness and
Y'     World Bank,Flood Control in Bangladesh-A Plan ofAcno,r, World Barnk Technical Paper No. 119, May 1990.
World Bank., Bangladesh: Drainage andFlood Control Project (Cr. 864-BD); OED PPAR No. 8805, June 29, 1990.



7
impoverishment for thousands of households. The United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) sponsored Irrigation Support Project for Asia and the Near East (ISPAN) study showed that out
of the total population of 1.88 million living in the Brahmaputra floodplain, 450,000 live within the
banklines on riverine chars, the remainder within a kilometer of the river. Over the period 1980-92, land
capable of supporting 405,000 people was eroded and new charland created from the eroded sediment is
estimated to be able support only 55,000 people, a net displacement of 350,000 people. Detailed study of
population over the whole river shows that while many of those displaced mainlanders resettled locally
(mainly as squatters), there was a net emigration of 187,000 people. A River Erosion Impact Survey of the
Brahmnaputra right bank, undertaken by the University of Manitoba in the 1980s, shows that many
households have been displaced several times in a generation, and that they very often end up as squatters
in towns (over 30,000 in Sirajganj), and along the BRE itself. About one-third of displacees are "destitute"
people, and about 20%-25%  of the destitute group are female-headed households.  The largest
concentrations of BRE squatters are found on the retired sections of the BRE. They are made up of erosion
displacees, other landless people and inhabitants of the unprotected areas in the BRE's foreland (the area
between the BRE and the river channel). The consequent unauthorized bench-terracing of the embankment
for dwellings weakens the BRE and reduces its value as a flood control structure. Surveys indicate that the
BRE squatter population exceeds 100,000 people and attains densities of 800-900 persons per km of BRE
in some locations. Based on historic rates, an estimate of the future net erosion over the next 20 years is
34,100 ha. Allowing for continued increase in population density from the 1992 level of 926 people per
square kIn, it is estimated that about 578,000 people may be displaced by erosion, and 399,000 may be
forced to migrate from the area.
1.18   Potential Erosion Damages and Losses. The economic value of losses to the regional economy
from bank erosion along the west bank of the Brahmaputra river is considerable. Losses consist of eroded
productive agricultural and urban land, severe damage to property (houses, shops, public buildings) and
infrastructure (roads and bridges, power and telephone lines, and railway embankmnents). If present erosion
rates are sustained, there is a strong likelihood that about 11,700 ha would be eroded in the coming 30
years in the vicinity of Sirajganj town and near Sariakandi and Mathurapara. The potential losses of 1,500
ha of the built-up area of Sirajganj are of particular concern. The town is an important administrative and
trading center with a population of over 100,000. It has agro-industrial enterprises (textile, oil, sugar and
jute mills) and has a river ferry terminal for Bangladesh Railways and the Inland Water Transport
Authority. The town is protected from flooding by a section of the BRE which has been incorporated into
existing bank stabilization works. These works were constructed in the early 1970s when erosion first
threatened the town and consist of a 1.5 km concrete block revetment. When this revetment was threatened
by outflanking erosion in the 1980s, the Ranigram Groyne was constructed north of the town. Both
structures have performed well, but they are over 20 years old and were damaged by the severe floods of
1987 and 1988. They now need to be redesigned and reconstructed to the latest engineering standards to
prevent a larger than normal flood causing widespread failure of the existing works. Failure of these
protection works would result in one-third of the area at Sirajganj (500 ha) - including its commercial
district - being eroded within five years. As a direct consequence, the BRE would have to be realigned
behind the town leaving it exposed to major floods. Major erosion would also have dire consequences for
the stability of the river-bank south of the town and the viability of the Jamuna Bridge located about 5 km
downstream. Past efforts to stabilize the river at Sirajganj have resulted in the creation of a "hard-point"
whereby upstream and downstream erosion have formed the town area into a groyne-like protuberance into
the river which deflects erosive currents. The preservation of this "hard-point" is considered essential if
outflanking erosion of the westem abutment and guide bund of the Jamuna Bridge is to be prevented.



8
1.19   Flooding Damage from BRE Breaches. When the BRE is breached by erosion, observations
indicate that standing crops are lost over an area of 340400 ha in the vicinity of each breach, and soil
fertility is reduced for a period of about five years by sand deposits.  In addition, property and
infrastructure are severely damaged. Furthermore, water pouring through a breach inundates large areas
behind the BRE and adds substantially to the flow of the Karatoa-Bangali river systems (Map IBRD
25222). Thus, if a breach occurs in years of high rainfall and/or high flood levels in the Brahmaputra,
overbank spill of these tributary rivers is exacerbated and larger areas are inundated. Depending on when
the breach occurs, partial or total crop losses occur, while property and infrastructure are also damaged by
floodwaters. Simulation studies for the period 1986-1988 indicate that the incremental area flooded by
BRE breaches ranges from about 26 ha (at Betil in 1986) to about 38,300 ha (at Sariakandi and
Mathurapara in 1988).
1.20   Impact of Merger with the Bangali River. As a result of erosion, the Bangali and Brahmaputra
rivers are presently separated by a strip of land only about 1 km wide at Sariakandi. Without protection,
ongoing erosion is expected to result in the loss of Sariakandi town (population 15,000) within five years,
and the narrow strip of land separating the Bangali River from the Brahmaputra River will be completely
eroded. At present, some protection to Sariakandi is provided by the Kalitola Groyne which was designed
to protect against the flood flow of what was a small side channel of the Brahmaputra-Jamuna. However,
with the movement of the main river westwards, the Kalitola Groyne is now in an advanced state of
structural deterioration due to adjacent bank erosion. Further retirement of the BRE is not possible
because of the proximity of the Bangali River. Consequently, after the breach, permanent flooding would
occur until the strip is completely eroded and a merger of the Bangali and Brahmaputra riverstakes place.
A merger of the two rivers would create an estimated 500-600 m wide opening about 4-5 m deep in the
Brahmaputra's right (west) bank. The elevation of this opening would probably be below the low average
water level of the Brahmaputra and would therefore result in perennial flow from the Brahmaputra into the
Bangali River. This outflow would permanently augment the Bangali River's discharge and increase its
flood potential (Map IBRD 27506). In all but average years, this would result in greater depths of
inundation and larger areas flooded by the Bangali River downstream. Simulation studies of the results of
such a merger, as compared to a BRE breach scenario at Sariakandi under conditions prevailing during the
1988 flood, indicate that (a) the incremental area flooded would be 71,100 ha instead of 27,000 ha;
(b) flood depths would increase by about 1.0 m and last longer in the areas normally flooded by the
Karatoa-Bangali river system behind the BRE; and (c) the road leading to Sirajganj would be under about I
m of water for about two weeks. Not only would crop and other damage be caused in the incremental areas
flooded, but damages in the Bangali River floodplain itself would also be exacerbated. Losses due to
disruption of traffic as a result of road inundation and damage would also be increased. A larger and
deeper inundated area would also have severe consequences on the road network leading to the Jamuna
Bridge if such flooding occurred after its completion.
1.21   The hydrological simulation model describes a very optimistic scenario: it does not allow for the
natural deepening and widening of the Bangali channel that would take place due to the erosion caused by
the greater discharges. This greater capacity would enable an increase in the maximum outflow from the
Brahmaputra and consequently larger incremental areas would be flooded in the Karatoa-Bangali
floodplain for any given hydrological condition. Larger discharges would cause greater meandering of the
Bangali River and a wider meander belt. This, in turn, would result in additional severe erosion of riparian
land and further permanent crop, property and infrastructure losses. The above consequences of a merger
of the Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers due to erosion at Sariakandi are particularly severe: they could
result in economic retrogression of the area behind the BRE to conditions that existed in the 1950s, or
worse. The approach roads to the proposed Jamuna Bridge could also be frequently flooded and suffer



9
damage. There are two alternative interventions which could prevent this damage. One alternative would
be to prevent the erosion of the remaining strip of land betwveen the two rivers by construction of
appropriate structures to protect the Brahmaputra's right bank from further major erosion. The other
altemative would be to allow erosion to continue, but prevent the imminent merger by diverting the Bangali
River to flow several km westward of its present alignment. Preliminary analysis indicates that this second
option would require excavation of a 23-25 km long channel costing at least US$75.0 million along a
meandering alignment. This channel would require acquisition of about 900-1,000 ha with all the
implementation difficulties and resettlement impact that land acquisition on this scale would entail.
Continuous bank erosion and meandering of this channel are to be expected, causing further economic
losses and social disruption.  For these reasons, the project would implement the bank protection
alternative.
D. Ban2ladesh Water Development Board
Bangladesh Water Development Board
1.22   BWDB was established in 1972, when the former East Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority (EPWAPDA) was reorganized into two separate agencies -- the BWDB and the Power
Development Board (PDB). Under the supervision of the Ministry of Water Resources (MoWR), BWDB's
mandate is to plan, construct, operate and maintain projects for surface water irrigation, flood control, and
drainage, including town protection and river training, throughout the country. It is also responsible for
operating and maintaining about 500 completed projects ranging in size from small single-structure
schemes to large multipurpose flood control, drainage, and irrigation projects. Its main sources of funding
are: (a) GOB's Development Budget for the construction of new projects and rehabilitation of a large
number of existing schemes; (b) the Revenue Budget for O&M of completed projects (including an
allocation for debt service, taxes and arrears); and (c) the Food for Work Programme (FWP) with an
allocation of wheat utilized for the repair and maintenance of existing projects, and for the construction of
new schemes. Since 1972 IDA has supported BWDB's program with 15 credits, totaling about US$440
million for  1I new projects and four flood rehabilitation operations.
1.23   BWDB is managed by a six member Board comprising a Chairman, and five Members for
Planning, Implementation, Operation and Maintenance, Administration, and Finance, respectively. The
headquarters organization is primarily responsible for administration, finance, planning and design while
construction and O&M are the responsibility of the field organization. BWDB has about 16,300 staff, of
whom about 1,500 are Class I managers, engineers, and administrators, and about 14,800 are Class II, III
and IV middle and lower level technical and support staff. About one third of BWDB employees are
assigned to O&M. However, these staff have also been responsible for construction and rehabilitation of
small projects. BWDB suffers from a number of basic problems, some of which are common to most GOB
agencies and are only partly within BWDB's control. These problems include: (a) weak management and
poor planning capabilities; (b) inadequate incentives and career planning for staff to perform well;
(c) strong union pressures against rationalization of staffing to needs; (d) slow  and complicated
administrative approval procedures; (e) inadequate budgets and slow  land acquisition procedures;
(f) almost no cost sharing with project beneficiaries; (g) poor cost recovery; (h) inadequate community
participation; and (i) lengthy procurement procedures especially for aided projects. These problems are
reflected in BWDB's performance, both in planning and construction of new projects, and O&M of existing
schemes.



10
1.24   Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR), prepared for five completed IDA-financed BWDB
projects", indicate that three have been successful, that one project (the Barisal Irrigation Project) has not
reached its full potential, and one (Drainage and Flood Control I) is questionable. For the Drainage
Project, the PPAR indicate that the assumption that incremental dry season production would not have
taken place in the absence of the flood control embankment "has not yet been substantiated with
appropriate impact studies." However, the PPAR also noted that the largest of the project's investments
included significant non-quantifiable benefits from protecting population from periodic flooding. All the
completed projects experienced serious construction delays. On average, it took about eight years to
complete the schemes instead of five years as originally planned. Projects currently under construction and
those more recently completed experienced similar delays, most of which occur at the pre-construction
stage. There have been significant delays due to time-consuming administrative procedures for appointing
consultants to prepare feasibility studies and designs. Procedures for acquiring land for construction have
been long and complicated and actual acquisition of land often has been delayed because of shortage of
local funds. Delays have occurred during the construction stage, due to procurement problems, insufficient
budget allocations, or delays in release of funds.  Poor quality of construction, due to inadequate
supervision of works by BWDB staff and use of inexperienced local contractors, was a major problem in
the past.  In recent years, BWDB  has employed local consultants on several projects to monitor
construction works and help maintain quality standards. Quality of works has improved but there is still
room for significant further improvement. There has also been improvement in the funding allocations for
the IDA-assisted BWDB projects, which have benefited from dialogue in connection with the Public
Resource Management Adjustment Credit (Cr. 236 1-BD).
1.25   Potential benefits of past investments in BWDB's projects have not been fully realized due to
weaknesses in O&M resulting in deterioration of the systems. The underlying reasons for these weaknesses
include: (a) inadequate budget allocations; (b) inefficient use of available funds; (c) deficiencies in BWDB's
organizational arrangements, procedures and staff capabilities for O&M; and (d) insufficient participation
of stakeholders. Actions to resolve these issues have been agreed under the BWDB Systems Rehabilitation
Project (SRP) (Cr. 2099-BD).  Of particular importance are agreements for increasing budgetary
allocations for O&M, improvements in BWDB's organization for O&M, training programs for BWDB
staff and beneficiaries, and measures to increase beneficiary participation in financing irrigation O&M
activities. While there have been some notable improvements (expenditures on O&M doubled from FY89
to FY94) progress on institutional issues has been less than expected. However recent steps, such as the
approval in August 1994 of Guidelines for Peoples' Participation in Water Development Projects, the
assignment of staff to implement these Guidelines, and the development of a training program for such
staff, appear to indicate renewed commitment to addressing the key issues in this field.
1.26   Organization and Management. Studies to reform BWDB's organization and management to
improve execution of its functional mandate began in 1978/79 with the joint GOB-IDA review cited in para
1.13. This was followed by a 1981/82 study on "Strengthening the Organizational and Implementation
Aspects of the BWDB", carried out by two BWDB task forces advised by Harza Engineering Company
International. Again in June 1987, the Bank as Executing Agency for UNDP (under Project BGD/85/029)
engaged the services of Sycip, Gorres, Velayo and Co., an international accounting firm to: (a) reassess the
role of BWDB as a development agency for the water sector; (b) evaluate the capacity of BWDB for
executing its responsibilities effectively; and (c) recommend improvements in BWDB's capabilities in
(a)    Chandpur Irrigation Projecl, Cr. 340-BD, PPAR Report No. 3436, dated April 30, 1981.
(b)    Kamafuli Irrigation Project, Cr. 605-BD, and Barisal Inigation Project, Cr. 542-BD, PPAR Report No. 6521, dated November 21,1986.
(c)    Muhuri Irrigation Project, Cr. 725-BD, PPAR Report No. 8654, dated May 16,1990.
(d)    Drainage and Flood Control Project, Cr. 864-BD, PPAR Report No. 8805, dated June 29, 1990.



11
planning and design, construction and O&M. This study was financed under the Third Flood Control and
Drainage Project (Cr. 1591-BD). The study's recommendations are currently under implementation. IDA,
however, believes that the changes being made will not precipitate a major improvement in BWDB's
performance without basic reform of its corporate management framework. IDA maintains a dialogue with
GOB about the need for such reforms in the supervision of ongoing projects and project preparation. It
will also seek to identify effective reforms in a forthcoming sector review which would concentrate on
institutional issues.
1.27   Since mid-1994, substantial progress has been made on long-standing institutional issues affecting
BWDB. Permanent members have been appointed to BWDB's Board (previously staffed largely through
"acting" assignments) and the Board's original mandate and authority as an autonomous body have been
restored. Acting upon this renewed authority, the Board filled all vacant Chief Engineer positions and
delegated increased authority to lower levels of BWDB staff, to permit project managers to expedite project
procurement and expenditure decisions. A new accounting system, designed to make BWDB's financial
transactions more transparent, has now been introduced. (The new accounting system had been designed in
1990 by consultants financed by the Canadian Intemational Development Agency (CIDA) as part of co-
financing the Second Small-Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD). Although
implementation of the new system had been resisted by BWDB until mid-1994, in October 1994 BWDB
applied for approval from the Planning Commission to seek technical assistance from CIDA to implement
the accounting reforn program). As noted above, Guidelines for Peoples' Participation have been approved
and are being implemented. Finally, BWDB established five task forces on institutional reform, whose
recommendations provided the basis for reaching agreement with IDA in September 1994 on a short-term
BW.DB reform program. This program concentrated on what could be accomplished over the following
year, without altering the current allocation of responsibilities betveen BWDB and other institutions. The
reform program included measures affecting all aspects of BWDB activities, including implementation,
O&M, accounting, planning, and administration. Key measures, beyond those indicated above, include a
phased program to separate staff and responsibilities for O&M and construction, so as to provide
appropriate concentration on O&M, reforms in personnel planning, evaluation, and promotion policies, and
introduction of multi-disciplinary project planning teams. Progress to date in implementation of the reform
program is substantially on schedule.
1.28   The reform program concentrates mainly on BWDB and leaves issues involving other institutions
in the water sector for further analysis. However, the program includes agreement to undertake studies on
such issues, including appropriate institutional arrangements for sector analysis, project evaluation and
project planning, and mechanisms for decentralization of responsibility and increasing peoples'
participation in project formulation and O&M. The FAP report's institutional recommendations include a
merger of the temporary organization established for FAP with WARPO, an existing, but weak, sectoral
planning organization (para. 1.14). Under this project, IDA would finance technical assistance to improve
sectoral planning capacity and to carry-out the medium-term studies referred to above (see para 2.27).
1.29   Although all necessary institutional reforms to BWDB and the water sector are not yet underway,
the urgency for the proposed river-bank protection work makes it appropriate to proceed with this project
now. Therefore, the proposed project has been designed to deal with the most immediate of the remaining
problems described above, inter alia, through requiring the use of experienced, internationally recruited
consultants for supervision of works, using prequalified contractors selected through ICB procedures for
the civil works, and establishment of a specialized O&M unit designed to improve maintenance of project
works.



12
E. IDA's Country and Sector Assistance StrateLv
Country Assistance Straterv
1.30   IDA's current Country Assistance Strategy (a revised CAS is scheduled to be discussed shortly
before this operation) is based on achieving the twin goals of: (i) poverty alleviation and creation of a
social safetv net; and (ii) growvth in agricultural production and incomes, export-oriented manufacturing,
and complementary investments in infrastructure and human resources development. These goals are to be
achieved by supporting policies and projects to, inter alia, promote: efficient public investment and aid
utilization, improved public administration, more efficient public enterprises in all sectors, private sector
development, and investments in mitigating environmental degradation, loss of natural resources and
natural hazards. IDA's portfolio management strategy includes emphasis on improvements in financial
management in the water and power sectors. The proposed project is an application of GOB's conservation
and hazard mitigation strategy and is included in its Five Year Development Program for the land and
water sector.  It would assist, inter alia, in meeting the poverty alleviation and agricultural growth
objectives through averting imminent disastrous flooding. Funds for its implementation have been allocated
under GOB's current Three Year Priority Investment Program. IDA has also been working closely with the
aid communitv to encourage consistency of approach and to avoid duplication of effort.
1.31   Consistent with GOB's priorities, increased food production, especially rice, has been the main
target of IDA's lending in agriculture with emphasis given to minor irrigation development and flood
control and drainage. IDA is also assisting in the exploitation of the yet unexploited potential that
Bangladesh has in the fisheries sub-sector.  Given that fuel shortage and population pressure are
encouraging encroachment on forests, IDA is also playing an important role in preserving forests through
its lending program, e.g., financing agro-forestry activities. In addition, IDA is financing support services
(e.g., research and extension) and technical assistance (e.g., in flood control). Ongoing IDA-supported
agricultural projects include: Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation II (Cr. 1870-BD),
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation (Cr. 2099-BD), Third Fisheries (Cr. 2146-BD), Agricultural Support
Services (Cr. 2233-BD), National Minor Irrigation Development (Cr. 2246-BD), and Forest Resources
Management (Cr. 2397-BD). A major theme in Bangladesh's agenda for encouraging sector development
is expansion of private sector services to enhance efficiency. IDA has used its lending program to promote
policy reforms in this direction. For example, in close collaboration with the Asian Development Bank,
IDA assisted GOB in 1991 to develop a list of investments and input requirements linked to an action
program for policy and institutional reformns. IDA supported this package through three projects: Shallow
Tubewells and Low Lift Pumps (Cr. 2253-BD, now closed), National Minor Irrigation Development, and
Agricultural Support Services. IDA has also been coordinating an international effort aimed at formulating
a plan to improve Bangladesh's ability to deal with flood hazards. As described in paragraph 1.15 above,
this included coordinating the work of a panel of experts assigned to oversee the implementation of the FAP
studies and pilot projects. As this work draws to a close at the end of 1995, this project includes assistance
to GOB (see paras. 2.27 -2.29) in developing permanent institutions for improved water sector planning,
preserving the technical capability developed under FAP and making multi-disciplinary planning part of
Bangladesh's normal water sector planning procedures.
IDA's Involvement in River Bank Protection
1.32   In the aftermath of the 1984 and 1987 floods, the construction of revetments and groynes along the
Brahmaputra right bank for protection of the BRE was supported under the First and Second Flood
Rehabilitation Projects (Cr. 1587-BD and Cr. 1876-BD). BRE rehabilitation and local retirements were
undertaken under the First Drainage and Flood Control Project (Cr. 864-BD) and the Third Flood



13
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2048-BD). Efforts to contain river-bank erosion at Chandpur and Rajashahi
towns were supported under Cr. 2048-BD. Erosion mitigation works carried out under flood rehabilitation
credits were undertaken on a merit and cost-effectiveness basis without requiring full economic
justification. Bank protection structures funded by the above Credits have been found to be short-lived and
unsustainable due to inadequate design and construction supervision, and deployment of inexperienced
local contractors using inappropriate construction equipment. These contractors were not able to meet
design specifications for construction in the deep waters of the major rivers, nor could they be depended
upon to complete works within the dry season when water velocities and depths are at their lowest.
IDA's Involvement for Water Sector Planniny
1.33   IDA has executed two national water planning projects funded by UNDP, and coordinated the FAP
(see paras. 1.14 and 1. 15). Following review of the draft FAP report and earlier agreement to address the
institutional weaknesses of the BWDB, it has been agreed that future water sector projects have to be
formulated from a national perspective which is fully sensitive to environmental, social and stakeholders
concerns and be seen to compete for scarce funds with alternative development proposals in other sectors.
Overall guidance for this revitalized national water planing effort in Bangladesh will be provided by the
Bank's planned Land and Water Development Strategy sector study. This will focus on the broader policy
and institutional issues of sustainable land wvater and agricultural development, impacts of increased
urbanization of rural areas, and natural disaster prevention and mitigation. It will analyze existing policies
for water and land resources development and management, review future policy options in the light of
trends and likely scenarios, and recommend guiding objectives and priorities for a comprehensive land and
watcr resources development and management policy. This work will complement the TA proposed to be
funded under the River Bank Protection Project to strengthen WARPO and transform it into a reformed
multi-disciplinary water sector planning institution to preserve the institutional capacity and technical
capability developed under FAP, and to move water sector planning beyond the formner project-by project
approach.
2. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Concepts
Project Identification and Preparation
2.1    River Training Studies of the Brahmaputra River (BRTS), funded under the Second Small Scale
Flood Control, Drainage Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD), focused on identifying appropriate and durable
ways of protecting high priority sites from river-bank erosion. The BRTS were begun in March 1990 and
consisted of two components: (a) formulation of a long-term strategy and master plan for protection of the
BRE (including bank protection, river training and BRE retirement options); and (b) preparation of designs
and contract documents for inimediate implementation of protection works at priority sites along the
Brahmaputra right bank where the impact of erosion damage is particularly severe. OED's June 1990
PPAR of Cr. 864-BD reviews the BRE breaching problem and criticizes the ad hoc and emergency nature
of breach repair by local retirements and their inadequate set-back distance from the eroding bank line. In
particular, the PPAR noted that for the BRE, a "planned strategy of carefully orchestrated retreat" is
needed. The BRE protection master plan prepared by the BRTS embodied this concept and recommnended
planned realignment, and the phased construction of over 20 revetment structures at strategic locations
along the Brahmaputra's right bank in order to limit the westward migration of the river. In contrast to
previous piecemeal efforts, the studies for priority sites included geomorphological investigations, physical
model testing of prototype designs and advanced engineering analysis (including the use of state-of-the-art



14
model testing of prototype designs and advanced engineering analysis (including the use of state-of-the-art
mathematical models). Final site selection and design were based on defined design criteria (Annex 1) and
economic justification, followed by environmental assessment, and the formulation of environmental and
resettlement management plans for the selected sites. Separate reports on construction management and an
O&M program were also prepared. Although the BRTS study program was formulated prior to the advent
of FAP, the studies were modified and incorporated into FAP as part of FAP's bank protection and river
training program. This program includes a bilateral donor-supported pilot project (component FAP 21/22)
to construct prototype designs for general protection of the Brahmaputra River bankline in rural areas.
These pilot works are not intended to provide long-term protection but are test structures whose
performnance and failure characteristics can be studied in a short time. It is believed that the resulting
evaluation may contribute to improved design of low-cost durable protection works. However, because of
the imminent threat of major erosion damage and the possibility of merger of the Bangali and Brahmaputra-
Jamuna rivers, GOB designated the early implementation of protection works at Sariakandi/Mathurapara
and Sirajganj as national priorities.
Obiectives
2.2    The project's principal objective is to prevent the erosion of riparian land at two locations on the
west bank of the Brahmaputra by the construction and maintenance of improved river-bank protection
works which would: (a) protect Sirajganj town's built-up and semi-urban areas from major damage and
cumulative destruction; and (b) prevent the merger of the Brahmaputra and Bangali Rivers in the vicinity of
Sariakandi and consequential increased regional flooding. A further objective is to assist GOB in
developing permanent institutions for improved water sector planning, preserving the institutional capacity
developed under FAP and making multi-disciplinary planning part of Bangladesh's normal water sector
planning processes. A small component would assist BWDB's efforts to improve its accounting and
management information systems.
Concepts
2.3    Use of Revetment Structures. Preparatory studies concentrated on the design of a cost-effective
bank stabilization structure for the Brahmaputra River that would be capable of withstanding a wide range
of extreme hydraulic and erosive forces, and that would have a likely economic life of 25-30 years under an
appropriate maintenance program for costly hydraulic works on major rivers. These design considerations
led to the selection of single revetment structures ("hard-points") for the protection of the river-bank instead
of a set of conventional groynes at Sirajganj and Mathrapara. Details of alternative designs considered and
factors leading to the proposed design are given in Annex 1. Revetments are a passive form of intervention
that use protective material (armnor) to stabilize a river's eroding bank which limits bank erosion to that
which would occur in nature if the river encountered naturally resistant material in its bank. The designed
revetment consists of a layer of geotextile filter fabric with an overlay of concrete blocks or rock of
sufficient weight to resist the tractive forces of flow velocity and waves. The more active intervention of
building a major complex of groynes, which deflect attacking currents from a vulnerable bank, does not
work as well in the morphological context of large braided rivers like the Brahmaputra. However, existing
groynes at project sites would be rehabilitated and utilized to ensure that they do not fail and thus change
present current patterns or introduce major uncertainties into the planned performance of the proposed
revetments.
2.4    Selection of Armor Material. The armor material for the revetments would be concrete blocks
constructed from brick or gravel aggregate; quarried rock may also be used especially for revetment below



15
average low water levels. However, because of the large quantity of gravel and rock required, the materials
would most likely have to be imported. Because creating a need for imported rock would provide bidders
with an undesirably strong base for price negotiation, bidders will be required to price alternative Bills of
Quantities based on quarried rock, brick aggregate concrete blocks, and stone aggregate concrete blocks.
This procurement arrangement also allows bidders to take advantage of any particular competitive edge
that they may have stemming from their access to specialized plant and materials. Although only one
alternative will be selected after bid evaluation, the other two options will offer a useful basis for a
variation should circumstances change and the first selection prove untenable. The use of brick aggregate,
besides utilizing local materials, is expected to result in lower overall cost; however, the effect of the
relatively high brick demand on local brick market prices will not be known until bids are evaluated. The
use of brick aggregate will be subject to strict environmental impact mitigation controls that have been
included in the specifications of the bidding documents for the bank protection works (para. 2.31).
2.5    Management and Training. The project would introduce a number of managerial and training
concepts as a result of the lessons learned during IDA's past involvement in the subsector. These include:
(a) implementation by competent international contractors capable of timely and efficient deployment of
specialized construction equipment for undenvater revetment construction; (b) establishment, equipping
and training of a specialized O&M Unit in BWDB to monitor structure performance and provide timely
maintenance; and (c) assistance with O&M funding during the critical early years after the works are
completed. The implementation of the proposed works would require careful quality assurance, and early
identification of circumstances which could result in financial claims by contractors. Accordingly, in view
of BWDB's limited experience with ICB contracts and the proposed construction technology, construction
contract management and engineering supervision would be undertaken by experienced international
consultants on behalf of BWDB. These consultants would be vested with the full powers and duties of
"The Engineer" as specified in IDA's Standard Bidding Documents for major civil works. Technology
transfer to BWDB personnel would be provided by secondment of selected BWDB engineers and
technicians to the consultant's construction supervision team. Technical assistance would be provided to
train the proposed O&M Unit's staff in maintenance technology and management.
B. Rationale for IDA's Involvement
2.6   IDA's involvement in the proposed project stems from its past support of the flood control
objectives of the BRE and protection of towns and infrastructure from erosion damage, and from its 1991
Bangladesh Environment Strategy which endorsed river-bank erosion control projects. IDA has played a
leading role in supporting recent comprehensive design studies which have developed improved technology
suited to river-bank erosion control for the Brahmaputra River. The scale of the economic damage and
social disruption that would result from not undertaking adequate protection works prompted GOB to
adopt a policy of seeking interventions to mitigate the adverse impacts of erosion of the Brahmnaputra
River's west bank, and seek IDA support to undertake emergency preventive measures where erosion could
have widespread regional consequences. The priority nature of the project thus justifies IDA assistance for
its early implementation even though the overall FAP investment program has not yet been finalized. IDA's
involvement also continues efforts initiated under FAP to improve water sector planning and promotes
reaching a consensus on equitable land acquisition procedures for donor-supported public works projects.



16
C. Proiect Components
2.7    The project would have the following components:
(a)    Rehabilitation and construction of river-bank protection works at two sites on the
Brahmaputra River's west bank, including retirement and realignment of about 8 km of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) to link the river-bank protection works at
Sariakandi and Mathurapara;
(b)    Land acquisition and a program of resettlement for people displaced by project
works;
(c)    Technical assistance for implementation supervision and maintenance of works
constructed under the project;
(d)    Establishment and initial funding of a specialized O&M  Unit in BWDB to
maintain the riverbank protection works constructed under the project, and procurement of
vehicles and equipment for the O&M Unit;
(e)    Institution building technical assistance to WARPO to integrate the FAP within
the framework of national water planning, produce a national water management plan and
a portfolio of investment projects for the medium and long-term, and upgrade integrated
water sector planning capability; and
(f)    Institutional capacity building technical assistance to BWDB to improve the
operation of the new regional accounting centers (which includes training), and provision
of equipment and transport to improve project supervision capability in the field and
internal communications.
The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period starting in early CY 1996.
D. Project Area
2.8    The river-bank sites to be protected are located at Sirajganj and Sariakandi/Mathurapara on the
west bank of the Brahmaputra River at latitude 2428' North and between latitudes 2450' and 2655'
North, respectively (Map IBRD 25221). The improved project management system for BWDB applies to
all its divisions countrywide. Technical assistance to WARPO will be primarily for its Dhaka headquarters
with some assistance to its Regional Environmental Management Centers.
E. Detailed Features
River Bank Protection Works (Base Cost US$109.7 million)
2.9    Sariakandi/Mathurapara (Base Cost US$49.6million). The major civil works for this sub-
project would include: (a) upgrading the existing Kalitola Groyne; (b) constructing two bank revetments



17
about 2.5 and 5.0 km downstream of Kalitola Groyne at Sariakandi and Mathurapara; and (c) constructing
short earthen cross-bar embankments linking the revetments to the BRE (Annex I Figures 1 and 2).
Kalitola Groyne would be rehabilitated and upgraded to serve as the upstream anchor for the stabilized
reach and to provide Sariakandi town with reliable protection from erosion. In particular, the nose and
shank of the existing groyne would be strengthened with appropriate armoring materials.  The two
revetments will consist of a straight section constructed along the existing bank line, while their upstream
and downstream ends will be turned landward (into the river-bank) to prevent the revetment from being
outflanked in the event of continuing erosion. The straight sections of the revetments at Sariakandi and
Mathurapara will be 300 m and 500 m long, respectively. The revetment armoring will consist of concrete
blocks (or rock) laid on a fascine mattress incorporating an appropriate geotextile filter. The revetment
structure includes a falling apron in the form of a layer of blocks/rocks to protect its toe from scour after
construction. The cross-bar embankments are to prevent overbank flow (during floods) from passing
between the revetment and the BRE, and hence protect the revetments from outflanking erosion. The
upstream face of the cross-bars would be protected against waves and low velocity currents by armoring
with brick-filled wire baskets laid on geotextile cloth.
2.10   In order to reduce costs while achieving functional objectives, the three-structure complex of a
groyne and two short revetments is not designed to prevent all further erosion along the 15-20 km bank line
being protected. The spacing of the structures has been chosen after studying previous erosion patterns and
embayment formation along the Brahmaputra's right bank. The selected spacing of the revetments would
be adequate to ensure that the formation of subsequent embayments would not reach the Bangali River's
channel. The length and termination configuration of each revetment was selected after consideration of the
worst embayment platform that might occur and which could outflank a revetment based on bridge guide
bund design methods. As erosion is still occurring, the exact spacings and configurations are to be
finalized immediately after the monsoon season prior to revetment construction. Because of the high
likelihood of the Brahmaputra breaking through to join the Bangali, the revetments are to be completed
within one construction season (about 6-7 months) after the contractor's mobilization, and a stockpile of
armoring materials has been assembled. This preparatory period (allowing for resettlement) is expected to
last 18-24 months, so a 30-month contract period is needed.
2.11   Sirajganj (Base Cost US$53.7 million). This sub-project's major civil works would include
reconstruction of the town's existing revetment, and rehabilitation and extension of the Ranigram Groyne.
This involves: (a) salvaging all reusable concrete blocks of adequate size; (b) building up the river-bank
profile to a geotechnically stable slope; (c) placing a modem geotextile filter protected by an armor layer of
concrete blocks and/or rocks; and (d) underwater placing of the revetment toe and falling apron such that it
provides protection against severe bed scour. Due to the poor structural condition of Ranigram Groyne,
and to attain a least-cost design, the present 1.5 km revetment would be extended about 700 m upstream to
connect with the groyne, and a new groyne nose would be constructed to serve as the upstream termination
(see Annex 1, Figure 4). The extension would strengthen the bank line and enclose an embayment of about
25 ha. This area would be reclaimed from the river by hydraulic landfill and built up to the local bank
elevation. The purpose of the landfill is to provide a backing to Ranigram Groyne and a safeguard against
possible failure. It would also provide land for resettlement and serve a variety of public and private needs.
The revetment design includes a concrete crest retaining wall and crest access road with a bitumen
macadam  surface for vehicular traffic.  Country boat and ferry mooring facilities have also been
incorporated.
2.12   In contrast to the emergency nature of the works at Sariakandi/Mathurapara, the construction of
the Sirajganj revetment is to be carried out over two construction seasons. The contract period would be



18
about 30 months and is scheduled to begin in January 1996. The dry season of 1996/97 will be devoted to
the salvage of usable blocks from the existing revetment, its re-construction and the completion of land
reclamation. The first 18 months would be taken up by the build-up of a stockpile of armor materials
(blocks and/or rocks). The November 1996-May 1997 construction seasons would be utilized for
rehabilitation of Ranigram Groyne, construction of 900 m of revetment linking the groyne to the existing
revetment and initial reclamation of the 25 ha landfill area behind this new revetment. The remaining
revetment works would be completed in the 1997-98 dry season. Temporary works are planned to prevent
damage to the first phase of the new revetment during the 1997 monsoon season.
2.13   Minor Civil Works (Base Cost US$1.4 million).  Concurrent with the construction of the
protection works at Sariakandi and Mathurapara, it will be necessary to undertake a proactive 8 km long
retirement of the BRE (Annex 1, Figure 1). This is needed since erosion of the area between the new
revetments will not be prevented but only contained, and it is expected that the recently retired section of
the BRE located close to the eroding river-bank will be breached within the next two or three years. The
retired embankment would be constructed by a competent local contractor using predominantly labor-
intensive methods. Mechanical compaction will be required however, to achieve an acceptable structural
integrity. The embankment's cross-section would be wide enough to retain a 2 m depth of standing water
for several weeks. Further details of the design of the BRE retirement component are given in Annex 2.
2.14   BWDB Project Management (Base Cost US$3.5 million). Project costs include provision for
BWDB engineering and administrative costs directly related to the implementation of the major and minor
civil works, and the provision of transport to assist project supervision in the field This provision is
estimated at 3.2% of the costs of major works (where most of the supervision workload would be handled
by consultants) and 15% of the cost of minor works.
2.15   Land Acquisition (Base Cost US$0.8 million). Land acquisition would be limited to the areas
occupied by the various permanent works and will not exceed 96 ha. Borrow areas will be leased for the
duration of the construction period and thereafter revert to their owners. Costs of agricultural land range
from Tkl60,000/ha at Sariakandi to Tk 187,000/ha for the BRE retirement and Mathurapara. Homestead
land ranges from Tk 23 1,000/ha for village locations to Tk 457,000/ha for urban sites in Sariakandi.
Necessary land acquisition will total about 59 ha in the vicinity of Sariakandi and Mathurapara, consisting
of about 10 ha of riparian land, and about 49 ha of agricultural land. In addition, 1.2 ha of homestead land
will need to be acquired. The 8 km BRE retirement (para. 2.13) will require about 27 ha of agricultural
land and 1.5 ha of homestead area. At Sirajganj, the land required for reconstruction of the existing
revetment is already owned by BWDB. No land acquisition is expected to be required for the 25 ha of land
reclaimed along the shoreline and from the river bed. As this area will be raised to ground level and be of
appreciable value as urban land, bona fide title holders are expected not to object to reclamation works.
Nevertheless, a contingency provision for 8 ha of land acquisition has been provided, and 15 ha may be
leased for temporary works.
2.16   BWDB will be responsible for providing all contractors with possession of the various construction
sites according to the timing and provisions in the various bid documents. Therefore, BWDB must have
legal possession of each site prior to issuing notices to contractors to commence work, and be in a position
to assure contractors of unimpeded access to and movement within a site for construction purposes. The
nature of the works is such that river access is practical, and it is BWDB's responsibility to ensure that the
statutory standards of navigation are available to contractors and that the issue of permits is facilitated.
Failure by BWDB to give unimpeded possession of a site as per contract will provide a legitimate basis for
contractors to claim an extension of time for completion of the works.  Apart from the financial



19
ramifications, this would have far-reaching consequences with regard to the actual completion date in view
of the short season (about 4-5 months) when water-borne equipment for underwater revetment construction
can be operated. Land acquisition has been a major obstacle to the timely implementation of previous
BWDB projects, but recently there has been an improvement in that the full budgetary allocation for land
acquisition has been released in the first quarter of each fiscal year. It was agreed during negotiations that
land and rights to land for proiect purposes would be acquired in accordance with procedures and time
schedules satisfactory to IDA and that adequate compensation for acquired land would be paid promptly in
accordance with a GOB approved resettlement action plan satisfactory to IDA. These procedures specify
that: (a) for all contracts awarded following ICB procedures, a Commencement Notice would only be
issued if adequate working areas for preparatory operations are available at each revetment site; (b) land
required for contracts awarded under NCB procedures would be taken over by BWDB before November
30 of each year; and (c) the full budgetary allocation for land acquisition would be released before
September 30 of each project year.
2.17   Resettlement (Base Cost US$0.7 million). The approved Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was
prepared in October 1992 and updated based on a March 1995 resurvey. The socio-economic survey
included BRE squatters affected by the Sirajganj sub-project and those likely to be affected by land
acquisition for the Sariakandi/Mathurapara revetment works upstream. The total land area needed for the
project is about 96 ha of which 24 percent is under housing. The total number of people requiring
relocation of their homes is 1828 in 370 households. Agricultural land, but not housing, will be lost by a
further 92 households, a graveyard and brick factory may have to be moved, and 122 small shops and
businesses will have to be relocated. During the life of the project, it is expected that a part of the existing
BRE within the protected reach on which many sqatters live will be devoured by erosion. However, the
enforced resettlement of squatters for these eroded embankments is not a result of project activities. A
matrix of 15 compensation entitlements for both landoNvners and non-titled Project Affected People (PAPs)
has been completed in consultation Nvith IDA as the basis for project compensation to PAPs (Annex 3).
Provision is made in the RAP for dissemination of information in Bengali about the project to members of
the public, as well as for a local project information center. A preliminary survey of PAPs affected by the
7.8 km BRE retirement near Sariakandi/Mathurapara shows that about 28 ha of land will be needed and
this may displace approximately 250 PAPs in 50 households. BWDB has agreed in the RAP to investigate
and promptly settle outstanding issues related to land owvnership and alleged non-payment of compensation
for earlier BWDB land acquisition at Sirajganj. For the minor works a detailed survey has not yet been
completed since the precise location has not been fully determined. A Resettlement Grievance Committee
will be established under the project to bring transparency to land acquisition and resettlement procedures
and payments and provide impartial resolution of problems. Resettlement plans for the two major works
sub-proiects and an outline plan and framework for compensation provisions for the minor works were
agreed at negotiations. The resettlement plans which have been approved by GOB include provision of
assistance in their implementation by consultants and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) acceptable
to IDA under terrns and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
2.18   At Sirajganj the river-bank protection works will affect 159 households, 116 shops and businesses
along the embankment, 25 market gardens totaling about 0.11 ha of public lands and a small graveyard.
Relocation of 140 squatter households (693 people) and all the shops and businesses (which provide
employment for 251 people, many of them PAPs) will be required. A redesign of the project works
following the 1992 survey reduced the number of project-affected households by 35, but despite this, the
total number of households affected has increased from 112 in 1992 to 140 in 1995 due to immigration. A
social survey of the PAPs showed they are generally people who have become marginalized or lost their
land and assets through river-bank erosion. The embankment has been colonized in clusters, and almost



20
three-quarters have been living in the same place for more than five years and a few are second generation.
In terms of occupation, the squatters are dependent on work opportunities in the town or related to the
river; over half the employment is provide by either rickshaw pulling or laboring on the docks, and 26% are
employed in small shops and businesses. No agricultural or fishery occupations were reported. Owners of
the 116 shops and businesses report that none live in the shops but most live vithin 500 meters. Fixed
assets of the shops is Tk 2.7 million, and movable assets Tk 3.2 million. Annual sales are estimated at Tk
12 million and provide a total income of Tk 1.9 million, or Tk 15,550 per owner. Thus, the shops on the
Sirajganj embankment make a substantial contribution to the local economy and to the operation of local
society, particularly river borne traffic.
2.19   All squatter households have expressed a preference for remaining in the project area because of
local employment. Thus, the RAP is based on relocated squatters being offered permanent residential sites
on government land with a secure tenancy arrangement on 3.2 ha of the reclaimed landfill area near
Ranigrarn Groyne, 1.5 km north of their original homes. The resettlement area will be of a "Site-and-
Services" nature with basic amenities (water, public latrines, garbage containers, paths and drainage).
Asked about community facilities, the displacees prioritized a mosque and a hospital, and a significant
number - particularly female-headed households - put a high priority on access to schooling.  The
displacees will reconstruct their own shelters with materials at their disposal and financial assistance would
be provided to cover the costs of transport, labor and additional building materials, and temporary loss of
business. An important element of the RAP is the early construction of a building which would serve
initially as a reception center for displacees in the process of moving (about 10-12 families at a time for up
to one week), and ultimately as a community service building (school, mosque or clinic). The affected
squatter shops are scattered and tend to be mobile according to trading opportunities, and would probably
move in response to construction activities. The construction schedule implies that they need not be moved
until early 1998. The RAP provides for cash compensation for the costs of moving and for disruption or
temporary loss of trade.
2.20   A survey to determine PAPs was undertaken at Sariakandi, Mathurapara and Kalitola in
November 1992 and updated in March 1995. The site for project works at Kalitola Groyne is well defined,
and 43 PAPs in 10 households will have to be temporarily displaced for about two years. Because there
will be continued river-bank erosion at Mathurapara and Sariakandi after the contractor moves to site in
late 1995 and before he constructs the revetments in 1996/97, the most likely site for the permanent works
was predicted from past erosion rates. Under this scenario, at Mathurapara land will be acquired which
will affect 573 PAPs in 108 households, and 45 households outside the area will lose some of their land. In
the worst case, 70 households, one mosque, two schools and six small shops will have to be relocated. At
Sariakandi, 519 PAPs in 112 households have been identified, and even with no further erosion 71
households will be displaced by construction activities. In the worst case, an additional 41 households in
Digolkandi village could be displaced, along with a brickworks which provides employment for 102 local
people. The number of households affected by the BRE retirement component is provisionally estimated at
50. Once the alignment of the retired section of the BRE (para. 2.13) is resolved, a full survey would
determine the impact of land acquisition on all categories of PAPs in the area so that compensation can be
provided in accordance with the agreed framework of entitlements.
2.21   Many of the PAPs are former erosion victims. In Sariakandi for example, formner erosion victims
form 66% of the population and are mostly employed as day laborers. In Mathurapara the majority of the
PAPs are farmers followed by agricultural day laborers, and only 10-12 percent are engaged in petty
trading. Sariakandi has about half of PAPs engaged in secondary occupations related to the urban area,
while it is only a third in Mathurapara. Female-headed households average 5 percent and many survive as



21
servants and beggars. The RAP survey established clear preferences by asset base for those PAPs who will
need to be resettled: landless households generally preferred to stay in the locality and receive title to a
homestead plot rather than take a cash settlement, whereas landowners wanted cash and would move about
20 kms to Shabgram village near Bogra which houses earlier erosion forced resettlement. Thus the focus of
the RAP will be to resettle the poorer landless PAPs, and unlike Sirajganj, this is proposed to be done
through NGO leadership and group purchase of land. An alternative is resettlement on a berm planned for
the landward side of the relocated BRE, but this would involve two moves and temporary resettlement for
about 2-3 years.
Works Maintenance (Base Cost US$8.6 million)
2.22   Establishment and Support of an O&M Unit (Base Cost US$3.3 million). The project would
support the establishment of a specialized O&M Unit in BWDB for: (a) monitoring the condition and
performance of the bank protection works implemented under the project, and planning annual maintenance
needs accordingly; (b) carrying out timely routine and preventative maintenance work; and (c) maintaining
a stockpile of materials for revetment repair. The Unit would also monitor river-bank line changes and
hydraulic conditions in the vicinity of the wvorks that could have an impact on their security and
effectiveness. The O&M Unit component of the project consists of: (a) establishment of a specialized
riverbank protection works O&M Unit with its Head Office located at Sirajganj; (b) training of selected
BWDB engineers and technicians in maintenance technology; and (c) the O&M Unit's estimated staff and
recurrent costs for four years. Apart from monitoring and evaluation, maintenance activities would include
land-based earthworks and nrver-based routine preventive works and emergency repairs. The Unit will be
organized under the Superintending Engineer (O&M) at BWDB's Bogra Circle Office, and sub-divided into
Head and District offices composed of specialized sub-units to execute the functions listed above. The
organization of the O&M Unit will allow for expansion to cater for future protection works that may be
constructed along the Brahmaputra right bank. Head Office would have overall responsibility and include a
Central Services Section incorporating the Marine Survey Group, a Survey Equipment Maintenance
Group, the Central Casting and Storage Yard, and a Data Analysis and Monitoring Group responsible for
river platform and structural monitoring.  The District office will be responsible for specifying and
programming survey needs and executing the maintenance work. It would consist of a Land Survey Group,
Marine Maintenance Group, and Land Based Maintenance and Storage Yard Group. Further details of the
tasks, organization, equipment and proposed operational modalities of the O&M Unit are given in Annex 4.
It is important that the O&M Unit be fully operational by the date that is the effective date of the Defects
Liability Period of the Sariakandi/Mathurapara civil works contract. It was agreed at negotiations that by
May 30. 1997 BWDB will have: (a) established and fully staffed the O&M Unit for the project works: (b)
appointed consultants to assist the O&M Unit (para 2.26): and (c) procured all necessary survey and
maintenance equipment specified for the O&M Unit's use (para 2.24).
2.23   Training Arrangements. Training of BWDB personnel in works supervision, quality control,
instrumentation and management would be partially undertaken by secondment of selected staff to the
consultant's or Engineer's construction supervision team. Contractors and equipment suppliers would be
required to give practical training to assigned BWDB staff in the use of specialized instrumentation and
equipment of the type to be used later in the monitoring and maintenance of the works. Payment of
contractors for this service will be subject to the Engineer's certification that a satisfactory standard of
training was provided. Provision has been made in the bidding documents for contractors to assist BWDB
for 12 months after completion of the works, i.e., to the end of the contractual Defects Liability Period, by
assigning key personnel to provide training and practical experience in monitoring and O&M.
Internationally recruited technical assistance for the O&M Unit would be provided under the project for a



22
period of two years (para. 2.26). This would consist of advisors to assist the O&M Unit in planning and
executing its maintenance functions, and consultants to train its personnel in executing its monitoring
activities. The general procedures for O&M will be covered in an Operations and Maintenance Manual to
be prepared by the implementation consultants during construction, in consultation with the contractors and
BWDB.
2.24   Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles (Base Cost US$5.4 million). The project would provide
for equipping the O&M Unit with specialized plant and equipment not available to local contractors; it
would also provide the vehicles needed for O&M activities. Sophisticated survey equipment, including
side-scan sonar and an electronic vessel positioning system, would be provided, and its maintenance would
be the responsibility of the Survey Equipment Maintenance Group. Computer equipment for survey data
processing will be required, as will equipment for the processing of satellite imagery. The Marine
Maintenance Group will require a large 650 HP tug, as well as barges and a pontoon with a hydraulic arm
for underwater placement of armor material. The principal plant item of the Land Based Maintenance
Group will be a 50 ton crane to replace revetment armor materials anywhere on the revetment slope above
water. A listing of the items to be procured under the project is given in Table 1 of Annex 4.
Proiect Support for River Bank Protection (Base Cost US$8.4 million)
2.25   Project Support for Construction Supervision (Base Cost US$4.7 million).  Contract
management and site supervision for bank protection works will be undertaken by an international
consulting firm experienced in design and construction of river-bank protection works. A suitably qualified
staff member of the consulting firm would be vested with the full powers of the "Engineer" specified in
IDA's Standard Bidding Documents, and a Resident Engineer at each site would exercise some of the
Engineer's powers and duties in accordance with the provisions for an Engineer's Representative in the
bidding documents. The Chief Resident Engineer would be located in Bogra and carry out overall
supervision duties which constitute direct support to BWDB with respect to technical and contractual
matters and issues, while the Resident Engineers would handle day-to-day engineering supervision at each
site (para. 3.1). The contract management and engineering supervision for minor civil works (para. 2.13)
would be undertaken by BWDB. The consultant's site supervision teams would consist of internationally
recruited staff and local engineers and technicians.  About one-third of the local personnel would be
selected BWDB staff seconded to the consultant for training, and supervision duties on a "lien with GOB"
arrangement. These staff would be under the administrative and technical control of the consultant for the
period of their assignment. The assignments of individuals who do not perform satisfactorily would be
terminated in consultation with BWDB, and BWDB would be responsible for their replacement. It was
agreed during negotiations that the remuneration and service conditions of seconded staff would be identical
to those of other local staff on the consultant's team, and the consultant would be responsible for all
monthly payments reguired to service their pension plans. etc.. maintained by BWDB. BWDB also agreed
to establish and implement satisfactory staff secondment arrangements. Supervision is estimated to require
about 150 person-months of intemationally recruited senior experts, and about 900 person-months of local
engineers and technicians. The consultancy agreement needs to be concluded no later than the date of
signature of the construction contracts. IDA has agreed to BWDB's request to continue with the services
of the consultants who designed the project for project implementation. It has been agreed during
negotiations that construction contracts would be entered into only after siRning of a consultancy agreement
for engineering supervision satisfactorv to IDA .
2.26   Project Support for Operation and Maintenance (Base Cost US$1.5 million) (Annex 4). The
project will provide for internationally recruited technical assistance to the various staff levels of the O&M



23
Unit for a period of two years after its establishment. This would include: (a) a Chief Maintenance
Advisor to advise on the management and planning of the O&M Units operations and activities; (b) an
Engineering Advisor to advise on execution of maintenance work; and (c) a Construction Supervisor to
advise the Central Casting and Storage Sub-Unit. Together wvith the initial training provided by contractors
and suppliers, the above assistance would enable the O&M Unit to function independently. However, in
order to properly evaluate the behavior of the revetments and the river platform, and to modify the
monitoring program in response to that behavior, a different mode of training and support is required. This
training would be provided by the implementation support consultants for a period of two years so that
BWDB may develop the expertise to undertake future bank protection works on major rivers. The training
would be provided by a full-time River Training Engineer and a part-time Hydraulic
Engineer/Morphologist. The use of marine survey equipment also requires very specialized training. The
total input of intemationally recruited technical assistance for maintenance support would be 72 person-
months and 48 person-months of local specialists. The project would also support a contract for the
execution of the initial post-construction structural, bathymetric and hydrographic surveys by
internationally recruited specialists using the O&M Unit's equipment. This contract would include training
of Marine Survey Group staff whilst executing these surveys.
2.27   BWDB  Institutional Development and Capacity Building (Base Cost USS2.2 million).
Improving BWDB's financial accountability has been a key IDA objective for several years and, following
the reform program agreed in August 1994, BWDB has established 25 Regional Accounting Centers
(RACs) which were to have been supported by CIDA technical assistance. However, because of
scheduling problems, CIDA is unable to provide the requested assistance for at least another year and they
have endorsed GOB's request to IDA to include in this project some of the technical assistance originally
included in their package. In addition, BWDB computer and communications systems need upgrading to
increase efficiency and enable introduction of the computers with sufficient speed and capacity to run
modern project management software. Accordingly, the project has made provision for the supply of 100
computer sets (computers, printers, UPSs, maintenance and supplies) for the accounting and management
information reform program, and to improve project supervision and communication in the field, 80 fax
machines, five vehicles and four speed boats. To ensure that adequate training is given for the RACs, and
for project management software, 42 person-months of technical assistance is to be provided.
National Water Plannin2 (Base Cost US$7.9 million)
2.28   National Water Management Planning. This component will include internationally recruited
technical assistance (base cost US$6.0 million), training (base cost US$0.2 million), vehicles and
equipment (base cost US$1.4 million), and GOB personnel and operational costs (base cost US$0.2
million) for strengthening WARPO, an agency established in March 1992 under the MoWR which is to be
enlarged by the absorption of FPCO in early 1996 and be solely responsible for strategic planning of water
resources and development of investment projects. On September 11, 1995, the GOB Cabinet approved
the Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy which establishes WARPO as the apex national
water planning organization. The principal tasks of WARPO will be to: (i) produce and periodically revise
the National Water Management Plan (NWMP); (ii) ensure that planning of water resources - whether by
WARPO or by other agencies - follows approved planning guidelines; (iii) ensure that all projects in the
water resources sector are technically, socially, economically, financially and environmentally sustainable;
(iv) prepare pre-feasibility studies for all MoWR projects and scrutinize the water sector implications of
projects prepared by other agencies to ensure consistency with the NWMP and check for potential conflicts
and complementarities; (v) maintain and expand the databases developed by the prior WARPO, FPCO and
other agencies, and make these data accessible to outside users; (vi) maintain and develop the analytical



24
capacities developed by the prior WARPO, FPCO and under specific FAP programs; (vii) review and
evaluate water sector planning and projects to provide feedback into the planning process; and (viii)
become the water sector information dissemination center. Specific objectives to be achieved by year 2000
will include the creation of an effective organization capable of accounting for inter-sectoral and cross-
sectoral impacts and priorities: a revised and comprehensive NWMP which integrates and further develops
the results of the FAP within a coherent plan for the water resources sector as a whole; a portfolio projects
for the medium term; and training to develop analytical capabilities that are necessary for continued and
effective water resources planning and management.
2.29   Critical to the success of the program for strengthening of WARPO will be its ability to undertake
multi-disciplinary water sector planning with sufficient authority to ensure coordinated development by all
relevant departments and agencies. Experience with water sector planning suggests that WARPO will need
to be substantially elevated in the bureaucracy to be fully effective.  GOB and MoWR stated at
negotiations that they are fully committed to enhancing WARPO's effectiveness and stature. The first step
in the process will be to operationalize the institutional recommendations for water sector planning
expected to be agreed betAveen GOB, NGOs and the international development community during the
Intemational Conference on the FAP scheduled for November 8-9, 1995. It was agreed at negotiations that
heads of WARPO's Planning, Socio-Economics, Environment. Land Resources, and Hvdrology and
Engineering Directorates would be appointed with relevant qualifications and experience, as regular
employees by June 30. 1996.
2.30   The technical assistance will support a team of expatriate and local consultants for three years
(1996-99) to work with the MoWR at institution building and plan formulation and provide vehicles and
equipment. The TA will provide two services. First, a Water Policy Advisory Group which will advise
MoWR periodically, comprising five internationally renowned local and expatriate economists, institutions
specialists and planners. Second, the TA will provide a multi-disciplinary team of local and expatriate
consultants to work with WARPO on training and national water planning. Primary tasks will be to: (a)
assist the formulation of a multi-disciplinary WARPO through the amalgamation of the prior FPCO and
WARPO; (b) assist WARPO in the preparation by June 30, 1998, of a National Water Management Plan
which will address planning needs, continued institutional reform and a portfolio of projects for the medium
term; (c) assisting WARPO to refine the long-term national water management strategy; (d) assist WARPO
in developing capability for environmental management and participatory planning; and (e) transfer
technical and managerial skills and knowledge through intensive in-country and overseas training. In
addition, the project would include funds to finance computers, information dissemination and logistical
support of the consultants. A six member Panel of Experts (POE) would independently review work
programs, strategic planning and projects to ensure adherence to sound institutional, economic, social,
environmental and financial principles and criteria. No financial provision is included in this credit for the
POE as GOB intends to fund this element bi-laterally following the precedent set by FAP. It was agreed at
negotiations that by April 30. 1996 contracts satisfactory to IDA would be signed with a consulting firm to
provide assistance to WARPO and arranzements satisfactora to IDA would be made to obtain the services
of a Panel of Experts. It was also agreed that WARPO would prepare a National Water Management Plan
by June 30. 1998 and provide it to IDA for comment.
F. Environmental Aspects
2.31   The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening category "B" since its additional
bank protection works do not create irreversible and diverse adverse physical and social impacts.
Identifiable adverse impacts at each site would be confined to the implementation period, and occur



25
primarily in one or two construction seasons each lasting several months (paras. 2.10 and 2.12). These
impacts can be mitigated and provisions for the Engineer to monitor such impact and enforce actions to
mitigate them have been included in the bidding documents for the works (Annex 5). These provisions
include nuisance control of transport to the sites, production, transport and stockpiling of materials,
dredging and hydraulic fill, borrow pit operation and site clearance. Adverse impacts of the dredging and
hydraulic fill operations would be localized. Model studies indicate that the fine sand displaced by
dredging will cause a plume of modest concentration with a maximum spread of 1.5 km, thus leaving about
75% of the width of the river channel unaffected. The material to be dredged from the river bed is confined
to the depth of normal bed sediment movement, and no disturbance of deeper material is expected. At
Sariakandi/Mathurapara, a small excess of dredged material must be safely disposed of and provisions
have been made in contract specifications for this requirement. There may be some seasonal disturbance of
fishing as fish may migrate away from the area of construction activity. Provision is made to mitigate
declining floodplain fisheries behind the BRE by including a fish pass in the section of the BRE which will
be retired to enable seasonal fish migration from the Brahmaputra-Jamuna to the Bangali floodplain. For
typical flood embankments, provision of sluices would be made to enable drainage of water trapped by the
embankment. The 8 km retirement does not include such provisions because it will be relocated to the
residual ridge of relatively high land separating the Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers, and local drainage is
away from the embankment towards these rivers.
2.32   The project would require significant production of bricks for use as aggregate in the manufacture
of concrete blocks to serve as revetment armor material in the event that brick aggregate is selected instead
of imported gravel (para. 2.4). A large brick demand could lead to the illegal consumption of timber as kiln
fuel, and thereby result in environmentally damaging deforestation. To counter this adverse development,
the bidding documents include the following mitigation measures: (a) bidders are required to price for
armoring not only of brick aggregate concrete blocks but also for altemative stone aggregate blocks and for
dumped rock; and (b) if the brick aggregate concrete block armoring option is selected, the contract
specifications provide for enforceable controls to ensure the supply of bricks only from brick fields that use
coal-fired kilns. On completion of construction and the Engineer's certification that a contractor has met
site reinstatement and clearance obligations, physical monitoring of the works and their impact on river
platforms will be undertaken by the project's O&M Unit. This monitoring program will be developed by
the consultants providing technical assistance for maintenance support who will also be required to provide
training for its implementation (para. 2.25).
G. Status of Preparation and Implementation Schedule
2.33   Preparation. Detailed designs, cost estimates and bidding documents have been prepared for the
river-bank protection works at Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajganj. Funding has been arranged (from a
technical assistance provision under Cr. 1870-BD) for the design consultant to monitor river platform and
morphological conditions since the 1993 monsoon season. This funding includes: (a) provision for
preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan and general land acquisition survey for Sirajganj, Sariakandi and
Mathurapara; and (b) evaluation of prequalification applications and bid evaluation. Advance procurement
has been initiated for the two bank protection sub-projects using prequalification documents based on
selection criteria in conformity with IDA's 1993 Standard Prequalification Document. Bid documents are
in conformity with the IDA Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works, January 1995.
Prequalification evaluation has been completed by BWDB and agreement has been reached on a list of
firms to be invited to submit proposals. The prequalified firms were invited in June 1995 to submit bids
and these were received on August 19, 1995. IDA has no objection to BWDB's request that the existing
design consultants be retained for supervision of project implementation and BWDB has received a



26
consultancy proposal for engineering supervision which is being evaluated. An Environmental Impact
Assessment for project works has been prepared and reviewed by GOB and IDA. A Resettlement Plan has
been prepared and all outstanding issues related to the PAP matrix of entitlements have been agreed with
GOB (para. 2.17).
2.34   Implementation Schedule (Annex 7).  Contracts for river-bank protection works would be
awarded following ICB procedures in accordance with the January 1996 target date for Credit
effectiveness. If this date is not met, the time for mobilization and material stockpiling may be inadequate
to utilize the November 1996-May 1997 construction season. All civil works are planned for completion
by the end of FY98 (paras. 2.10 and 2.12) while support for O&M activity would continue till Decernber
31, 2000. The WARPO assistance component would be initiated in mid-CY96 and continue for three
years. The total project implementation period would therefore be about five years but would include parts
of six fiscal years (FY96-FY2001).
H. Proiect Cost
2.35   The total project cost is estimated at US$156.0 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$58.6 million or about 38% of the total cost (Table 2.1). The civil works base cost
estimates are based on prices at appraisal, updated to April 1995, of each item in the bills of quantities
included in the bidding documents. The cost estimates for minor civil works (to be carried out by local
contractors) are based on the BWDB Schedule of Rates and prevailing market prices.Land and resettlement
cost estimates are derived from the draft Resettlement Plan (Annex 3). The cost of works for the
resettlement site for the Sirajganj sub-project has been included in the bid documents for the protection
works. Cost estimates for specialized O&M equipment and plant are based on consultants' estimates of
international procurement prices. The costs of consultants' services, vehicles and computers are based on
recent contracts for similar services and equipment in Bangladesh. O&M recurrent costs (staff, labor,
equipment, operation and transport and surveys) are based on consultants' detailed estimates of the
proposed O&M Units' operations. O&M materials costs are based on the assumption that 1% of the
revetment armor material (blocks, rocks, geotextile) would be replaced annually, while major preventative
maintenance every 5-6 years would require about 5% of the original revetment armor material to be
replaced.
2.36   The project includes an estimated US$18.5 million in taxes and duties. Price contingencies and
foreign exchange rates have been estimated on the basis of current projections of local and foreign inflation.
Foreign inflation is estimated at 2.6% per annum during the project period. Local inflation is estimated at
rates ranging from 4% to 5% per annum during the construction period. Physical contingencies are
estimated at 10% and 18% for the Sirajganj and Sariakandi/Mathurapara works, respectively. Physical
contingencies for minor civil works, procurement of O&M maintenance equipment, O&M recurrent costs,
and construction supervision consultants' services are estimated at 10%. A contingency of 5% was
assumed for the O&M consultants' services and the WARPO technical assistance component. Physical
contingencies for land acquisition and resettlement are 30% to allow for the uncertainty caused by
continued river erosion. A detailed breakdown of project costs is given in Annex 6.



27
Table 2.1: Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total Exchange
(Tk. million)          (USS million)          %
1. River Bank Protection
Civil Engineering
Major Civil Works                   2697.3  1447.2  4144.5    67.3    36.0  103.3   35
Minor Civil Works                     48.9      7.3   56.2      1.2     0.2   1.4   13
Land Acquisition                       32.4            32.4     0.8            0.8    0
Resettlement                          28.3             28.3     0.7            0.7    0
BWDB Project Management               143.0           143.0     3.5            3.5    0
Works Maintenance
SurveyandO&MEquipment                 125.5    89.7  215.2      3.1     2.2   5.3   42
O&MRecurrentCosts                      38.7    43.8   82.5      1.0     1.1   2.1   53
BVDB Management                       43.9      3.3   47.2      1.1     0.1    1.2    7
Technical Assistance
Construction SupervisionProject Support   52.9   135.8  188.7   1.3     3.4   4.7   72
O&MProjectSupport                      17.2    44.3   61.5      0.4     1.1   1.5   72
Institutional Support and Training BWDB    11.1    15.9   27.0  0.3     0.4   0.7   59
O&M Vehicles                           11.4     8.2   19.6      0.3     0.2   0.5   42
Construction & Supervision Equipment   23.2    16.6   39.8      0.6     0.4   1.0   42
2. National Water Planning
Institutional Buildine and Strengthening
WARPO Management and Support
Personnel and Operating Costs          23.6     2.5   26.1      0.6     0.1   0.7   10
Vehicles                              22.6    16.2   38.8       0.6     0.4    1.0   42
Equipment                              10.1     6.7   16.8      0.3     0.2   0.5   40
Technical Assistance
Institutional Strengthening of WARPO  40.4   181.2  221.6       1.0     4.5   5.5   82
Training for WARPO                     0.6      7.6    8.2      0.0     0.2   0.2   93
Total Baseline Cost                 3371.1  2026.3  5397.4    84.1    50.5  134.6   38
Physical Contingencies               412.6   238.8  651.4    10.2       6.0  16.2   37
Price Contingencies                  238.4   152.0  390.4       3.1     2.1   5.2   41
Total Project Cost -                4022.1  2417.1  6439.2    97.4    58.6  156.0   38
* Including duties and taxes of US$18.5 million equivalent
I. Project Financin2
2.37    The project would be financed by IDA and GOB. The IDA Credit of SDR78.4 million (US$121.9
million equivalent) would cover about 89% of the project cost excluding taxes and duties. The recurrent
costs of the completed bank protection works would be supported by IDA on a declining annual percentage
basis. GOB would finance the remaining project costs, estimated at US$34.1 million equivalent. GOB's
contribution would be made available through annual budget appropriations in conformance with the
project implementation schedule. It was agreed at negotiations that GOB would provide adequate funds for
O&M of works constructed or rehabilitated under the project based on an agreed schedule of budgetar
requirements to be reviewed with the Bank each year following the establishment of the O&M Unit. GOB
would have two Project Proformas for the project. The first would be for the river-bank civil works, land
acquisition and resettlement, O&M, and technical assistance for institutional development of BWDB. The



28
second would be for the national water planning component. It was agreed at negotiations that GOB
approval of the Proiect Proforma for the components of the project to be implemented by BWDB and
MoWR approval of the draft Project Proforma for the national water plannin,e component would be a
condition of Credit Effectiveness. Subseguentlv. GOB would approve the WARPO Project Proforma by
February 28. 1996. Table 2.2 summarizes the project financing plan by component.
Table 2.2: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
IDA     GOB       Total
1. River Bank Protection
Civil Engineering
Major Civil Works                             99.6    20.7    120.2
Minor Civil Works                              1.4     0.3       1.7
Land Acquisition                                       1.1       1.1
Resettlement                                   0.5     0.5       1.0
BWDB Project Management                                4.0       4.0
Works Maintenance
Survey and O&M Equipment                       2.6     3.6       6.2
O&M Recurrent Costs                            1.6     0.9       2.5
BWDB Management                                0.3      1.0      1.4
Technical Assistance
Construction & Supervision Project Support     5.4               5.4
O&M Project Support                            1.7               1.7
Institutional Support & Training for BWDB      0.7               0.7
O&M Vehicles                                   0.2     0.3       0.5
Construction & Supervision Equipment           0.5     0.6       1.1
2. National Water Planning
Institution Buildinz and Strengthening
WARPO Management and Support
Personnel & Operational Costs                  0.4     0.3       0.7
Vehicles                                       0.4     0.6       1.0
Equipment                                      0.2     0.3       0.5
Technical Assistance
Institutional Strengthening of WARPO           6.1               6.1
Training for WARPO                             0.2               0.2
Total Project Costs-k                                  121.9    34.1     156.0
a/ Including duties and taxes of USSI 8 5 million equivalent
J. Procurement
2.38   The arrangements for procurement are summarized in Table 2.3, followed by more detailed
descriptions of the procurement arrangements. A procurement schedule is included in Annex 7.
2.39   The major civil works, consisting of river-bank protection works at Sirajganj and Sariakandi/
Mathurapara, would be carried out under two contracts awarded following prequalification and ICB
procedures. Bids were invited on June 18, 1995 and tenders received on August 19, 1995. The bidding
documents did not include a domestic preference as no domestic contractors have the experience or



29
equipment to undertake hydraulic works of this scope or complexity. Minor civil works up to an
aggregated amount of US$1.7 million consisting of 8 km of BRE retirement, including a fish-pass
structure and associated cross drainage, would be carried out through NCB among qualified contractors
following procedures acceptable to the Association. It was agreed at negotiations that. in addition to the
use of the NCB bidding documents satisfactory to IDA. such works would be offered only to domestic
contractors of Class A registration (as defined by the laws of GOB) or foreign firms meeting equivalent
standards. Earthworks would be grouped into one or two contracts. and bidders for a separate contract for
the fish-pass structure would be prequalified.
Table 2.3: Methods of Procurement
(US$ Million)!'
ICB      NCB   Othersb'   Total
Civil Works:
Major Civil Works                  120.2                        120.2
(99.8)                      (99.8)
Minor Civil Works                               1.7                1.7
(1.4)             (1.4)
Land Acquisition                                          1.1      1.1
Resettlement                                             0.9      0.9
Operation and Maintenance                       2.0       1.8     3.8
(0.8)    (0.8)    (1.6)
Vehicles & Equipment:
Vehicles                              1.6                          1.6
(0.7)                       (0.7)
Equipment                             1.1       0.4       0.1      1.6
(0.6)    (0.1)              (0.7)
Survey and O&M Equipment              6.2                          6.2
(2.6)                       (2.6)
Technical Assistance & Traininz:
Consultants                                             13.6    13.6
(13.6)   (13.6)
Overseas Training                                        0.2       0.2
(0.2)    (0.2)
GOB Project Management:                                           5.1      5.1
(1.3)    (1.3)
Total                  129.1       4.1      22.8   156.0
(103.7)     (2.3)   (15.9) (121.9)
v Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA.
' Others includes national shopping and procurement of consultants' services under IDA procedures, and GOB
procedures for land acquisition and line agency support (including force account maintenance activities).
2.40   Procurement of a survey vessel equipped for marine survey with position-fixing equipment, side
scan sonar, echo sounder and data processing equipment, a tug, barges, small land survey items and
vehicles for the O&M  Unit valued at about US$6.2 million, vehicles and boats for BWDB valued at
US$0.5 million, vehicles for WARPO valued at about US$1.1 million, and computers and fax machines for



30
BWDB valued at US$1.1 million would be through ICB procedures. The maintenance activities of the
O&M Unit would be undertaken either by force account or small civil works contracts. Procurement of
construction materials (geotextiles, cement, rock or stone) required for maintenance during the project
period and contracts for minor O&M civil works, not to exceed US$2.0 million in aggregate, and
computers and air conditioners for WARPO would be by NCB. Minor office equipment, furniture and
training materials for WARPO, estimated not to exceed the equivalent of US$10,000 per contract or
US$100,000 in aggregate, may be procured from time to time under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping. Consultancy services would be procured following IDA guidelines. Terms of
Reference, shortlists and draft contracts would be furnished to IDA for concurrence. IDA has agreed to
GOB's request to continue the services of the consultant firm employed for project design for
implementation support services. IDA review of procurement would be as follows:
(a)    all civil works contracts, other than contracts below US$ 200,000 for maintenance of the
civil works, would be submitted to IDA for prior review; and
(b)    contracts for vehicles, equipment and construction materials estimated to cost in excess of
US$ 200,000 equivalent, contracts for consultant's services by firms in excess of
US$100,000 equivalent, and contracts for individual consultants in excess of US$50,000
equivalent would be subject to prior review.
In sum, prior review would constitute over 80% of the total value of works and equipment. For other
contracts, bid documents and evaluations would be retained by BWDB or WARPO and made available to
IDA representatives on request.
K. Disbursements
2.41   Disbursements of the IDA credit would extend over a period of about 5 years ending December 31,
2000 and would cover expenditures for:
(a)    83% of expenditures on major and minor civil works;
(b)    50% of resettlement expenditures, consisting of all expenditures for the resettlement of
people displaced by the project and the provision of assistance to people affected by the
project to reestablish them to prior standards of living but excluding the costs of
government salaries, offices, and operating expenses, and compensation paid for
acquisition of land or property;
(c)    100% of expenditures on consultants services, net of taxes and duties, and for overseas
training of selected WARPO staff,
(d)    100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported equipment, vehicles and computers, or
100% of ex-factory costs for such items manufactured in Bangladesh and 70% of
expenditures for such items procured locally off-the-shelf, and
(e)    O&M recurrent costs during the project period are to be disbursed at 85% of expenditures
up to June 30, 1998, 65% of expenditures in FY99, and 45% thereafter.



31
All disbursements will be made following standard IDA documentation requirements, except for works
contracts and goods contracts valued at US$200,000 or less per contract, consulting firm contracts valued
at US$100,000 or less per contract, individual consultant contracts valued at US$50,000 or less per
contract, and expenditures for operations and maintenance, training and resettlement for which Statement
of Expenditure (SOE) procedures will be used. BWDB and WARPO will retain detailed documentation
supporting SOEs for inspection by IDA supervision missions. This documentation would also be subject to
audit. It was agreed at negotiations that all documents sent to IDA in support of withdrawal applications,
including statements of expenditure, for civil works, resettlement, or operations and maintenance activities
would have been checked and certified by the implementation or maintenance support consultants as
appropriate. For the case of the river-bank protection and O&M works, the certification would include the
adequacy of the quality of the works.
2.42   The disbursement schedule (Annex 6) reflects the anticipated sequence of activities in
implementation and is based on the assumption that disbursement for works in one quarter would be
completed in the next two quarters. The average disbursement period for water resources development
projects in Bangladesh has been nine years. However, a 30-month construction period for the respective
bank protection works is considered feasible in view of the use of ICB procurement for the major civil
works contracts, tendering prior to Board presentation, and construction supervision by a consultant
designated with the powers of the Engineer under such contracts. It is expected that the potential financial
penalties incurred by either BWDB (e.g., claims) or the contractors (e.g., liquidated damages) in the case of
delays in fulfilling their respective obligations under such contracts are an adequate incentive to maintain
the implementation schedule.. It is also expected that contractual disputes would be resolved expeditiously
by the Disputes Review Board, and that delays in land acquisition would be minimized by the project's land
acquisition arrangements (paras. 2.15-2.16) and the small quantities of land to be acquired. These
provisions in the project design should therefore result in disbursement of most of the available IDA Credit
after three years of the five-year project period have elapsed. Delay in the implementation of the minor
civil works component executed under NCB contracts would not materially affect the disbursement
schedule because of its small cost.
2.43   While most of the IDA funding will be handled through the two civil works contracts and contracts
for the supply of plant and equipment for the O&M Unit, and three consultancy agreements for the
technical assistance sub-components (two for BWDB's project implementation and for O&M, one for
national water planning under WARPO), many small discrete and periodic payments will be required for
procurement of computers, O&M expenditures, etc. To facilitate small payments and ensure the
availability of funds and reduce the number of withdrawal applications made to IDA, GOB would open and
thereafter maintain two Special Accounts in US Dollars with the Bangladesh Bank in Dhaka. The
authorized allocation for the BWDB Special Account would be US$1,500,000 equivalent, while the
Special Account for WARPO would be US400,000 equivalent, each authorized allocation representing
average eligible expenditure of BWDB and WARPO for four months. The Special Accounts would be
replenished periodically as required, and would be used exclusively for IDA's share of the financing.
L. Accounts and Audits
2.44   In line with Guidelines on Financial Reporting and Auditing of World Bank Projects, BWDB and
WARPO would establish and maintain separate project-related accounts and records to identify physical
progress and financial transactions relating to the project. Accounts showing individual expenditures
would also be kept for all transactions for which credit withdrawals are made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (para. 2.41) and the flow of funds from the Special Account (para 2.43). Auditors acceptable



32
to IDA would audit these accounts annually, including statements of expenditure and the Special Accounts.
It was agreed during negotiations that audited accounts. together with auditors' comments. would be sent to
IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year (Annex 9). At present, the accounts of BWDB and
WARPO are audited by the Directorate of Audits for Foreign Aided Projects of the Comptroller and
Auditor General of Bangladesh. This arrangement is satisfactory to IDA. Alternatively, the accounts could
be audited by external public accountants acceptable to IDA. The foregoing accounting, financial reporting
and auditing arrangements should provide adequate and timely information to IDA for supervision of the
project.
3. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Proiect Implementation
3.1    Coordination and Civil Works Management. Administrative responsibility for the project's civil
works construction and O&M components would rest with BWDB's Member Implementation and Member
O&M respectively, and be implemented within the administrative hierarchy of each Member's line
organization.  A Project Director, with the rank of Additional Chief Engineer - under Member
Implementation - would establish a Project Office at Bogra for the duration of the civil works contracts. He
would be responsible to the BWDB for the Engineer's management of the civil works contracts and would
prepare and submit all contract and construction issues requiring BWDB's approval. The Project Director
would be assisted by two Executive Engineers assigned to the construction sites at Sirajganj and Sariakandi
for the duration of the respective civil works contracts. To facilitate functional coordination and progress
monitoring of the diverse project activities carried out by these separate administrative branches, a Project
Coordinator - with the rank of Superintending Engineer - would be appointed at BWDB headquarters in
Dhaka to manage a Project Implementation Unit under Member Implementation for the duration of the
project. He would also serve as IDA's principal counterpart for project supervision (other than for the
WARPO component) and be responsible for project reporting requirements (Annex 9). BWDB has
appointed the Project Director and Project Coordinator with qualification and experience satisfactory to
IDA (September 1995). The duties of the Project Director and Project Coordinator are listed in Annex 11.
The WARPO national water planning component would be the administrative responsibility of the
Director-General (para 2.28).
3.2    O&M Unit Establishment. Since the O&M Unit for river-bank protection works would be a
permanent part of BWDB's O&M field organization, executive responsibilities for its establishment and
subsequent activities would rest with Chief Engineer (O&M), Northwest Zone, located at the Rajashahi
zonal office. The supervision of the O&M Unit would be delegated to the Superintending Engineer at the
Bogra O&M Circle offices. The Unit's management would be under an Executive Engineer located at
Sirajganj (Annex 4, Fig. 1). The Chief Engineer, Northwest Zone, would be responsible for: (a) timely
recruitment and assignment of engineers and other staff to the Unit; (b) timely procurement and delivery of
the Unit's vehicles and equipment (in collaboration with the Project Coordinator); and (c) timely availability
of the initial funds for recurrent expenses and operations. The Superintending Engineer (O&M) would be
responsible for: (a) assignment of office and yard space at Sirajganj and Sariakandi; (b) staff training and
maintenance support technical assistance; and (c) normal administrative supervision of the O&M Unit's
management of planning, programming and budgeting activities, and monitoring of its operational
performance. Technical assistance consultants (para 2.25) would be located at Bogra and would advise
and assist the Superintending Engineer (O&M) and the Unit's Executive Engineers. Further details of the
O&M Unit's organization and management are given in Annex 4.



33
3.3    BWDB Institutional Development by Capacity Building. Technical assistance for institutional
development of BWDB will be coordinated the Member (Finance) and Member (Administration). The
Regional Accounting Centers' (RACs') technical equipment will be upgraded using equipment provided by
the project, and their staff will be trained by expatriate consultants who would report to the Member
(Finance). The balance of the equipment provided would be allocated by the Member (Administration) to
enable upgrading of management information system. The Member (Implementation) would be responsible
for coordinating transport equipment allocation to support BWDB's project implementation operations.
3.4   National Water Planning Component.  The MoWR established WARPO in 1992 to be
responsible for national water planning. However, with MoWR and donor interest diverted by the FAP,
this new organization was not given sufficient support to establish itself as a credible national planning
organization. Recognizing this weakness and the importance of sound water sector planning for project
preparation, GOB has proposed in the draft Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy statement
of March 1995, that WARPO will be upgraded and strengthened over the period 1996-98. In addition,
WARPO will absorb appropriate members of the Flood Plan Coordination Organization's (FPCO) staff
when FPCO ceases in January 1996, and take on the responsibility of completing the ongoing work
initiated under the FAP. WARPO is to be headed by a Director-General supported by five technical
directorates (planning, socio-economics, environment, land resources, hydrology and engineering) and draw
upon the services of existing institutions for specialist assistance (e.g. Surface Water Modeling Simulation
Center, the Rivers Research Institute, Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies). Policy guidance and
strategic direction will be provided by the National Water Council (NWC) chaired by the Prime Minister,
and an inter-ministerial National Water Management Plan steering committee will periodically review
WARPO's goals, objectives and annual work plan to ensure that they accord with NWC policy.
Consultants provided under this credit will assist the Director-General to objectively review and evaluate
past national water planning efforts and FAP, formulate and implement a medium termn work plan 1996-
1998 to produce a national water management plan, and provide training and technology transfer to make
WARPO a sustainable national water planning organization.
Construction Supervision
3.5   Suitably qualified internationally implementation consultants would play a major role in assisting
BWDB in contract management and supervision of construction (para 2.25). The consultant designated as
Engineer would maintain an office in Bogra headed by the Chief Resident Engineer (CRE) who would work
with the BWDB Project Director and with district administration on land acquisition and resettlement
issues. Two site offices at Sirajganj and Sariakandi, both headed by a Resident Engineer (RE), would be
responsible for day-to-day construction supervision. Each RE would be designated as the Engineer's
Representative and delegated with the powers and duties necessary for effective site supervision of
construction activities. Details of these duties are given in Annex 10. Field operations for the minor civil
works component would be carried out through BWDB's Bogra Circle office under the Circle
Superintending Engineer. His responsibilities would include: organizing and supervising the surveys and
investigations necessary for land acquisition; cooperation with District Land Acquisition Officers to
arrange for verification of land acquisition plans; selection of contractors and award of contracts;
supervision and construction quality control. These activities would also be monitored by the Project
Director. Settlement of contractural disputes would be through a Disputes Review Board to be constituted
for each civil works contract in accordance with the provisions of its bid documents.



34
Coordinating Committees
3.6    A Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by the BWDB Chairman, would meet at least every
three months to review progress and problems and issue necessary decisions and directives. This commiittee
would include the Project Director, Project Coordinator, Chief Engineer (O&M), Northwest Zone,
Superintending Engineer of the Bogra O&M Circle and representatives of the various consultants engaged
in implementation and maintenance supervision. In addition, project review meetings, chaired by the
Additional Secretary MoWR would be held semi-annually with representation from involved agencies and
ministries. District Coordinating Committees would be established in both the Sirajganj and Bogra
districts. These committees would be headed by the Deputy Commissioner and include a representative of
the Project Director, BWDB's Executive Engineer, the Engineer's Representatives, and representatives of
government agencies affected by the project works or with whom coordination is needed. The District
Commnittee would disseminate information on the project's activities in the district, serve as a focus for
beneficiary comments, and assist in land acquisition and resettlement. Assurances were given during
negotiations that the National Project Coordinating Committee and the two District Coordinating
Committees would be constituted by November 15 1995 and meet at least every three months until all civil
works construction is completed.
Resettlement Plan Implementation
3.7    GOB is committed to sound resettlement policies as is demonstrated by the implementation of the
resettlement plan for the Jamuna Bridge (Cr. 2569-BD) and the Second Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (Cr. 2638-BD). BWDB traditionally has only had to concern itself with land
acquisition through its Land and Revenue Directorate and resettlement planning was not seen as its
responsibility prior to the preparation of RBPP and the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
(CERP). However, following agreement between IDA and GOB in August 1994, BWDB has begun
implementation of a comprehensive reform program which includes creation of an Environmental and
Resettlement Planning Group (ERPG) staffed by multi-disciplinary project teams within a reorganized
Land and Water Use Directorate (LWUD). The LWUD staffing plan is under review in the MoWR, and
full recruitment is expected by December 1995. In the interim, BWDB has established project-specific
ERPGs for Dhaka city and Bhola Phase II, and units are planned for ADB's proposed Khulna-Jessore
Drainage Project, IDA's CERP and this proposed project. Staff for RBPP resettlement activities have been
sanctioned by BWDB and posting is expected to be completed before October 15, 1995. In the RAP, it is
recognized that the institutional reorganization generally takes longer than planned, and that the most
effective and timely way to manage implementation is to place resettlement responsibilities under the
management of a Deputy Director Resettlement within the Project Management and Resettlement Unit
(PMRU) to manage the resettlement and rehabilitation program. Actions to facilitate implementation which
have been already completed by BWDB include: (a) completion of a draft plan for multi-disciplinary
staffing of the reorganized LWUD (April 1995); (b) approval of Guidelines of Peoples' Participation which
includes PAPs (December 1994); and (c) revision of the Peoples' Participation Plan to allow for the hire of
NGOs (December 1994); (d) appointment of all the professional staff of the Project Management and
Resettlement Unit (September 1995); and (e) contracts for consulting services for the first year's
resettlement program have been signed (October 1995).
3.8    The central Project Management and Resettlement Unit (PMRU) will be located in Bogra and sub-
project offices will be established in Sirajganj and Sariakandi. For resettlement activities, the PMRU will
be assisted by the implementation consultants which would sub-contract specific responsibilities (discussed
below) to one or two NGOs. The PMRU will ensure that all affected persons are identified and extra



35
entitlements defined along with the legal minimum compensation. The selected NGOs will assist with: (a)
public information; (b) providing field workers to contact affected persons and maintain detailed records
for individual entitlements; (c) advising on land purchase, relocation and developing resettlement sites; and
(d) serving on Grievance Committees. Because of the complcxity and confusion over land records there is
considerable scope for grievance over the whole compensation process and the PMRU will establish
impartial Grievance Committees in Sirajganj and Sariakandi to avoid PAPs having to make visits to the
distant town of Bogra where the PMRU is located. Each committee will have at least four members: a
representative of the Assistant Deputy Commissioner (Revenue) who would be Convenor, the Program
Manager of the NGO, the Resettlement Public Relations Officer, and the BWDB's Sub-Divisional Engineer
(Member-Secretary); additional members (e.g. local teachers, religious leaders) may be co-opted as
necessary. The Grievance Committees will be formed within two months of the establishment of the
PMRU and meet at least weekly, and committee expenses (including visits to PAPs and Land Record
Offices), will be paid from project funds. To enable local NGOs to be contracted expeditiously for the
resettlement work, BWDB have agreed to allow the expatriate Consultants (whose services have been
extended to January 1996 under Cr. 1870-BD) to sub-contract NGOs directly. The contracts for their
services would be extended when the implementation consultant's contract is signed. The qualifications of
the selected NGO subcontractor and its responsibilities are acceptable to IDA.
3.9    The RAP contains a detailed timetable for implementation (Annex 3). In Sirajganj and at Kalitola
Groyne, hand-over of land to BWDB for construction activities in the dry season of 1995-96 is scheduled
to start in January 1996. To ensure vacant possession for BWDB and allow time for processing and
paying compensation payments, Section 3 notices Nvere given to PAPs at Sirajganj and Kalitola Groyne by
October 1, 1995 and joint verification field-work to determine the value of the land to be acquired has been
completed with the participation of the implementation consultants and selected NGO. Determination of
compensation by the DC and its budget estimate is scheduled to be submitted to BWDB by December 20,
1995. BWDB must then deposit funds with the DC by December 24, 1995 and full payment to PAPs is
scheduled for completion by January 10, 1996. The timetable for Sariakandi and Mathurapara is equally
critical, and identification of the land to be acquired can only be finalized once the monsoon floods have
receded, that is by November 15. The proposal for land acquisition is scheduled to go to the DC by
November 30, and complete payments of compensation to PAPs has to be completed by September 1, 1996
in order for construction to start in the fall of 1996. A six-month delay in the land acquisition process
could set back construction until the following year, 1997, and greatly increase the risk of erosion and
break through of the Brahmaputra-Jamuna into the Bengali river channel. Monitoring of the resettlement
program (including control sites) xvill continue throughout the construction program in order to verify that
none of the PAPs is made wvorse off by the project.
Implementation Reviews
3.10   IDA would conduct two project supervision missions a year during the project period (Annex 10).
This would include a special joint review of the WARPO component with the Government six months after
completion of the inception period to assess the inception plan for WARPO to absorb FPCO and integrate
FAP within the national water planning framework. To examine project progress, GOB would carry out
two implementation reviews at the end of the second and fourth project years. GOB would organize the
reviews and prepare terms of reference in consultation with IDA through the Project Director for the river-
bank protection component and the Chairman WARPO for the national water planning component. For the
nver-bank protection component, the reviews would focus on resolving bottlenecks in the civil works
programs and adjusting the maintenance components in response to any performance difficulties. The first
review would focus on the river-bank protection component to determine benefits from the initial
experience of secondment of BWDB staff to the Engineer's supervision teams and the training provided by



36
contractors; and for WARPO, the review would examine progress in building technical capacity,
development of sound criteria and standards for national water planning, and production of a prioritized
portfolio of projects which are environmentally, socially, economically, financially and institutionally
sound. The second review would evaluate: (a) the river-bank protection O&M Unit and any requirements
for its future effective operation; and (b) assess the effectiveness of the upgraded and expanded WARPO
organization. The reviews would thus provide a detailed examination of any problems encountered and
make recommendations for improving project implementation and for modifying the project, if appropriate.
The project consultants would participate in these reviews. It was agreed during negotiations that GOB
would monitor the performance of the project in accordance with agreed perfornance indicators (Annex
10). and would undertake these implementation reviews in consultation with IDA. and revise the Project
Proforma as necessary to promptly reflect project revisions agreed with IDA.
4. PROJECT BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS
A. Proiect Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.1    Proiect Benefits Quantifiable benefits arise from the prevention of river-bank erosion damages to
land, housing and infrastructure, and local and regional flooding resulting from erosion-induced breaches of
the BRE and merger of the Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers. The damages avoided are: (a) destruction of
land, property and infrastructure caused by erosion; (b) resultant loss of wages to unemployment; (c) loss
of crops, livestock, property and infrastructure on 400 ha near a BRE breach; (d) regional losses to crops,
property and infrastructure after increased flooding due to the breakthrough of the Brahmaputra to the
Bangali River at Sariakandi/ Mathurapara; (e) reduction in the value of agricultural production due to
farmers changing to a more flood tolerant and low yielding cropping pattern in response to more frequent
and deeper flooding; and (f) costs to repair sections of the BRE breached by river-bank erosion that would
not be necessary with the project. Alternative benefits include: (i) increased efficiencies and effectiveness
of water sector projects as a result of the introduction of sound water sector planning; (ii) enhanced
institutional capability for project construction supervision, financial control, and for operation and
maintenance; and (iii) avoidance of periodic traffic disruption caused by the flooding of the access roads to
the Jamuna Bridge, and the consequent effects on the regional economy.
4.2    Project benefits for the Sirajganj project are estimated on the assumption that, in the absence of the
project, the present system of ad hoc embankment retirements would continue, with eight retirements
expected to be required over a 30 year period. At Sirajganj, the BRE is assumed to be breached early in
the project period causing severe damage to the town. Since the BRE would have to be retired behind the
town, it would be exposed to regular annual flooding. For the Sariakandi/ Mathurapara sub-project,
however, in the absence of the project it is assumed not to be possible to retire the BRE following its
imminent breach because the Bangali river, in effect, acts as a physical boundary for any retirement. Thus,
the BRE's hinterland would be subject to regular annual flooding from the open breach. This would
continue for several years until the land between the Bangali and the Brahmaputra is eroded and a merger
occurs. This event would result in exacerbated regional flooding in the subsequent years.
Erosion Loses Prevented
4.3    The project's river-bank protection works would protect a population of about 125,500 people
from severe property loss, impoverishment and physical displacement as a result of bank erosion, and



37
7,800 ha including the urban and pern-urban areas of Sirajganj (population 104,000) and the semi-rural
areas of Sariakandi and Mathurapara. The works at Sirajganj would also reclaim a 25 ha area for public
use and squatter resettlement. Surveys indicate that the total property loss prevented within a five-year
period would include about 16,400 masonry ("pucca") houses and shops, 75 manufacturing enterprises and
at least 9,000 traditional ("katcha") dwellings. Similarly, protection would be extended to about 140 public
buildings, 70 km of surfaced and unsurfaced roads (including 40 small bridges and culverts), 0.5 km of
railway line and two railway bridges, and about 72 km of telephone and power lines. A severe impact on
the regional economy caused by the loss of Sirajganj town would be prevented.
Prevention of Severe Local Flood Dama2es
4.4    The protection works at Sirajganj would prevent, over a 30 year period, an estimated 8-9 instances
of embankment breaching along a 16-19 km section of the BRE and the damages that would ensue (paras.
1.16-1.21). These breaches could adversely affect the livelihood and damage the property of about 30,000
towvnspeople and about 1,000 rural dwellers. Thc Sirajganj sub-project would also prevent less serious
damage to crops, property and infrastructure over an area of 500-3,000 ha which would result from
flooding beyond the vicinity of severe breaches. Since the Sirajganj BRE cannot be retired or realigned, in
the event of a breach caused by the failure of the town's existing revetment, the embankment would have to
be partially realigned behind the town, thus exposing it to direct flooding. Consequently, it is estimated
that, in the absence of the project, an area of between 150 ha and 600 ha would be without flood protection
each year in the rural area near the town as the BRE is systematically retired. At Sariakandi/Mathurapara,
the severe damage resulting from one BRE breach would be prevented, protecting about 23,500 people.
Prevention of Re2ional Flood Damazes Behind the BRE
4.5    The project would prevent the breach of the Sariakandi BRE that is expected to occur within the
next five years, and wvhich would bc quickly followed by the merger of the Bangali and Brahmaputra-
Jamuna nrvers (map IBRD 25222). The wvorks at Sariakandi and Mathurapara would protect an area of at
least 300,000 ha behind the BRE in the Karatoa-Bangali river system's floodplain from the hazards of
deeper annual inundation as a result of the perennial spillage from the Brahmaputra-Jamuna River into the
Bangali River (paras. 1.19 and 1.20). This incremental inundation could be as much as 2.5 m in some
areas during years of high flood levels in the Brahmaputra-Jamuna. The protected area includes about
100,000 ha which has been protected from flood hazards since the completion of the BRE in the late 1960s.
Preventing the merger and augmented flowvs in the Bangali River would also prevent the erosion of land that
would result from the further meandering of the Bangali channel in response to greater flows.
4.6    Estimates of housing protected from increased potential flood damage in the affected floodplain
behind the BRE by the Sariakandi/Mathurapara sub-project include 160,000 modem and semi-modem
houses and over 104,000 traditional dwellings. The transportation infrastructure protected from greater
vulnerability to flood damage includes about 600 km of metalled roads, 120 km of unmetalled roads,
1,400 km of village roads and about 60 km of railway lines. The road network serving the Jamuna Bridge
near Sirajganj would also be protected from inundation caused by augmentation of the Bangali River's
flood discharge. There would also be greater protection against crop damage in the area behind the BRE.
On an incremental area of about 100,000 ha, farmers would not reduce agricultural production because the
risk of flooding would be avoided. The direct beneficiaries of the flood prevention benefits of the project
would be the estimated 2-3 million people living in the potentially affected area. Regression of the regional
economy to a state comparable with the physical environment existing in the 1950s, prior to the BRE's
construction, would be prevented.



38
Employment Benefits
4.7    By protecting the built-up areas of Sirajganj and Sariakandi from erosion damage, the project
would protect formal and non-formal wage-earners and entrepreneurs against temporary loss of
employment and income as a result of destruction of manufacturing establishments and commercial
enterprises. It is estimated that about 25,000 and 4,300 wage-earners in Sirajganj and Sariakandi,
respectively, would be affected and that it would take these wage-earners several months to find altemative
sources of employment and income. This hiatus would constitute a significant loss of value added in the
local economy. The prevention of an adverse change in cropping pattern (para. 4.5) would maintain the
employment of hired labor needed for the current labor-intensive cropping pattern. Fabrication of concrete
blocks for the proposed works is a labor-intensive activity which could add new, albeit temporary, jobs in
the vicinity of the project sites and at the many brick kilns in the region. Consultants have estimated that the
employment generated by the project during the construction period would be about 40,000 person-years
over a three year period.
Income Distribution Effects and Poverty Alleviation
4.8    The project would have a broadly neutral effect on income distribution initially as protection from
erosion and flooding would be provided to both the rich and the poor. However, there is a strong
correlation between vulnerability to erosion or flood damage and income levels. Experience in Bangladesh
shows that although high income groups lose considerable assets by erosion and sustain major financial
damages as a result of BRE breaching, their ability to recover is relatively high and rapid. It is the lower
income groups whose recovery is much slower and often only partial. Marginal farmers, in particular,
having once lost their smallholdings due to erosion, or being forced to sell land as a result of financial
difficulties caused by floods, never recover, migrate elsewhere and often become paupers and squatters.
The project's regional flood protection benefits would therefore be particularly important to sharecroppers,
landless families and marginal female-headed households.
Strengthening National Water Planning
4.9    Many millions of people are affected annually by flood damage, river erosion and periodic
droughts. Most of these people are in the lowest national income groupings, many of them are women and
landless, and thus sound water planning leading to good water projects would have direct impacts on
poverty alleviation. Over the longer term, demand for water in Bangladesh will increase rapidly in the
future as the population is projected to increase by 67 percent or 72 millions by year 2025, and much of the
increased population will become urbanized. Sound water planning and management is critical for the
continued and accelerated growth of the agricultural sector and environmental management.  It is
particularly important to design investments for agricultural growth in ways to avoid damage to fisheries,
which provide the main source of animal protein in the Bangladeshi diet. In particular, the poorest rely
almost entirely on subsistence fisheries for their protein. It will also become increasingly important to
provide safe water supplies and protection from erosion and flooding of essential infrastructure, urban and
industrial areas required to secure a growing commercial and industrial base. The Bank's 1994 economic
report" identifies breaking out of low aggregate demand by increased investment as the most important
macroeconomic challenge facing Bangladesh. While a major emphasis is to stimulate private investment,
efficient public investments in water, flood management and sanitation services can be a significant factor
The World Bank,: "Bangladesh: From Stahillzation to Crowth" Report 12724-BD, March 1994



39
in creating the necessary conditions for attracting both domestic and foreign investment. The proposed
project will assist GOB to develop water strategies that focus clearly on facilitating and anticipating
structural changes in the Bangladesh economy, institutionalize and operationalize lessons learned from FAP
studies, and through its integrated and participatory approach, avoid the harmful externalities and public
resistance associated with many earlier water sector projects
B. Economic Analysis
Method
4.10   Details of the computation of project benefits are in Annex 8. The basis of the computation is the
estimation of damages caused by bank erosion and flooding that will not occur after the project's
investments have been made and properly maintained. Flood damages are generated by hydrological
phenomena with a knowvn probability derived from historical data (e.g., flood levels in the Brahmaputra
River). The annual crop, property and infrastructure damage caused by regional flooding through BRE
breaches, and the augmentation of flows in the Bangali River induced by its merger with the Brahmaputra,
were estimated in a regional simulation model based on data for the monsoons of 1986-1989. These years
are typical of both normal and major flood flows in the Brahmaputra and the Karatoa-Bangali river system.
Thbe simulation fumished estimates of the timing, depths and area of flooding as a result of breaches at
Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajganj, and for the Bangali-Brahmaputra merger. The flood damages
avoided are the weighted averages of damages based on flood probabilities.
4.11   The magnitude and timing of bank erosion is much more uncertain. The estimation of the
economic benefits with lower bank erosion wvas accordingly done from studies of past erosion and of the
1992 planform of the river-bankline at the project sites. The estimates of the potential total area eroded
without the project are based on these studies.
Principal Assumptions and Economic Parameters
4.12   The principal assumptions and economic parameters (Annex 8) underlying the estimates of benefits
and costs are as follows. In general, the financial input and output prices used were based on 1991 studies
of the project region and updated to 1994 prices; the financial prices were then converted to economic
prices, using specific Conversion Factors (CFs) for each good established by the FAP "Guidelines for
Project Assessment. "
(a)    Decrease in Agricultural Production. Agricultural production would decrease in the
absence of the project due to: (i) of crop and livestock output lost to flooding; and (ii)
changes in cropping pattern in anticipation of more frequent and deeper flooding.
Estimates of the reduction in agricultural production are based on crop budgets for the
present and expected future cropping patterns in the northwest region's riparian districts
along the right bank of the Brahmaputra River.
(b)    Property and Infrastructure Damages. Property and infrastructure damages include
public and private buildings, roads, and railways. The financial value of all categories of
identified property and infrastructure threatened with destruction by erosion during the
period 1996-2001 is their full replacement cost based on Local Government Engineering



40
Bureau standard costs. Severe flood damage to buildings was estimated as 50% of
replacement value: the value of infrastructure destroyed is its full economic replacement
cost. Due to the uncertainties in forecasting BRE breaches 6 to 30 years hence, severe
flood damages to property and infrastructure at breach locations are calculated on the
basis of damage per ha. Partial flood damage to property and infrastructure caused by
regional flooding was also based on the application of unit area losses.
(c)    Land Values. The economic prices of agricultural land are equal to the net present value
of the economic gross margin to crop production over 30 years at a 12% discount rate.
The financial prices of urban and peri-urban land were estimated from representative land
price data. The economic prices of such land are equal to their financial values.
(d)    Excluded Benefits. The benefit stream does not include the benefits from avoiding
incremental damages to crops, property and infrastructure normally subject to flooding
hazards within the Karatoa-Bangali floodplain. Similarly, the impact of traffic disruption
caused by flooding and its effect on the regional economy was not quantified.
Investment and O&M Costs
4.13   All direct costs of project works in the Sirajganj and Sariakandi/Mathurapara sub-project sites,
and all indirect costs incurred by BWBD in respect of those sub-project sites, are included in the rate of
return calculations. The direct costs include civil works, operations and maintenance, and engineering
supervision. These allow for two replacements of all O&M specialized equipment during the project period
of 30 years, and possible construction of additional protection works upstream of the project sites about
four years after completion of the proposed protection works. Although not included in the financing plan
of the project, the inclusion of these additional protection works in the economic analysis is considered
prudent in view of the uncertainty of future erosion rates and patterns. Transfer payments for land
acquisition, taxes and duties, and price contingencies were excluded from the economic investment costs.
The estimated foreign exchange component of all investment costs is based on calculations of the average
foreign exchange requirements for skilled and unskilled labor, machinery and equipment, cement, brick,
geotextiles, transport, storage, housing, and surveys. No costs have been included for NWP activities or
for improvements in BWDB's operations and communications as these are spread over much of the country
and are not directly related to the operation.
4.14   Environmental Externalities.  As described in paras 2.31 and 2.32, the environmental
externalities of the project are very localized and transient; the majority of impacts being associated with
the three-year construction period. The project does not destroy natural habitats, and the open-water
capture-fisheries resources in the Brahmaputra river, while displaced a hundred or so meters from the shore
by the turbidity generated during construction during the dry season, will not be affected by the project.
Physical access to the water for bathing, trade, navigation and fisheries will be temporarily displaced to
locations several hundred meters upstream and downstream of the project due to construction activities, but
such activities in the project area are already adversely affected by river-bank instability caused by erosion.
In consequence, because tiiese uses are not curtailed, such impacts were not included in the economic
analysis. The fisheries benefits arising from the construction of the fish-pass in the realigned BRE cannot
be quantified and were omitted from the benefit stream.
4.15   Project Fiscal Impact. While in the short-run this project will add to the GOB's development
expenditure for erosion and flood protection, the chronic loss of public infrastructure to erosion and



41
property damage caused by flooding that would occur without the project - averaging about US$1.7 million
per year once the project is built (Annex 8) - will more than offset the cost of operation and maintenance.
At Sirajganj, land values and hence tax revenues, will increase substantially for the 25 ha area reclaimed
because it will be transformed from poor quality agricultural land to high value, flood free land for
commerce and housing. The annualized O&M costs represent about 4% of the FY94 O&M allocation for
BWDB. GOB has been meeting its undertaking under the Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2099-BD) to
increase allocations to BWDB's O&M budget by 10% annually (net of inflation). The overall GOB
financial allocation for BWDB's maintenance works (excluding work financed under the food-for-work
programn) has increased nine-fold since FY 1989. The national water planning component will generate
water sector projects that will reduce the need for GOB fiscal support because they would incorporate
socially acceptable and environmentally sustainable designs, and would benefit from enhanced beneficiary
participation in their O&M.
C. Economic Rate of Return
4.16   Economic analyses were carried out separately for the Sirajganj and Sariakandi/Mathurapara sub-
projects, based on the benefit categories described in para.4.12. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
project is 39%, and those for the Sirajganj and Sariakandi/Mathurapara sub-projects are 45% and 35%,
respectively. At a 12% discount rate, the net present value (NPV) of project incremental benefits is
US$62.2 million and those of Sirajganj and Sariakandi/Mathurapara are US$21.6 million and US$40.6
million, respectively.
D. Proiect Risks
4.17   Proiect Risks.  The operation is subject to several risks: (a) delayed land acquisition and
procurement for civil works; (b) the unavoidable risk that, during the project life, major flood flow
velocities and water levels could exceed the design criteria; (c) the risk of construction cost overruns and
contractors' financial claims; (d) the risk that poor standards of operation and maintenance could jeopardize
the works and adequate funding may not be allocated to the O&M Unit for execution of timely routine and
preventative maintenance upon termination of the project's O&M support component; (e) the risk that
mismanagement of future water sector investment, operation and management could jeopardize project
sustainability; and (f) the risk that continued water sector refonn and revitalized national water planning
fails to achieve a portfolio of projects which are institutionally, environmentally, socially, financially and
economically sustainable.
(a)    Delayed Land Acquisition and Procurement.  This would result in an inadequate
preparatory period for the contractor and consequent loss of the 1996/1997 construction
season. Failure to complete the bank protection works at Sariakandi-Mathurarpara by
June 1998 would significantly increase the risk of erosion of the remaining land separating
the Brahmaputra and Bangali rivers and greatly increase project costs. Delays beyond five
years could nullify the efficacy of the project as the Bangali may by then have become an
established distributary of the Brahmaputra-Jamuna river.  The project preparation
schedule has addressed the implementation delay risk by advance procurement and the risk
of delayed land acquisition through an agreed timetable and the fair and generous
provisions of the Resettlement Plan. Risks of claims due to failure to provide contractors
with timely possession of work sites have been addressed by related credit conditionality.



42
(b)    Major Flood and Erosion Damage. Floods could overtop the river-bank protection
works and cause either major structural damage or failure, and the high water velocities
associated with such a flood could undercut the revetment through the development of
scour holes in the river bed. Erosion could form embayments which outflank the works
thus nullifying their protection. To minimize risk, several physical and mathematical
models were applied to a 25 year simulation of local hydrology and river morphology to
determine flood and scour design events, and the upstream effects on water levels of the
constriction in the width of the Brahmaputra-Jamuna caused by the Jamuna Multi-Purpose
Bridge and earthquake hazard were taken into account. The morphology of the river was
extensively monitored and erosion trends have been determined from the analysis of maps
since 1830 and satellite imagery since 1973. In consequence, the civil works have been
designed to cope with historic erosion patterns and floods I m above the 1 in 100 year
flood level, and for scour depths 10 m greater than that likely to occur in 1 in 100 years.
The materials to be used in the river revetment works conform to the best international
design practice and quality assurance monitoring will be a major component of
construction management.
(c)    Construction Cost Overruns.  Past experience has demonstrated that most BWDB
projects have suffered from severe cost overruns due to: (a) inappropriate design; (b)
inexperienced contractors; (c) insufficient funding to complete projects on time; and (d)
poor construction supervision. To ensure construction standards and timely completion,
prequalified international contractors have bid for the construction contracts under ICB
conditions, and an expatriate consultant firm will be appointed as the Engineer. In
addition, the operation includes provisions to improve BWDB's operational efficiency and
the transparency of its accounting systems.
(d)    Risks of Inadequate Operation and Maintenance. The physical design and materials
used in the river-bank protection works are new to Bangladesh and there is a risk that they
would not be properly maintained. Inadequate financing of O&M would reduce the life of
the investments requiring premature rehabilitation. O&M sustainability risks are mitigated
by the funding, establishment and training of a project dedicated O&M Unit. The
annualized O&M costs represent about 4% of the FY94 O&M allocation for BWDB. To
counter the risk of inadequate post-project support of the O&M Unit it was agreed with
GOB that they would hold annual consultations with IDA concerning the level of
expenditures required for O&M of the works constructed, but our ability to enforce such
agreements after project completion will be limited primarily to the leverage we can
exercise in connection with future operations. However, it is very encouraging that GOB
has been meeting their agreement in connection with the Systems Rehabilitation Project
(CR. 2099-BD) to increase its budgetry allocation for O&M by 10% per year (net of
inflation). The overall GOB financial allocation for BWDB's maintenance works
(including work financed under the food-for-work program) has increased nine-fold since
FY 1989.
(e)    Water Sector Reform and Planning. There is a risk that GOB might not continue with
the water sector reform efforts once this loan is approved, nor give WARPO the
independence and support it will need to ensure objective planning. A clear mandate is
required to revitalize WARPO as the apex body for national water planning, upgrade and
enhance its technical capability for multi-disciplinary planning, absorb continuing FAP
planning within WARPO, and clearly limit the role of BWDB in sectoral planning. Failure



43
to ensure plan review by independent experts, or an unwillingness to discuss these plans
with stakeholders, the public and the NGO community could result in plans and projects
which are technically non-viable, and socially and environmentally unacceptable. The
GOB's approval of the Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy clearly
demonstrates that they are committed to continued water sector reform efforts and rational
and transparent planning. They have re-established WARPO as the apex national water
planning organization which will integrate the findings of FAP and continuing FAP studies
within the national water planning framework. During negotiations, GOB agreed to
establishment of a Water Policy Advisory Group to work with MoWR and an independent
Panel of Experts, appointment of key WARPO multi-disciplinary staff as regular
employees; and to the appointment of an international consulting firm to assist WARPO
through training in modern planning techniques. The desire within the GOB for bankable
water sector projects arising from FAP studies, and the strong position taken internally by
the NGOs and externally by the donors for reformed multi-disciplinary procedures in water
sector planning and project selection, increases the likelihood of the program's success. A
major step in this new approach to water sector planning is that GOB is placing the
Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy before an intemational conference of
development partners, NGOs and the public in late November 1995 to reach a consensus
on the strategy and the next steps, and this gives further indication that GOB's commitment
to the program is strong.
E. Sensitivity Analysis
4.18   The economic analysis of the river-bank protection component has been supplemented with one
that considers project risks. Several tests have been conducted to determine ERR sensitivity to: (a) delays
in project benefits resulting from slow implementation; and (b) increases in project costs resulting from
inefficient management, higher than predicted rates of river-bank erosion, delays over land acquisition and
procurement, and shortage of counterpart funds. Effects of these risks on the project's ERR are shown in
Table 4.1.
4.19   The aggregate project return is not made unacceptably low by a one or two- year delay in obtaining
benefits, but the ERR of the Sirajganj sub-component falls to quite low levels with a two or three-year
delay. At a 3 year delay, the aggregate return is 13%. These results underscore the neccessity for a speedy
project completion. The aggregate return falls to 23% with a 25% cost increase and to 16% with a 50%
increase. The effect of cost overruns at Sirajganj is particularly strong, as a 50% increase would render
that sub-project economically non-viable. Increases in project costs are most likely to occur because of
substantial river-bank erosion and scour which would occur if the project start-up is delayed by
procurement problems or difficulties over land acquisition, hence the emphasis given to these subjects in
project design.
Additional Protection Works
4.20   Projections of future annual bank erosion are based on historic averages. However, the formation
of new chars upstream of the project works may accelerate erosion and require additional protection works
in the future. This contingency could require a third revetment north of Kalitola Groyne at Sariakandi to
prevent a merger with a nearby meander loop of the Bangali river. At Sirajganj, this would require
rehabilitation and extension of the Salibari Groyne several km upstream of the existing Ranigram Groyne.
The costs of possible second phase works were therefore included in the sensitivity analysis, although they



44
are not included in the financing plan of the project. As seen in Table 4.1, additional costs for protection
works at Sirajganj would reduce the estimated ERR to 40%. Additional works at Sariakandi/Mathurapara
would reduce the estimated ERR to 28%. The corresponding value for the entire project would be 32%.
Table 4.1: Sensitivity Analysis (ERR)
(%)
SIRJGANJ              SARIAKANDI-                TOTAL
MATHURAPARA
...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Baseline Analysis          45                      35                      39
RISK
A. Delay in project benefits (years)
1                          18                      26                      23
2                           10                     22                       17
3                           6                       19                      13
B Additional protection works             40                      28                      32
C. Increase in total project cost
25%                          19                      25                      23
50%                          10                      19                      16
5. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOB on the following points:
(a)  Land  acquisition  schedule and  procedures including  resettlement and  compensation
arrangements which would be carried out in accordance with a Resettlement Action Plan
(paras. 2.16 and 2.17);
(b)  Establishment and staffing of the O&M  Unit, appointment of maintenance support
consultants and procurement of survey and maintenance equipment (para 2.22);
(c)  Appointment of contract management and supervision consultants with terms of reerence
acceptable to IDA not later than the date of signature of the first river-bank protection
contract, and secondment of selected BWDB personnel to the consultants' supervision team
(para. 2.25);
(d)  Appointment of key WARPO multi-disciplinary staff by June 30, 1996 (para. 2.29);
(e)  Appointment, by April 30, 1996, of a consulting firm and members of the Panel of Experts to
assist in strengthening national water planning and to prepare a National Water Management
Plan by June 30, 1998 (para. 2.30);
(f)  Hold annual consultations on expenditure required for O&M of project works and provision
of adequate funds for this purpose during the project and after completion (para. 2.37);
(g)    The Project Proforma for the national water planning component of the project would be
approved by February 28, 1996 (para. 2.37);



45
(h)  Limiting contractors under NCB tenders for civil works construction to contractors registered
as Class A (or the equivalent) for completion of earthworks in no more than two contracts
and prequalification of contractors for the fish-pass structure (para. 2.39);
(i)  All disbursement applications for civil works, resettlement or operations and maintenance
activities to be certified by the implementation support or maintenance support consultants
(para. 2.41);
(?j) Arrangements with respect to project accounting and auditing (para. 2.44);
(k)  The constitution and meetings of project coordinating committees (para. 3.6); and
(I)  Arrangements for and a schedule of implementation reviews (para. 3.10).
5.2    Conditions of Effectiveness would be GOB approval of Project Proforma for the components to be
implemented by BWDB and the MoWR approval of the draft WARPO Project Proforma (2.37).
5.3    With the above conditions and agreements, the Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit to the
People's Republic of Bangladesh of SDR 78.4 million (US$121.9 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms with a maturity of 40 years.
Keith Pitman
M:AKEITHPITSAR2DOC
October 28, 1995 03:57 PM



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 11
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Design Considerations and Criteria for River Bank Revetments
A. Local River Bank Stabilization Structures
Functional Considerations
1.    River bank stabilization, whether by groynes or revetments, is appropriate at areas
where the consequences of continuing erosion are particularly serious. Examples of such cases
are Sirajganj, where the existing revetment and groyne, themselves examples of river bank
stabilization, are at risk of failure and further measures are required. The approach adopted will
depend on the degree to which stabilization is to be imposed. At the most rigorous, the bankline
is to be completely defined and for this purpose some form of revetment is the appropriate
treatment; this is usually applicable to a relatively short stretch of bankline (e.g., up to 2 kIn)
where a concentrated area is to be protected, such as at Sirajganj. If the exact bankline
configuration is not important but there are fixed limits on the extreme positions that the bankline
may adopt relative to the mean line (such as at Sariakandi/ Mathurapara), then some form of
intermittent erosion resistant structure is appropriate. This may take the form of groynes or
revetments.
Disadvantages of Groynes
2.     Groynes are defined as hardened structures that protrude into the main channel, with the
primary objective of deflecting erosive currents away from the bankline. By their nature,
groynes move the centroid of the channel away from the original bankline and thus, unless
complementary groynes are provided on the opposite bank, erosion of the other bank will usually
take place to an equal extent. The concept that groynes result in a net land gain may therefore be
illusory. Groynes are in general significantly costly to build because they have to be constructed
in deep flowing water and also because their flanks are exposed to high velocity flows during
high river stages. The protection offered by a groyne is generally not more than a distance equal
to 1.0-1.5 times its length on both its upstream and downstream sides, i.e., only 2.0-3.0 times its
length. Extensive bank protection therefore requires a series of groynes.
Advantages of Revetments
3.   Revetments differ in concept in that there is no attempt to actively deflect the river. The
objective is to hold the bankline at suitable intervals and to allow it to take up its natural shape in
between. Until bank erosion ceases, there would be some continuing loss of land but this will be
substantially less than would have occurred without the intervention. The spacing between the
revetments will be deternined by the maximum depth of embayment that may be permitted
between the structures. Revetments are typically constructed with their river face in line with the
existing bank: this simplifies construction. After an upstream embayment has formed, the
hydraulic conditions at the upstream portion (nose) of the revetment will become much the same
as that of a groyne, but the exposure to the highest velocity flows will normally be limited to the
nose alone, since there is no exposed flank to protect. Provision must, however, be made to



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 11
prevent out-of-bank flow from scouring a channel on the land side of the hardened structure
which could result in outflanking. This is most simply and inexpensively achieved with an earth
embankment perpendicular to the revetment crest, known as a "cross-bar", with light protection
on the slopes against wave action.
Performance of Previous River Training Works
4.     On the Brahmaputra, a considerable investment has been made in bank stabilization
measures over the past 20 years. Although now at risk, the only example of relative success is
the Sirajganj town protection consisting primarily of multiple layers of randomly dumped
concrete cubes. The protection of Sariakandi by means of the Kalitola groyne may be considered
a partial success in that the erosion was controlled for long enough to see the main point of attack
move further downstream. Both these structures suffer from the absence of a durable filter layer.
Past works have been only partially successful and the inference is that the approach to design
and construction currently followed will suffice for moderately aggressive conditions, but will not
provide the level of performance required under the more severe conditions. In this respect, it is
significant that the size of protective block required to resist flow drag was inadequate. The high
velocities that can be induced round the noses of groynes and the upstream terminations of
revetments therefore demand larger blocks than could be easily manhandled. This has not been
possible in the past due to the equipment limitations of local contractors.
5.     The size of blocks is not the only potential cause of failure. The uniformly graded sand
of which the bank and bed is composed has very low strength and transport resistance. The
turbulent flow induced by the protective blocks will tend to draw the sand easily through the
coarse material of dumped blocks; pore pressures in the bank during falling stages will
exacerbate this tendency resulting in rapid slumping of the underlying material and its consequent
exposure to the full force of the current as the protective layer subsides. Traditional brick
aggregate filters would be ineffective under these conditions, even if they could be placed to a
specification. Finally, there is the major problem of controlling the distribution of blocks when
placed in depths of more than 1 Om and with local flow velocities of more than 1.0 m/s and high
turbidity. Because of the high material cost, there was a natural tendency to place only the
minimum number of blocks necessary. Under such conditions, uneven coverage is almost
inevitable, and it requires only one exposed area to initiate a progressive failure of the whole
system. Given these constraints and difficulties, the low success rate for structures built in
accordance with the normal BWDB practice is only to be expected.
B. Design Concepts
Requirements for Improved Performance
6.     The essential features required for improved performance of revetments include:
(a)   A formed slope that is designed to be stable under normal combined earthquake
loading and bank groundwater drawdown conditions.
(b)   A geotextile fabric laid on the slope that is designed to permit drainage of the
underlying soil while preventing migration of soil particles under differential
pressures induced by wave action, turbulent river currents and soil-water flow.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 11
(c)   An armor layer designed to hold the geotextile firmly in place and therefore capable
of resisting the forces induced by high velocity flow and wave action. The armor
must be sufficiently robust and durable to withstand abrasion due to sediment laden
water and armor element movement.
(d)   An apron, commonly called a falling apron or launching apron, consisting of armor
material placed at the toe of the slope. This acts as a stockpile that is drawn upon
through a natural bed armoring process when unusually deep scour develops off the
toe of the revetment.
Structural Durability
7.    It is self-apparent that, for the conditions encountered on the Brahmaputra, designing
bank stabilization works for performance under anything other than severe conditions, cannot be
cost effective. By definition, the locations that are identified as requiring priority attention are
those where the hydrodynamic and morphological conditions are in, or close to, the severe
category. For such works to survive for even one season, the design must be such that the costs
involved will be measured in hundreds of millions of Taka, or millions of dollars. With this level
of investment, the works can only be justified if they have a life expectancy measured in tens of
years. This in turn implies that the works must be designed to survive under the most severe
conditions that may reasonably be expected to occur during that period. The highly mobile river
bed and the potentially high flow velocities combine to forrn a demanding environmnent in which
to construct works, and the design must reflect these conditions in order that the structure may
meet the functional requirements in practice. The works were, therefore, designed in such a
manner that they will perform satisfactorily under the worst combination of hydrodynamic and
morphological conditions that may be experienced for a hydrological event with a 100 year
return period' exceeded once in a hundred years on the average, over a design life of at least
20-30 years, and require relatively low maintenance during this period. This period was used in
calculating the probability of exceedance of design conditions and for assigning design values to
key parameters such as scour depth and near bank velocity. Because of the turbidity of the
Brahmaputra water, even at times of low flow, and the rapid deposition of sediment during flow
recession, much of the works will remain invisible under normal circumstances. It is therefore
particularly important that the portion of the works below low water level is robust and that if
local failure does occur, this does not lead to rapid progressive failure. Some displacement of
armor material (e.g., concrete blocks) is always expected to occur, but with timely routine and
periodic maintenance, progressive failure is not expected.
Use of Local Resources for Construction and O&M
8.     Where possible and practicable, the designs for the works allowed for a maximum use of
local labor and materials. Since the routine maintenance will certainly be geared to local labor
and material, this requirement has led to the selection of brick aggregate concrete blocks as the
preferred principal material for the armor layer for all slope protection exposed to the main river
flow. The large scale manufacture and handling of blocks by labor intensive means is well
established and appropriate for the smaller size (55 cm). For the larger sizes (72 and 85 cm),
some form of mechanical handling will be required, but the casting can remain labor intensive.
Alternative forms of armor material that would be functionally appropriate include boulders,
1 A one hundred year return period event means that the events magnitude would only be



ANNEX 1
Page4of 11
quarried rock and stone aggregate concrete blocks. Boulders are available from the Shylhet area
of Bangladesh, but there are only limited quantities of the larger sizes required to satisfy the
Brahmaputra conditions and this cannot be considered as a reliable source for this scale of
works. Quarried rock is only available from India, Bhutan or further afield and the uncertainty
of supply has to be offset against the greater durability potential, and possibly marginally better
performance, of rock. Stone aggregate concrete has a higher density than concrete made with
brick aggregate: block dimensions can therefore be reduced and some savings in cement thereby
achieved, but this advantage will normally be offset by the higher cost of the imported stone.
9.    In situations where the forces acting on the revetment are less severe and maintenance is
more easily undertaken, for example on the slopes of cross-bars, brick in wire baskets would be
used. This form of protection makes maximum use of local material and resources but is not
suitable for the more arduous conditions to which the main bank revetment is exposed. The other
major elements of revetment construction are the supply and laying of the geotextile filter and the
dredging. Both these require heavy plant and, in the case of the geotextile, imported material.
Planned Maintenance
10.    Although the design of the revetment and other works is in accordance with criteria that
are chosen to minimize maintenance, it is anticipated that some local failures will occur that
require timely maintenance. It has been assumed that after the first season of exposure to
monsoon flows it will be necessary to place an additional 5% of blocks where weaknesses have
been exposed. Thereafter, the replacement rate should drop to about 1% or 2% per year, with a
periodic maintenance requiring about 5% of blocks every 5-6 years. The source of blocks for the
first year will be the stockpile prepared by the contractor as per the requirements of the bid
documents.
Mooring Facilities
11.    Existing arrangements for mooring vessels of all sizes from cargo vessels and ferries to
country boats are of a rudimentary nature. Ferries have pontoons moored to the bank to provide
an intermediate platform of fixed height relative to water level, but other vessels typically moor
up against the natural bank, wherever the deep water channel happens to be located at the time.
At Sirajganj this informal mooring extends from the most downstream portion of the existing
bank revetment for a distance of about 1 km. The standard revetment design includes country
boat steps. For the continuous revetment at Sirajganj, country boat steps are provided at
approximately 500m intervals in addition to the passenger ferry terminal which will replace the
existing facility.



ANNEX 1
Page S of 11
C. Design Considerations
Geotechnical Factors
12.    Liquefaction. The river bank soils are primarily micaceous fine to medium silting
sands, loose near the surface, generally finest at the surface and becoming coarser with depth.
Previous geotechnical investigations have indicated that soils at Sirajganj and elsewhere along the
Brahmaputra were prone to liquefaction from design earthquakes to depths of 17m-21m. Loose,
fine, cohesionless deposits may also liquefy under non-dynamic loads, depending on their relative
density and initial state of stress. Investigations carried out for this project tend to confirm that
some strata are sufficiently loose and at an initial state of stress from which liquefaction could
ensue. The bulk of the data, however, shows the soils to be in a condition that is not conducive
to liquefaction occurring. For the conditions prevailing on the right bank of the Brahmaputra,
the relatively low risk of failure due to liquefaction would not appear to justify the technical
difficulties and high cost of densification.
13.    Pinin2 and Erosion. Seepage forces during periods when river levels are falling will
cause piping in the fine soils of the project sites unless suitable filters are provided. The most
essential area in need of a filter are the river bank slope areas where seepage forces are greatest
during the failing stage of the river. However, there will be seepage forces occurring down to the
river bed and pumping action due to turbulent flow around the block protection will induce
particle migration. Protection over the full length of the revetment is therefore required if
stability of the slope is to be assured. Under these circumstances there would appear to be no
alternative to the provision of a suitably designed geotextile filter: such filters have been
incorporated in the design of the works.
Availability of Materials
14.    The only potential construction materials that are readily available in the immediate
vicinity are the fine uniformly graded river sand and locally produced bricks.  Cement is
manufactured in Bangladesh, but for the quantities involved and the tight time schedules to be
met, it will be necessary to rely on imported cement. River-worn shingle and large cobbles are
available from the Panchargarh area in Bangladesh in quite large quantities although insufficient
for the proposed works. Various grades of stone and crushed rock are imported in large
quantities from India across the border at Hili. Geotextiles will have to be imported.
Morphological Considerations
15.    The morphological considerations fall into two main categories:
(a)   the range of bed bathymetry that may occur in the immediate vicinity of any river
training or bank stabilization works, particularly the maximum scour depth that
may develop; and
(b)   the dynamics of channel and bankline planform, which will determine the location
of works, their planform dimensions and the geometry of the structures'
terminations.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 11
The first of these categories has been investigated through a combination of bathymetric surveys
at the project sites at different times of the year, mathematical modeling, physical modeling and
analysis of morphological statistics.  The scope for statistical analysis is limited by the
availability and quality of data. However, sufficient data has been obtained for setting up and
verifying the mathematical and physical models, which were then used to extend the information
to cover specific situations of interest. The mathematical modeling has been used to gain clearer
understanding of the processes associated with bend and confluence scour and the bifurcation of
flow around chars. Physical modeling was used both to complement the modeling with regard to
the prediction of flow fields and amplification factors and to investigate effects such as the scour
associated with groynes and the stability of structural units. For the second category of
morphological considerations, the principal source of information was the analysis of historic
records, including naps dating back to 1830, and the more recent satellite imagery. The latter
provided an almost sequential data set for the period since 1973, which has proved invaluable for
char and bend evolution analysis. The maps provided the bankline movement data over the
longer period required in order to establish trends that are relevant to the timescale of the
intervention measures.
Construction "Windows"
16. The design and stabilization and training works must take into consideration their
constructability in the Brahmaputra river environment. In particular, it is important to determine
the period or "window" during which underwater construction can take place. Since the works
are to be constructed in flowing water in the vicinity of locations where active erosion is taking
place, this means that the local flow velocities will generally be high. To maintain a high level of
construction control in flow velocities which may exceed 3.5 m/s would make the task an order
of magnitude more difficult, and therefore the construction that much more costly, if not
impossible. The cross-sectional data that has been collected for the BRTS was therefore
analyzed to determine the period of time during which different flows would not be exceeded for
varying probabilities. It was found that for a mean channel velocity of 0.7 n/s, corresponding to
a maximum probable point velocity of about 1.4 m/s, the length of the period available for
underwater construction was between 150-200 days. In fact, it is found that even if a somewhat
larger velocity was considered acceptable this would make comparatively little difference to the
length of the "window".
Method of Construction
17.    The revetment cross-section has to satisfy the two requirements of working at not too
great a depth, and providing adequate protection against scour. The structures are protected
against scour by a falling (or launching) apron, i,e., armoring placed on the river bed, or at a
specific dredged level, and extending further into the river from the toe of the revetment. In the
event of scour occurring close to the structure, the "reservoir" of armor material will be displaced
and will form a protective layer on the scoured slope, inhibiting further erosion. The scoured
slope is expected to be of the order of one vertical: two horizontal, considerably steeper than the
formed slope of the structure (IV:3.5H). There is thus a balance to be struck between: (a)
stability of the structure, which would call for a deeper apron; (b) minimizing the height of the
steeper slope above maximum scour depth, and the practical difficulties in dredging at greater
depths;                                                                          and
(c) placing the geotextile at such depths, and retaining the necessary control over distribution of
armoring (which is more difficult at greater depths, especially considering the poor visibility



ANNEX I
Page7of 11
which will prevail). With an estimated scour depth of 29m below high flood level (HFL) near
revetment structures, the apron setting has been put at 19-20m below HFL. This means that
during the construction season when the river is low, dredging depth and the maximum working
depth will be of the order of 13-14m.
D. Design Criteria
Hydrological
18.    The standard hydrological design event is one with a 100 year return period. A 25 year
simulation was used to derive the design water levels at the project locations with specified
confidence limits. Such confidence limits do not, however, readily lend themselves to formal
statistical methods, and experience and judgment are required to arrive at a reasonable
assessment. Safety margins for the effects of random morphological processes (shifts of gauge
rating curve), errors in model calibration and under-estimation of extreme events owing to
shortness of records were considered. This provided a safety margin on these three counts of 40
cm for a I in 100 year event. This margin was included within the overall safety requirements,
including freeboard. The project revetments are therefore designed with the top of the crest wall
Im above High Flood Level. for the purposes of designing the works, it has been assumed that
the Jamuna Bridge will be built and the design water levels were modified accordingly. Low
Water Level (LWL) is defined as the lowest annual river level with a 30% probability of
occurrence, corresponding to a simulated discharge of 2 year return period. However, for
practical purposes, the water level of greater relevance is that which will not be exceeded for a
specific degree of probability over a reasonable construction period. For the design of the works,
this level has been taken as LWL+2m, which corresponds approximately to a 50% probability of
exceedance within a 160 day construction window. In practice, this means that there is a 50%
probability that work can be carried out in the dry season over a continuous period of 160 days.
Near Bank Velocity
19.    One of the most important design parameters for the bank stabilization works is the
maximum near bank velocity. This typically is the ruling criterion for the sizing of the armor
layer, the other criterion being resistance to wind-induced wave action. Based on the results of a
number of physical model tests and interpretation of mathematical model results, it has been
found that there is a relationship between the mean velocity in the river section as a whole and
the maximum velocity that can develop near the bank and around artificial projections such as
groynes. The results of these analyses are given in the table below.
Design Velocities
(Probability for exceedance of 100 year design event is 1% in pr ject lifetime (30 year)).
Type of Structure              Amplification Factor         Design Velocity (m/s)
Revetment straight section                       1.1                          3.7
Revetment upstream termination                   1.3                         4.4
Head of groyne*                                  1.4                         4.8
Including upstream termination at Ranigram Groyne, Sirajganj.



ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 11
The formula used for the design of armor material sizing for the proposed Jamuna Bridge guide
bunds has been used to determine armor size, and the results compared with those derived from
wave considerations. Only in the case of straight revetment did wave action prove the governing
criteria. At upstream terminations and groyne heads, the higher flow velocities become the
critical factor for armor sizing.
Wind Wave Action
20.   The second most important criterion governing the size of the material in the protective
layer for stabilization and training works is that the material must be able to resist the forces
induced by wind wave action. The formula developed by Pilarczyk was used to determine the
required size of armor units subject to wave action. A considerable amount of past data
collection and analysis was available. This has been reviewed and some further analysis carried
out on data from five meteorological stations, including Sirajganj, obtained from the Bangladesh
Meteorological Department. A reasonable consistency was found between the five sets of data,
and from analysis of the data, the design wave height was found to be Im with period 3.0
seconds.
Geotechnical
21.   The stability of the revetment section has been checked by slip circle analysis for both
static and seismic conditions.  For the purposes of pseudo-static analysis, a horizontal
acceleration of 0.15 g was used for this analysis. As, however, the design earthquake is
magnitude 7, a reduced factor of safety of 1.1 is acceptable, or 1.05 for a combination of
extreme events. For static loading conditions, including the scoured face at the foot of the
revetment, a factor of safety of 1.5 was applied.
22.   The falling apron setting level has been determined from a combination of slope stability
considerations, bearing in mind that the scour slope will be steeper than the profiled revetment
section, and a reasonable maximum dredging depth. From the results of numerous physical
model tests and reported experience in India and elsewhere, it has been concluded that it is
reasonable to assume that the slope of the launched apron is unlikely to be steeper than 1V:2H.
With this configuration and the base of the apron set at 1Om below LWL, it was found that a
lower revetment slope of lV:3.5H gave acceptable factors of safety. The upper slope, above
LWL+2m, had to be flattened to the same slope of IV:3.5V from the earlier design of IV:3.OH
following analysis of the piezometer data collected at Sirajganj over the full annual cycle of
water levels. These data shoved that during the falling stage the piezometric head in the more
clayey/silty strata of the bank could be as much as Im higher than the river water level for
considerable periods of time.
Morphological
23.    The morphological characteristics of the river that are of most direct concern for the
structural design bank stabilization works are:
(a)   The depth of scour that may be expected to occur in the immediate proximity of the
structure during its design life, with an approximately 1% combined exceedance
probability. This will determine the falling apron geometry and influence its setting
depth.



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 11
(b)   The planforms of embayments that may develop on the upstream and downstream
sides of a revetment or groyne and the velocity field associated with these
structures. These will determine the planform geometry of a revetment and its
associated cross-bar.
Each of these considerations are discussed below.
24.    Scour Depth. The assessment of maximum scour that can occur has been the subject of
several complementary studies, including: (a) physical model studies using mobile bed conditions
to investigate scour associated with groynes and other active forms of training works; (b) river
surveys of locations where active bank erosion is taking place; (c) mathematical model
simulation; (d) morphological model simulation for simple bends; and (e) analysis of BWDB
river cross-sectional data surveyed over a period of about 30 years. Analysis of these studies
points to the conclusion that the worst scour that can occur arises from exceptional combinations
of conditions associated with major anabranch confluences. The most severe condition is
associated with vortex shedding downstream of a groyne nose. It has been concluded that, based
on depth below the 100 year design flood level, satisfactory values for design purposes are 29m
for scour at the toe of a bank revetment, 33m at the nose of a groyne and 33m at the upstream
termination of a bank revetment. The falling apron is designed to distribute the equivalent of at
least two layers of armor material over the deformed slope face with full scour development.
Model tests and experience indicate that the redistributed armor material forms a remarkably
uniform single layer and it is reasonable to expect that there will, in practice, be an in-built
reserve of material that can be drawn upon in the unusual case of scour exceeding these design
values. The apron design adopted will, in theory, provide sufficient armor material for a single
layer over the complete surface for scour depth of 44m at the nose of a groyne and 33m at the toe
of a straight revetment.
25.    Embayment Planform. The second of the morphological design criteria presents a more
difficult problem because of the ever-changing conditions on the river and the absence of clear
behavioral trends. The location and planform of the works must take into consideration not only
the present conditions, but what may be expected to occur within the planning horizon for the
works concerned. In general, the location and the length of a revetment will be determnined by
two considerations: (a) providing direct protection to a specific object, such as a substantial town
or major infrastructure; and (b) minimizing the risk of outflanking. Both these are closely related
to the form and depth of embayment that could form. The location and length of the revetment
must be such that: protection is provided even with full embayment development, or at least such
that relatively low cost secondary works would be sufficient to prevent development of the
embayment beyond certain limits. Equally important is that the cross-bar should remain
functional under similar conditions. There is very little data on which to base an estimate of the
probable maximum embayment development upstream of a revetment. The approach adopted
has been to take the worst anabranch bend/embayments picked from the available satellite
imagery, and to use these as examples of the aspect ratio (depth to chord length) of a simple,
approximately symmetrical, embayment that can be expected to develop anywhere on the right
bank. The bends at Jalapur and Fulcharighat on the Brahmaputra right bank that developed
between 1984 and 1990 appear to be unusually severe cases and were used for this purpose in
the design.



ANNEX 1
Page lOof 11
Filter Layer Design
26.    The filter layer laid on the formed bank slope is seen as a crucial element of the
revetment and its absence in an effective form is thought to have been a major contributory cause
to the failure of many river training works constructed on the Brahmaputra in the past. Grading
requirements and the extreme difficulties of placing in flowing water effectively rule out mineral
filters. A material of proven performance and durability is required, which can be laid without
insurmountable practical difficulties. Geotextiles have been extensively used in other countries
for this purpose and under similar environmental conditions, and good guidelines for the design
and construction of revetments incorporating geotextiles have been published by PIANC (1987).
Advice, particularly regarding material properties, was sought from leading geotextile filter
manufacturers and the conclusions incorporated in the design and bid document specifications.
E. Proiect Revetment Structures
Layout in Plan
27.    For the reasons described above, "hard-point" revetment structures are the principal form
of river bank stabilization measure proposed for the works. Existing groynes at the project sites
would, however, be rehabilitated in conformnance with the design criteria. The layout of a typical
revetment hard-point for Sariakandi/Mathurapara is shown in Figure 1. The length of straight
revetment is such as to ensure that there will be an acceptably low risk of the embayment, or any
re-entry upstream of the revetment, threatening the integrity of the cross-bar. The cross-bar is
angled back in plan to decrease further the risk of erosion from the upstream side. The cross-bar
is lightly armored against wave action from out-of-bank flow by brick mattressing on its
upstream side, for the whole length back to the BRE, and for the lOOm nearest to the river bank
on the downstream side. The revetment is returned into the bank by upstream and downstream
terminations.  The upstream  termination and the length of straight revetment immediately
downstream of it will be subjected to higher flow velocities than the rest of the straight revetment
and the downstream termination, and hence heavier armoring is provided. The layout of the
proposed works at Sirajganj is shown in Figure 2.
Typical Revetment Section
28.    The essential features of the revetment to be determined by design are: crest level, slope,
geotextile filter membrane, armor material and falling apron. A typical revetment section is
shown in Figure 3. The crest level is determined from the 100 year return period water level,
derived from the modeling program with a l.Om allowance for freeboard. A single layer of
placed armoring extends from the concrete crest wall to the lowest water level likely to be
experienced during construction, namely LWL+2m. From that level to the apron setting depth,
armoring will be dumped to form the equivalent of two layers. The apron setting level has been
determined from considerations of slope stability and dredging depth. The quantity of armor
material in the apron is adequate to protect the scoured slope to design scour depth with a
thickness of armoring in excess of two layers. There is strong evidence that a geotextile
membrane under the apron would interfere with the launching mechanism leaving the geotextile
exposed. It is therefore not continued under the apron beyond the first 2m.



ANNEX I
Pae Il of 11
29.   Based on the flow velocity and wave considerations described above, the following sizes
have been drmined for concrete cubic block annoring using brick aggregate:
Noses of groynes                                                850 mm
Upstream tlminations                                            720 mm
Linear revetments and downstream trminations                    550 mm
The revetment desig provides for a choice to be made betwe three difrent armor matrils,
namely: concrete blocks with brick aggregat, concrete blocks with stone aggrpte, and quarried
rock.



ANNEX I
Figure 1
z
econstructioni of  ~
Kdhitola G oyne         .
Revelmed    rks
SARIAKA  Di           at Sariakand.
Future retired
flood embonkment
Revetment- Works
at Mothurapbro
0          I2km 
)         ~~SCALE         ,                 \       \\
+  MAT  APARA
Retired flood
embOankment
Layout of Works at Sariakandi & Mathuraoara



ANNEX I
Figure 2
R A  MA UrRA  Rv
lOOm           200m
Aoron                  Revtment   Mai  30m         ,Country boot steps
Storage area for concrete
Nominal bank line
',Downstream         I(0
<                            8             r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ermination
Upstrecm  terrminction                            CCro33 bOr
2
0
0
Retired embankment  I         I                                       c
0        100       200       300m.
SCA LE 
Typical Hard-Point and Cross-Bar



ANNEX I
Figure 3
0                         0
oi
o ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 _
_ 
TypialcRvetentlect                                    0
'4-
, .
z sclRv0mn   etc



ANI
Figure 4
Sectiorr A
Upstream rermination
Exisliria Ronigrom  B
3 toy,,
aec:tc.%              ~c~r
.          tLona rec1omczion jtew  'ie/rnenr
- lood embonkment/ 
!   _     400.M                              @Xs  ~~~~~~~~~~~Section O
SCALE
SIRAJGANJ        Ja:&\, Replocemenr
TOWN                   \ of existing
revetmen.6
Phase IA (PriorityWorks)
L-ayout ofWcrks zit Siraiganj
Ii
Layout of Warks at Sirajganj



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Design Considerations for BRE Retirement at Sariakandi
Functional Requirements
1.         The purpose of the BRE is to prevent over bank flow from the Brahmaputra entering an
area of about 240,000 ha on the right bank flood plain. Since the strip of flood plain is relatively long
and narrow, being on average only 15-25 km wide, the distance that the flood embankment is set back
from the river is clearly significant in terms of the area being promoted. The embankment is nominally
designed to provide protection against a flood event of 100 years return period: i.e., the top of the
embankment is set at the water level that could occur at any point with a frequency of one in 100 years
plus a freeboard of 5 ft (1 .5m) to cater for wave action and settlement of the crest level with time.
Construction Methods
2.         The BRE retirement at Sariakandi-Mathurapara would be carried out by a local contractor
selected by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). Labor intensive methods are likely to predominate,
although compaction should be undertaken by mechanical means, and mechanical earthmoving will help
to achieve homogeneity where mixing owing to local variability of material is required. The design
should, however, take into account the constraints which may be imposed by linited plant availability
and comparatively low standards of working practice. The embankment should be capable of retaining a
2m depth of water for a period of two months, despite lack of compaction and even lack of clod breaking.
Freeboard should be adequate to allow for any inadequacies of crest level control, and for the inevitable
settlement.
Protection Against Piping and Erosion
3.         The soils are inherently weak and erosion of embankments will occur from currents and
waves unless preventative measures are taken. Under certain circumstances, such as sustained high head
differences across the embankment, seepage forces could result in piping in these fine soils unless
precautions are taken. Good compaction of the soil is essential as this will simultaneously increase its
strength and reduce its permeability. Surprisingly, there are very few indications of damage by wave
action and no substantiated cases of piping on the BRE. Where significant wave damage has been
recorded, it is invariably associated with retired sections of the embankment where quality control has
been lax, side slopes are steep and no attempt has been made to establish grass cover. Positive measures,
therefore, need to be taken to encourage the growth of suitable vegetation in this zone-sugar cane or
vetiver grass would seem to be one of the more attractive possibilities.
Sources of Construction Materials
4.         Economic considerations rule out the use of other than local materials for embankment
construction. This need not, however, be a significant constraint for an embankment which generally
need not retain more than 3.5m depth of water. This has been bome out by the satisfactory geotechnical



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
performance of the original BRE, constructed from locally available material. Where there are
substantial deposits of consistently more sandy or more clayey soil, these can be used selectively to
improve the embankment stability. In general, the variability of the stratification is such that the
embankment will have to be treated as homogeneous, in which case the emphasis should be on ensuring
good mixing of the material to avoid flow concentrations.  This mixing is best achieved through
mechanical earthmoving. Borrow areas must be sited sufficiently far away from the toe of the
embankment so as not to affect the slope stability adversely. If excavated on the river-side, which is
usually favored for both social and financial considerations, the borrow pit must be made discontinuous
and stabilized by the planting of appropriate vegetation to prevent scour and channel evolution.
Construction Standards
5.         It has been noted that economic considerations will normally dictate that the embankment
be constructed as a homogeneous section using the locally available silty material. The performance of
the original BRE demonstrates that if the embankment is well constructed then it may be expected to
perform satisfactorily. Well constructed in this context means primarily that the material is properly
consolidated and that the cross-sectional profile is achieved. It is also desirable that the material should
be well mixed, unless larger uniform deposits make local zoning feasible. These considerations point
strongly to the use of mechanical plant for the construction of the embankment unless a very high level of
management and supervision can be achieved.
6.         With little opportunity to obtain soils from further afield, the best use must be made of the
material available locally. Organic material must be excluded, and organic or very silty layers in the
foundation must be removed. Compaction should be of as high a standard as reasonably practicable.
The absolute minimum requirement is clod-breaking and this should be enforced. Preferably the material
should be placed in layers not exceeding 250 mm thick at close to optimum moisture content, and
compacted to 95% standard Proctor density. With reasonable control a crest level of +200 mm -0 should
be achievable, with the same order of tolerance horizontally at top of slope (distance from centerline).
Toe of slope could be +500 mm -0 from centerline. Following completion of the embankment, the slopes
should be grassed. Equally important is the planting of vegetation to prevent borrow pits from beconiing
preferential flow channels.
Design Criteria
7.         The recommended crest height is that which allows a 1.5m freeboard above the 100 year
return period flood level at the Sariakandi/Mathurapara reach of the Brahmaputra River.  The
recommended crest width is 6m which will be sufficient for maintenance purpose. The side slopes
recommended by a BRTS soil stability analysis are: (a) IV:3H on the river side, and (b) IV:5H on the
country side. These slopes and the 6m crest width will assume a reasonable factor of safety against
seepage forces during floods.



ANNEX-3
Page 1 of 22
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Resettlement Action Plan
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.    In compliance with the principles of the Bank's Operational Directive 4.30, a resettlement
action plan (RAP) has been prepared for the project. The main challenges of this plan have been
to: (a) develop an improved mechanism of valuation of land; (b) develop policies which adequately
address the need for restoring income levels of agriculture-based households; (c) identify and define
non-property owners in need of assistance; and (d) design mechanisms which adequately ensure
proper relocation of households losing their homesteads.
Project Locations and Sunmarv of Acquisition and Resettlement Impacts
2.     There will be two construction contracts each of 30 months. Contract No. BI, for the
works at Sariakandi and Mathurapara and Contract No. B2, Sirajganj (Figure 1). At Sirajganj a
new revetment over 2 km long will be constructed to protect the town's population and
infrastructure from erosion. At Mathurapara-Sariakandi revetment type "hard-point and cross-
bar" will be constructed at each of these locations and the existing Kalitola Groyne will be
reconstructed to prevent breakthrough of the Brahmaputra-Jamuna into the Bangali River. The
Sirajgan; and Sariakandi area bank protection works are separate projects in terns of
implementation of compensation since they are distant from one another and the economic settings
and project impacts are different. However, the same set of compensation entitlements and
institutional arrangements apply to each area.
3.     Siraigani In Sirajganj, the area affected is on the urban fringe comprising the busy
waterfront of a regionally important river port and low-lying agricultural land presently outside any
flood protection. The existing riverbank revetments will be improved involving the displacement of
about 140 households (as of March 1995) living on the riverside of the embankment, along with
116 shops and businesses along the embankment (many other businesses move around the ferry
terminals depending on the level of the river and would not be directly affected). The project works
have already been modified to avoid displacing 35 long established households on private land on
the country side of the embankmnent. Figure 2 shows the project affected area and the housing
zones identified in he study along the embankment.
4.     The 140 households have fixed assets averaging about Tk 5,990 per household. A total of
693 people will be affected. About 35 percent of wage earners are rickshaw pullers, and 26
percent have small businesses. The 116 shops vary greatly in size and type of business, on average
these premises are valued at Tk 23,500 each. The estimates from the 1992 survey responses were
significantly less. There are also 25 people who have gardens and trees located on the embankment
with a total area of 1,092 m sq and present value of standing plants of Tk 16,000.
5.    The project will reclaim about 25 ha of seasonally flooded land adjacent to the Jamuna
between Sirajganj town and Ranigram Groyne. Part of this area is cultivated and a smaller part is
under water throughout the year. BWDB has previously acquired about 20 percent of this land
and the DC has declared that the remainder is "khas" land (recently created by silt deposits and
owned by Govenmuent). Subject to this being confirmed, requisition of this area should be straight
forward. There is one homestead which will be displaced and cultivators will receive compensation



ANNEX_3
Page 2 of 22
and assistance in relocating. The land will be used as a working area by the contractors during
construction.
6.    After the project, this reclaimed area will form an extension to Sirajganj town and will be
protected by the project works. BWDB will retain on a permanent basis about 7.5 ha of this area
for the Monitoring and Maintenance Unit responsible in the long-term for the bank protection
works under this project (Figure 3). A permanent resettlement site is also planned for the 140
households displaced by the project and will require about 3.2 ha (Figure 4.) The plan provides for
facilities at this site and an orderly transfer of houses, which must take place before the final year
of construction. Assuming it is khas land, the remaining area would be returned to the jurisdiction
of the DC after reclamation.
7.     Sariakandi-Mathurapara Area  The Sariakandi area has experienced rapid erosion in
recent years from the Jamuna river to the east. A smaller river, the Bangali, lies one km to the west
and the area between is occupied by long-term residents and resettled erosion victims. The project
will strengthen the existing Kalitola Groyne at Sariakandi, build a hard-point about 2.5 km south
of Sariakandi near Digolkandi village to stop erosion (Sariakandi hard-point) and at Mathurapara
and, after completion of the construction of hard points, construct a new 7.5 km section of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) which will connect the cross-bars of the three bank
protection works to provide long-term flood protection to the area (Figure 5).
8.    The key problem in finalizing the RAP is continued uncertainty over the location of the
hard points. Erosion during 1992 and 1993 has caused the initial locations of both Sariakandi and
Mathurapara hard points to be relocated, and it is possible that further erosion in the period to
1996 may require further relocation. This is because, while placement of the hard points is
designed to be completed within one dry season, preparation of the site and materials needed is a
lengthy process: assuming a contract is awarded by November 1995, it will take about one year for
preparation, with placement in winter 1996/7.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Needs
9.    To determine the range of land acquisition and resettlement needs, it was assumed that the
worst case was represented by the rapid erosion of 1993 continuing at the same rate in 1995 and
1996. Locations for the hard points and cross-bars were determined for the worst case barkline
position, and an "envelope" area was defined for each of Sariakandi and Mathurapara hard points
which included all possible hard-point locations for erosion rates up to that defined for this worst
case. Within each envelope, a census of homesteads and landowners was made based on a 20
percent sample survey in Mathurapara, and in Sariakandi, where many households would be
affected by construction even without further erosion, all households were interviewed. Following
this method, three erosion scenarios were developed: (1) no further erosion, construction at
February 1995 bankline; (2) an intermediate scenario which assumed erosion at half the rate of
1993, and (3) rapid erosion at the same rate as in 1993 at both sites in 1995 and 1996. The
implications of these scenarios on resettlement are detailed below.
10.   Mathurapara  The bankline here eroded 300 m in 1993. In the envelope area, the
potentially Project Affected Persons (PAPs) comprise: 108 households (573 people) living in the
area, 6 shops, and 45 households living outside the area have land affected by the project. The
total area potentially affected is 64 ha of which 21.5 ha is reported to be under homesteads.
Agricultural land is mostly double cropped (cropping intensity 240 percent), major crops are jute,
transplanted aman, wheat, and HYV boro. The reported replacement value of land is about Tk
187,000 per ha, and recent land prices are deflated or not available within much of the project area
because of the erosion risk. Incomes are mainly dependent on farming and agricultural laboring,



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 22
and reported per capita income averages Tk 5,280 per year. If forced to move home by the project,
between 54 and 71 percent (depending on whether they had government resettlement assistance)
would prefer to move out of the area, many indicating a preference to move to near Bogra. The
households have been categorized according to the type of assets affected. Table I shows the
estimated numbers of households (MH) affected in the three scenarios. The scenarios are adjusted
for areas lost to erosion before the Section 3 notification of land acquisition, but assume that full
compensation would then be paid for all the area on which the acquisition process was started.
Because many households live on the present BRE, and nearby areas have high density of owner
occupied homesteads, even a moderate erosion rate will force the project to displace over 70
households. In addition, the extreme scenario (3) would result in 6 shops being displaced with total
value of structures of about Tk 33,000.
Table 1:_ Comp~ensation and Resettlement Impacts for Mathurapara -in Three Indicative Scenarios
Impact                 Scenario I         Scenarno2              Scenario 3
.                         ~~~~~~~(no erosion) . (.150 m a year)    (t300.m ayear.)
.........................................................  ................... .....................  ................ ......  ........................ Q . T.......... ...    ..............
HH with no homestead displaced        10                    63                    81
HH only with homestead displaced       0                     4                     8
H- lose all land and homestead         0                     6                     11
HH lose homestead and part of land     0                     4                     8
Total HH displaced                    10                    81                   108
Private ha acquired                    9.7                  30                    64
ha requisitioned                       7                     7                     7
Note Toaa ar ac denved frm mas mcludes rea is dea homrsteads.
11.    Sariakandi The bankline here eroded about 100 m in 1993. In the envelope area, the
potential PAPs comprise: 112 households (519 people) living in the area, one brickwork, and 63
households living outside the area but with land inside. The total area potentially affected is 33.5
ha of which 2.2 ha is reported to be under homesteads. Agricultural land is mostly double or triple
cropped and is similar to that in Mathurapara. Many of the households (71) live on or near the
BRE and would be displaced by construction works even if there is minimal erosion in 1994 and
1995. Some of these households would prefer to leave the area, but many wish to remain, and
without resettlement would have no alternative but to move to another part of the BRE. The hard
point itself would not be suitable for homesteads and will need to be unoccupied for maintenance.
A resettlement site nearly will be developed. In the worst case, a further 41 households in part of
Digolkandi village could also be displaced, along with the brickworks. Table 2 shows the estimated
numbers of households which would be affected in two scenarios. The irnpacts and costs for an
erosion rate of half the 1993 rate would be almost the samne as for the no erosion scenario.
Table 2: Compensation and Resettlement imeacts for Sariakandi in Two indicative Scenarios
I..                         Scenari .   eion) .......................e . . (0 m
HH with no homestead displaced               64                               64
HH only vith homestead displaced              7                               24
HHlose a lad andhonmetead                     0                                15
HH lose homestead and pautofland              0                                9
TodaHHdisplaced                              71                              112
Private ha acquuied                           9.71                           1I.1
ha reqisitiorned                              6                                5
12.    Kalitola Groyne The existing Groyne in Sariakandi town experienced less erosion in 1993
and will be improved to form the third hard point in the area. Access for construction will be
needed and will displace for up to two years about 10 households; all but one are landless living
near the base of the groyne. After construction, the land should be available again for these people,
but if access for maintenance to the groyne is to be maintained, resettlement at another site on the
edge of the town is preferred.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 22
13.   Proosed BRE When the hard points have been constructed and stabilize the bankline, a
final retired BRE will be needed to link the crossbars of the hard points. This will provide long-
term protection from Jamuna floods to the immediate area and to a wider area of the Bangali
floodplain. The retired BRE associated with this project would have a total length of about 7.5
km. The BRE will require a strip of land approximately 33.5 m wide with no berm for
resettlement and 37.75 m wide with a resettlement berm. In all cases a crest height of 5 m above
ground level is assumed. The precise location will depend on the final sites of the hard points, but
there is limited room to change the location. For planning purposes, a location assuming the
present bankline at construction has been surveyed. This implies about 25.1-28.3 ha of land will
be needed. Most is cultivated land, but with the revised alignment, relatively few landless
households (most own their homesteads) and landowners would lose their homes compared with the
earlier alignment. The number of households affected will depend on the final alignment, but for
estimation purposed 50 households have been assumed. Another implication of the erosion
process, which would arise even without the project, is the other households in Sariakandi and the
remainder of Digolkandi village will eventually find themselves outside the BRE, and thus prone to
flooding, when the present BRE erodes.
2.    RESETTLEMENT PLAN ENTITLEMENTS AND POLICY
14.   Land acquisition in Bangladesh is known to cause severe adverse impacts on the majority
of affected people because (a) the level of compensation of land has generally been far below the
market value of the lost properties; (b) the small average land holdings in Bangladesh makes people
exuremely vulnerable to even small losses of productive land; and (c) the GOB Ordinance which
governs land acquisition only recognizes legal owners of properties being acquired. This excludes
different kinds of people in Bangladesh without legal ownership of the one land and/or property
being acquired. but who either live, or derive their income from land, or from enterprises based on
the affected land. Following discussions in January/February 1995, the Policy Entitlement Matrix
(PEM) for the River Bank Protection Project was compared and harmonized with the PEM for the
Coastal Emnbankment Rehabilitation Project. The revise PEM for RBPP is given in Appendix 1.
1S.   The matrix covers 14 a categories of entitlement and refers to the responsibilities of the
Project Management and Resettlement Unit (PMRU) which BWDB will set-up to manage both
project implementation and compensation and resettlement for this project.  The following
exceptions or additional factors also will be taken into account while implementing the plan.
*  Some landowners in Sariakandi have lost their land to the recent (1992-3) retirement of the
BRE, but did not receive compensation. If this land is taken by the project, they will
receive full compensation under the entitlements specified in the matrix.
*  The PMRU will monitor conditions in the resettlement areas to ensure that the host
communities are not adversely affected.
*  Community infrastructure (schools, mosques, temples and common market facilities)
which will be affected by project works need to be moved or reconstructed or replaced.
This will be covered under the compensation budget. Through the advisory and liaison
committee, appropriate relocation sites will be determined which benefit both affected
people and host communities.
*  The project is not expected to have any direct negative impacts beyond the area already
identified for land acquisition and covered in this plan. However, the PMRU will monitor
the construction works and changes in the surrounding area differential impacts.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 22
16.    Retirement of the BRE and limited erosion until stable bays form after the project will
result in some further loss of land and eventually place some land and homesteads outside flood
protection. Formal assistance to these victims lies outside the scope of this resettlement plan
since the loss would have occurred without the project. Planned displacement of people in
Sriakandi town or from the present BRE onto a ready-made berm on the new BRE, along with
basic service provisions can only be finalized when the alignment of the retired BRE is agreed.
3.     CONSULTATION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
17.    Public Consultation and Information The socio-economic surveys conducted for the RAP
have already made people in the affected areas aware of proposals since all households have been
censured. The local administration have been made aware of the proposals on an informal basis.
The proposed BRE alignment in Sariakandi area has raised problems and potential opposition
since part of the town and most of Digolkandi village would be on the riverside of the embankment.
In the Sariakandi area, people hope that the new hard points will halt erosion and landowners
expect to get compensation instead of being made landless by the river in a few years. In Sirajganj,
an increase in land values as a result of the project is anticipated. Opinions on compensation levels
and resettlement preference have already been obtained on a household level from all households
living in the affected areas in Sirajganj and Sariakandi sits, and from samples in Mathurapara and
the proposed BRE alignment. These are reported and incorporated in the detailed plans. Formal
discussion with the local administration and relevant elected representatives is needed to inform
them of the RAP contents, obtain their opinions and set in motion the local advisory and liaison
committees and close working relations between the PMRU and the DC's office. A small
workshop to this effect will be held before the PMRU is established. This should take place before
finalization of the RAP so that local agencies which will be involved in or be affected by
implementation have some ownership over the Plan.
18.    Public Information  The PMRU assisted by other sub-contracted organizations will
undertake a public information campaign and then consultations with affected people. They will
then keep people informed as the project location is finalized. As part of implementation of the
RAP, the PAPs will be counseled by the partner organization over which option among those
specified in he entitlement would be best for them. For example, many households say they wish to
leave the Mathurapara area, but as landless labouring households may not find sufficient work if
they move to the Bogra area, they need to be aware of what facilities and services they would get
by remaining in the area compared with moving out. A simple brochure in Bangla on each sub-
project (giving details of aims, project components, compensation arrangement, entitlements, and
organizations involved) will be prepared and distnrbuted within one month of the establishment of
the PMRU. Its distribution will also help in bringing forward any PAPs missed in the surveys.
This will be followed up with a public meeting in each of the two contract areas involving the local
MP, local officials, BWDB, NGOs etc., and PAPs. This will discuss the project, entitlements,
possible resettlement locations, and implementation issues. The aims will be to explain the current
plan, find out what local concerns are over project impacts (which could affect the choice of final
hard-point locations within the envelope areas), improve understanding on both sides, and help find
replacement land in adjacent mauzas.
19.   Grievances Because of complexity and confusion in land records, there is considerable
scope for grievances over the whole compensation process. The additional entitlements specified in
the RAP are designed to overcome many of the past problems. Grievance Committees which will
be set-up are designed to avoid lengthy delays over cash compensation according to law (CCL)
where possible through negotiation, and to provide a final decision over any dispute regarding the
additional grants and assistance provided by the project. Examples of problems which would be
heard by this committee include: people who claim to be PAPs, but were initially not recorded as



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 22
such by the project, disputes over values, special cases where flat rate grants are inadequate,
disputes over the equivalence of replacement land, and arrangements over the reclamation area at
Sirajganj.
20.   The Grievance Committees must be seen to be impartial and to represent the agencies
involved. They will sit in situ in the affected area without requiring PAPs to make frequent visits
to distant towns. There will be one Grievance Committee in each of Sirajganj and Sariakandi
areas. Following recent recommendations by BWDB which takes account of JMBA's successful
experience and WB's requirement for representation from GOB as well as NGO, the Grievance
Committee will comprise the following members:
(i) Sub-Divisional Engineer (SDE) of implementation Agency   Convenor
(ii) Resettlement Public Relations officer (RPRO) of PMRU  Member Secretary
(iii) Local UP Chairman                                 Member
(iv) Program Manager of the Implementing NGO           Member
If necessary, the Committee will co-opt. Members from Section officers (SO) BWDB, and a
teacher of the local educational institution as non-Government Aide.
21.   The two committees will be formed within two months of the establishment of the PMRU,
so that the procedure can be seen by PAPs to be in place. It will commence hearings within a week
of issuing details of entitlement to PAPs following joint verification. Grievances may be brought to
the attention of the implementing NGO or PMRU office. The committees are expected to meet to
hear grievances once every two weeks for a day (information on the place and time will be posted
In the concemed areas and PAPs informed by the village level workers). The PMRU will review
progress of these hearings and increase the infrequency of meetings if required. Project costs
include payment of committe members' expenses for attending hearings and in follow-up work
including visits to PAPs and investigation of land records.
4.  INSTITUTIONAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
22.    The managemnt structure for implementation has to merge engineering construction with
ensuring payment of full compensation to affected people. The organizational set-up for the
Resettlement Plan includes:
*  the DC's office, which has legal responsibility for paying compensation and has access to
official land records;
*  BWDB as the requiring body is responsible for the project works and the new entitlements
additional to those recovered in the DC's responsibilities. To implement this BWDB will
formn a new project level organization for resettlement;
* other organizations (whether government or non-government) with skills and services
required for resettlement and rehabilitation; and
*  the linkages between these organizations and demarcation of responsibilities.
23.    All involved organizations face some problems in their relations with the affected people.
For example, the area has had frequent surveys but continues to erode so BWDB is thought to be
inactive; there have been problems over compensation in past land acquisition; and NGOs in the
Bogra area face problems with fundamentalists. Hence the first step will be to convince the PAPs
that the agencies involved will be sensitive to local people and that the project will benefit them
through fair and comprehensive compensation.  Provision for indqendent monitoring and
evaluation is made because this is a new approach and it will be important to learn for futre
projects.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 22
24.   DC's District Administration Office. As the acquiring body, the DC's office is and will
remain liable under the law for performing (a) the process of checking proposals for land
acquisition; (b) serving notices; (c) assessing land values; (d) reporting disputes; and (e) paying
cash compensation according to the law (CCL) including the 50 percent premium on land values.
The distnct administration will receive assistance from BWDB and other organizations, and
BWDB will take formal responsibility for providing services and payments to PAPs in addition to
CCL.
25.   It is essential to the project timetable that CCL is paid on time and in full. It is essential
that genuine landowners who lose to the project receive their full compensation. The PMRU
assisted by sub-contracted or partner organizations, will work with the DC's office during joint
verification of entitlements and will ensure that their databases of PAPs and their entitlement are
consistent. In view of the urgent nature of the project and critical issue of updating and validating
land records, the relevant DC's will be requested to deploy their land record staff to the project
needs on a priority basis and BWDB will provide additional staff if required to work on the DC's
behalf.
26.   BWDB Organization and Responsibilities Under the RAP, BWDB will be responsible for:
(a) ensuring that alJ entitled persons were identified (as in the policy matrix); (b) providing top-up
funds between the CCL amount and that required for replacement values, and for any category of
compensation not specified under existing legislation (of which the main one is category 5 - loss of
occupied homestead); (c) providing the funds for additional services (the services of the partner
NGOs staff, record keeping, publicity, any training provisions, and finding replacement land); and,
(d) delegating implementation of some of these activities to other organizations contracted to
BWDB for the purpose, but will supervise this and retain responsibility. BWDB will also provide
a link between the contractor and the resettlement plan. Land required temporarily by the
contractor is not covered in the RAP, but private arrangements made by the contractor should not
be detrimental to local people nor should they adversely affect the implementation of the RAP. The
contractors may help PAPs by providing work or may adversely affect them if construction is not
handled sensitively.
27.   Project Management and Resettlement Unit (PMRU) The RAP is to be administered
initially by the Project Management and Resettlement Unit (PMRU) under a Deputy Director
Resettlement and will utilize staff seconded from relevant directorates plus newly appointed social
scientists. Appropriate staff will be recruited, or existing staff retrained in resettlement, on an
urgent basis. The staff should liaise with and learn from practical experience in the Jamuna Bridge
Resettlement Unit. After construction and closure of the Project Management Unit, a Monitoring
and Maintenance Unit for bank protection works is scheduled to be set-up and the Resettlement
Unit will continue alongside this unit in a reduced formn for a year after completion of the works.
28.   Under the charge of a Project Director, the PMRU will have the usual staff concerned with
management and monitoring of construction. The resettlement and land acquisition aspect of the
work will be the responsibility of a Deputy Director seconded form the BWDB Land and Revenue
Directorate, who should have extensive land acquisition experience and a social science
background. The central PMRU staff covering Sanakandi area and Sirajganj area will be located
in Bogra, work closely with the District administration and PMRU sub-offices, and maintain a
central computerized records of entitlements. There will be two sub-project offices of the PMRU,
one at Sirajganj and one at Sariakandi, the latter covering all the works from the Kalitola Groyne
to Mathurapara hard point. The staff at each sub-project office will be responsible to the Deputy
Director Resettlement. Figure 6 gives the organogram for key personnel, including the expected



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 22
arrangement in the sub-contracted organizations. Figure 7 shows the linkages between this unit
and other organizations involved in implementing the plan.
29.   The main tasks of the resettlement wing of the PMRU will be to: (a) coordinate, manage
and day-to-day monitoring of resettlernent; (b) establish two local advisory and liaison committees,
one in each area (Sairakandi-Mathurapara and Sirajganj), (c) determine landownership within the
project land acquisition areas; (d) determine entitlement packages of each PAP (assisted by partner
organizations); (e) ensure that the records kept for CCL and for additional project related
compensation are consistent; (f) ensure all PAPs are identified and receive their entitlement with
the minimum hardship; (g) liaise with DC over land acquisition and ensure timely and full payment
of CCL; (h) arrange payment of additional compensation to the CCL according to PAP
entitlemnents and ensure its timely payment (assisted by partner organizations); (i) prepare TORs
for other organizations contracted to assist or imnplement resettlement plan components;
(j) select and monitor other organizations for resettlement subcontracts; (k) arrange purchase or
handover of, and supervise design and construction of, resettlement sites as specified in
resettlement plan; (I) identify acquired lands remaining after construction available for
resettlement; negotiate employment of appropriate PAPs with contractors; (m) prepare TOR for,
and determine who will make, post-resettlement survey for post-evaluation of the program; and
(n) identify any other PAPs, who may have been missed earlier, as the project is implemented and
operational.
30.    The PMRU Deputy Director Resettlement will prepare a quarterly report for BWDB
covering progress compared with schedule in both areas, and any problems or changes to the plan:
for example, results of land value assessment, revisions to PAPs, changes to cost estimates
following joint verification. The sub-contracted organizations will submit reports two weeks in
advance of this covering their activities, progress and problems. Monitoring of erosion and PAPs
will be undertaken by the PMRU and partner organizations. Resulting changes proposed to the
timetable or plan will be submitted to the Director, PMRU who will forward to the relevant Chief
Engineer for approval, following discussion with the local advisory committee, supervision
consultants and contractors as appropriate.
31.    Sub-contracted NGOs.  It is not appropriate for BWDB to develop all the relevant
expertise in compensation and resettlement itself. Specialist skills are needed in areas which
BWDB does not normally work in, and it will be more efficient to contract assistance from other
organizations as well as improving accountability to those affected.. The NGOs in general have
directly relevant experience in their development programs, and are experienced in working closely
with and encouraging participation of beneficiaries. In addition, staff of other government agencies,
and local organizations also have relevant experience. One NGO in each area will be contracted as
a partner to the PMRU sub-office and will provide the necessary skills, experience in assisting the
rural poor, and a measure of independence from both the District Adminisation and BWDB.
These organizations will employ village level resettlement workers who will help in determining
who is eligible for what compensation, and who will provide records of entitlements and then
follow up to see that entitlements are received. Disbursement of additional compensation not
specified by law will be supervised by the BWDB-PMRU, but carried out by the sub-contracted
organizations.
32.    Specific tasks of the selected NGO will be to (a) provide appropriate field staff;
(b) facilitate public awareness of entitlements and consultation over the details of plan
implementation; (c) identify entitlements other than the legal minimum ones, and advising on use of
compensation; (d) issue PAP identify cards; (e) maintain entitlement records, and records of
compensation received, decisions taken, other services provided , locations moved to etc.;
(f) represent or assist the PMRU in joint verification of land acquisition with the staff of DC's



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 22
office; (g) identify replacement plots and providing assistance in purchasing these, including
assistance in developing resettlement sites and their facilities; (h) provide public information; and
(i) undertake vocational training.
33.    Sub-contracted NGOs in each of the two areas will have a basic staffing dedicated to the
project which will include: (a) a program manager: (b) an officer to prepare records of households
and entitlements, including collaborating with the PMRU and DC's office to ensure that records
are consistent; (c) an officer responsible for development of the resettlement site(s) and their
facilities and for advice on possible locations of replacement land, work opportunities, and training
available through the project; and (d) approximately one village resettlement worker per 100
project affected households which include businesses and landowners residing outside the area.
Since the RAP is a new approach, the PMRU and program managers and higher staff will closely
monitor the perfonnance of sub-contract NGOs and staffing levels may be modified in order to
ensure that plan objectives are met.
34.    Local Administration. Cooperation from the local administration is important. The Thana
and the Union Parishad (UP) have responsibilities for services in their areas, and the UP represents
the affected persons. The socio-economic surveys indicate that people in the affected areas prefer
to have their UP involved in the compensation process, particularly in helping to identify
landowners and entitled persons, and in the Grievance Committees. The UPs will have an advisor
role in the compensation program and the UP chairman will be a member of the Grievance
Comruittee Decisions on the use of compensation funds for local community facilities will be taken
in consultation with the UP (or Municipality in the case of Sirajganj). The other key role requiring
UP assistance is in detenrining resettlement sites which are acceptable to local people and host
commrunities, and in encouraging large landowners to sell land to those whose land is acquired.
35.    Banks. Compensation paid through the DC (CCL) plus top up amounts will in most cases
be paid by cheque, and a delay in finding replacement land may arise, so PAPs in this situation will
need bank accounts. To simplify the process and minimize complexity over payments, an
arrangement will be made for a simplified procedure (see Section 4.1.4 for details) with one bank
with local branches in Sanakandi and Sirajganj.  Since the Rajshahi Krishi Unnayan Bank
(RKUB) in Sirajganj has already agreed to a similar arrangement for the JMB, the PMRU is
expected to approach this bank.
36.    Linkages and Advice. To manage a system involving different organizations, close
cooperation will be needed, including a common record keeping system of entitlements,
compensation and services provided. This information will be compiled and shared jointly between
the three main implementing organizations (DC's office, PMRU and sub-contracted NGOs), but
responsibility for managing and maintaining records will lie with the PMRU. The PAPs will have
representation in the implementation of this Plan, and will be encouraged to strengthen their own
community. Given the limited numbers of PAPs, it will be appropriate to form a Local
Implementation Group in each area, comprising PAPs representing the main different types of
affected persons (landless, shopkeepers, farmers, etc.) They will represent their community with
the contracted NGO, try to avoid disputes of problems at the outset, and assist in developing
resettlement sites. A higher level Local Advisory and Liaison Committee will be set-up in each of
the two project areas. This will comprise: Project Director PMRU, Deputy Director Resettlement,
ADC Land, TNO, UP Chairman, program manager of sub-contracted organizations, and the Local
Implementation Group representing PAPs. This committee is expected to meet at least every two
months, and will resolve any major problems, and keep the different organizations and interest
groups informed of progress and the implementation timetable. During construction, it will also
form a channel for liaison with the contractors via the PMRU.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 22
5.     TIMETABLE FOR IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Timetable of Works and Associated Compensation
37.    Sirajgan; and Kalitola. The period between May and August 1995 is critical as Section 6
notice will need to be completed by then. The eviction and handling over site for the first year
construction has to be completed by mid-January 1996 (Figure 8).
38.    Sariakandi-Mathurapara Area. The timetable for civil works and compensation and
resettlement in this area is outlined in Figure 9. The program for Kalitola Groyne will be the same
as for Sirajganj since these works are scheduled to commence in 1996. The work schedule for
retiring the BRE is not yet finalized and will depend on the rate of erosion and location of hard
points. If erosion is rapid, then the situation must be reviewed during winter 1995-96, because
there is a risk that the effective BRE could be eroded during the 1996 monsoon and this could
threaten the project if Jamuna flood water joins the Bangali in a major flood. If this threat arises,
then the acquisition and compensation process could be completed in the areas outside Sariakandi
town for October 1996 construction of a retired BRE, and the alignment and PAPs must be
identified during May-June 1996.
39.   The critical periods for acquisition of the hard-point sites are the winter of 1995/96 (Nov-
Feb) when all PAP entitlements in the envelope areas are determiined following the first notification
of acquisition in November 1995, and April-September 1996 during which all compensation must
be paid and all households living in the area needed relocate to new homesteads, including
development and relocation to resettement sites and private purchase of homestead land. Between
these dates, the Grievance Committee will resolve conflicts over compensation under the PMRU
control, and the PMRU will assist in locating replacement land (particularly for homesteads).
Critical Path for Resettlement Action Plan
40.   In Sariakandi area, the key benchmark is for Section 3 notification for land acquisition
to be made before November 1995 for all the area which might be needed. This means that the
necessary GOB funds for land acquisition will have been approved. If part of the area is found not
to be needed because erosion slows, then costs are saved. This is a point of no return because it is
the latest that construction can be contracted for Winter 1996-7 placement, and is also a practical
time for letting contracts given the likely time needed to process bids. If notifications have not been
issued then there is no certainty of construction on time and delay of a year is implied. In
Sirajganj area, the key benchmark is also for Section 3 notification for land acquisition to be made
by or in June 1995 for all the reclamation area needed permanently by BWDB including the
resettlement site, and for requisition agreements to be made on the same time scale to ensure that
landowners understand the arrangement. This will allow for any part of the area not being khas
land. The second benchmark is for Cultivation compensation and any land compensation to be
paid by October 1995 ready for reclamation work to start. Agreed target dates for the RAP are
shown in Table 3 below, which will be updated at negotiations based on the progress achieved.



ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 22
Table 3: RAP Implementation Target and Benchmark dates to September 1996
Item No.                                 Actions                                  Completion
Date
I      Contract signed with consultants to assist Resettlement Units          Oct 30 '95
2      Operational budget for RUs approved and fund released                  Jul 31'95
3      Kalitola Groyne (K): Determine LA requirement. Submit LA proposal to DC  Apr 15 '95
4      Sirajganj/Ranigram Groyne + reclamation area (SR): Determine LA requirements.  Jul 31 '95
Submit LA proposal to DC. Finalize rental agreement with landowners, if this
options is feasible.
5      Offer of employment to senior staff of Resettlement Units.             Aug 30 '95
Posting of special LA officers (kanungo) with the DCs concerned
6      Submission of RAP to WB                                                Sep 28 '95
7      Resettlement Units established and staff posted (include. transport, office, support  Sep 15 '95
staff)
8      Contracting of local implementing NGOs                                 Nov 10 '95
9      K/SR: Notice under Section 3 (General Notice)                          Oct 15 '95*
lOa     KISR: Start of preparation fieldwork for Joint Verification            Oct 15 '95
l0b     K/SR: Completion of field verification                                 Oct 29 '95
WOc     K/SR: Finalization of Joint Verification report and submission for approval  Nov 15 '95
11     KISR: Final approval of LA proposal                                    Nov 28 '95
12     K/SR: Notice under Section 6                                           Dec 12 '95
13     K/SR: Issuance ofID cards                                              Dec15 '95
14     Compensation budget estimate by DC submited to BWDB                    Dec 20 '95
15     Mathurapara + Sariakandi (MS): Identify land requirement               Nov 15 '95
16     MS: Submit LA proposal to DC                                           Nov 30 '96
17     K/SR: Deposit of LA funds with DC                                      Dec 24 '96
18     K/SR: Completion of payment of compensation as per Resettlement Policy  Jan 10 '96
19     K/SR: Eviction-handing over                                            Jan25 '96
20     MS: Eviction-handing over                                               Sep15 '96
Note:   During the period prior to November 1995, the legal provisions for dealing with land that may or may
not be required, depending upon erosion, need to be clarified.
* NGO sub-contracted to implementation consultants; started field work October 15, 1995.
* Kalitola Section 3 notice issued earlier
41.    Further Tasks When the BRE alignment is known (September-October 1996), the PMRU
will assess the population and land let outside the retired BRE, and the risks and potential losses
they face from  erosion and flooding.  The report will indicate expected losses and the likely
reduction in losses (benefit) from alternative mitigation measures.
42.    An independent evaluation of the impact of the resettlement plan impacts will be made in
1998 when all PAPs will have been compensated and have had a year of 'hormal" life following
displacement.  This will be based partly on the initial socio-economic survey plus monitoring
records, comparison with a "control" area outside the project, plus a final evaluation survey to
assess household economic situations in say March 1988 compared with March 1994.
6.   BUDGET
Resettlement Provisions
43.    Table 4 shows the total estimates of households, businesses and land areas expected to be
taken by components of the project. In the case of no more erosion, as a result of the bank
protection works some 246 households with no homestead land of their own would be provided
with small homestead plots bv the project, and 117 shops would also be helped. The owners of
some 169 ha of land would receive compensation in the form of the cost of replacement land. The
proposed BRE in Sariakandi area will, however, displace families from long established private
homesteads two or more years after the award of contracts. It is very likely that homesteads can be
avoided, but finalization of alignments wvill depend on the actual locations of the hard points. It is



ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 22
likely that some erosion will continue. Erosion at the 1993 rate during 1995 and 1996 will mean
that acquisition affects many more households in Mathurapara (Scenario 3) and to a less extent in
Sariakandi (Scenario 2). In this case, it is expected that 220 households would be displaced in the
two areas. In addition to 60 households displaced by the Kalitola Groyne works and the proposed
BRE, and the same 140 hoseholds alreadv enumerated for Sirajganj.
Table 4:  Likely Land Acquisition and Displacement Impacts
Impact       Sirajganj    Mathurapara  NMathurapara   Sariakandi   Sariakandi    BRE incl.
maximum     maximum    minimum    maximum     Kalitola
Householdno        140           10          81          64          64         20
homestead
HH homestead only    0            0           8           7          24         31
Home & all LAnd in   0            0          1 I          9          15          0
area
Home& partof land    0            0           8           0          9           9
in area
Land in rea home     ?           nk          45          nk         63          nk
outside
Shop/business      116            0           6           0           1          1 +
Acquired ha          8.01         9.7        64           9.7       18.2        28.3
Reqiuisitioned ha  Appx. 1 5.2    77                      6          5          0.5
nk - not known
44.    The area of land to be acquired for all the works involved will be at a minimum 55.7 ha
(although the Sirajganj area should involve little cost), but at a maximum about 118.5 ha would
need to be acquired. It is important to note that part of this increase in area is land and homesteads
which might erode in any case in 1995, or would have eroded in later years without the project.
Any part of the area for which acquisition starts, but which is not needed due to slower erosion will
not be acquired and will remain with the owner, but the project land uses specified in the proposal
for land acquisition will include resettlement, enabling a small area of land (if available) to be used
as a resettlement site(s). Some of the acquired areas for the hard points will in any case be used
for the retired BRE, but this source of "double counting" in costs has been retained as an extra
contingency.
45.    Costs of Compensation Program  The likely range of costs of implementing the RAP, and
the distribution of these payments by main heading, and type of household (homestead) is shown in
Table 5. The compensation packages are expected to cost a minimum of Tk 20-50 million, and a
maximum of Tk 39.70 million if erosion continues to be rapid. The best estimate is the middle
Mathurapara scenario combined with the low Sariakandi scenario (representing erosion at half the
1993 rate during both 1995 and 1996), giving Tk 31.15 million. A 30 percent contingency of Tk
9.35 million has to be added to cover the uncertainty of faster erosion, over the actual application
of entitlements, and the need to compensate for relocation of some community infrastructure
(schools and mosques), resulting in a total cost of Tk 40.50 million. The fixed costs of
implementing the program total Tk 6.3 million (BWDB and partner organization costs), which is
13 percent of the total cost estimate of Tk 46.80 million. This excludes the costs of technical
assistance and of NGO involvement in the initial phase in 1995. The highest certain costs are
associated with the retired BRE because it will pass through part of Sanrakandi town. The best
estimate costs breakdown by location as: 44 percent Mathurapara, 28 percent BRE and Kalitola
Groyne, 19 percent Sirajganj and 10 percent Sairakandi.
46.    Timing of Expenditure The expected timetable of implementation, of the land acquisition
resettlement (where year I starts with the establishment of the PMRU) is:
This could be khas land.



ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 22
Sirajganj:          land costs are incurred in year 1, any household and business costs in year 2 (second
half).
Hard points         land costs are incurred in year 2; household and business costs in years 2-3. It is likely
that some replacement of land will take place in year 3, but the provision is needed in
year 2.
BRE:                all costs in year 3, unless the present BRE is threatened before that time, in which case
the BRE will be retired in year 2.
Staffing Costs: proportioned over the 2.5 years
On this basis, the expected Resettlement Action Plan Budget breakdown, including contingencies,
is given in Table 6. It is important to note that although the funds for all land and homestead
related compensation in Sariakandi and Mathurapara need to be placed in year 1. The PAPs are
likely to be using this to buy replacement land during year 2 and hence the PMRU will remain
active during this period. These costs are expected to be bome our of the Government of
Bangladesh contribution to project costs. Cost estimnates do not include technical assistance for
implementation of the RAP which are included under the Supervisory Consultancy.
Table 5:   Estimated Compensation Impacts and Costs (1994 prices)
ENTITLEMENT/                MATHURAPARA                      SARlAKANDI            KALITOLA  .                               MAX.
IMPACT                                                                          GROYNE        BRE       SrRAJGAN3   TOTAL
cenario      Scenario    Scenario    Scenario     Scenario
j  I   j    2         3            1            2
catl HH                    10        63          81       64             64               9             11           140       305
ca2 HH                      0         4           8        7             24               0             31             0        63
catr3 HH                   0          6          11                       15                                                    26
ct4 HH                      0         4           8                        9              1                                    26
HHdisplaced                10    5 77           10S       71          i 112              10             50           140       420
Agricha acq                9.70      49.08       62.21     9.46           15.76           0.08       26.81             8       112.S5
Agric ha requis.            7         7           7        6               5                                          15        27
hstd ha cq                  0         092         1.79     0.24       j    2.39           0.02        1.49 j             '       5.69
Compensation Cost, Tk 000s                                                  j
I land                  1931        977       2386        1665         2774        i      5      .5337        2000       i   2251
2 homestead land                    235         454       61            606.5            35        683    j                   177S.
3 mortgage                 0          0           0        0               0              0          0            0      j       0
4lease                    31        157         199     *30               so                        86           72            408
, myati                    0          0           0        0              0               0          0            0              0
6crop                    359       1819        2306       351           5S4               I        994          516           4400
7 siructure               20        351         594       134           564              52        555          211           1976
8 commercial                         27          32                    1870                                   1143            3045
9 timber tree                       153         294       21            228              15        321                         859
10fruittree                         216        418        19            182             27         428                        1055
II pond
12 fish
13occupiedhstd            50        315        405        320           320             45          55        1075            1900
14 rented businesw        .                 . i         j            j                           i              36       5      36
15 land requisition      532    .  532          532     j 456        5 380                       j         j   S821           1 1733
TOTAL COST Tk        .      2.92     13.57       17.62     3.06            7.56           0.18       8.46 j       5.83          39.70
rnullions.                                                                                       .                       I
Notc Table excludes establishnent coLs of BWDB. unplrnemnung agency cos and contngencies
Table 6:    Estimated Compensation Costs by year (Tk millions, 1994 prices)
Category.                                         Year 1             Year 2            Ycar3           _Total
Si;rgai                                          3.41                2.47              0                  5.8S
Mathurapara-Sanakandi                            0                  16.63              0                 16.63
Kalitola                                         0.18                0                 0                  0.1S
BRE                                              0                   0                 8.46               8.46
Sub-total                                        3.59               19.10              8.46              31.15
Sub-total + 30% contingency                      4.67               24.83             11.00              40.50
Stafling (PMRU and subcontracts                  2.52                2.52              1.26               6.30
Total                                            1.19               27.35             12.26              46.80
Note Cost breakdown is based on rnrddie scenano for Mathurapsn and low erosion scenano for Sanakandi



ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 22
Figure I
;;                            f S udy                                     -
GAISANDHA-        B~~rahmapulro Righf
\  <\lX  As 8ANDH ^ *gtVXl  Embankrment
SARIAKANItL                              f
.OGRA a v-       SlRA.IGAJ     FERRY GHAr
"~~~~IE BCNTACTNK.} PRTETINPROJECTD
EBRAHtMAPUTRA RIGHT B3ANK PRIORITY WORKS
LOCATION  PLAN



ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 22
Fig= 2
Upstream Termination
<<>      ~Housing Zone I            \\
st;E  \\   Section e  \\F\          Section C
Shops              Lad recioino                        New rvel
Zonet G            LanrccltoIo            \
DsEe~~~~~~Zn \\K
A                     ~~~~~~~Gardens  <
0   100 200 300 400M
Ic.                                                       Section D    
SCALEMao
SIR AJGANJ         Je~i\  renovation
TOWHN                        o  rf exslsninng
Graveyard
Housing Zone R
Housig Zone P
Shops Zone 0
School           ShIpe ZbneM
Housing Zone F - 
Houring Zones H S.T
RBPP: RESETTLEMENT PLAN: SIRAJGANJ
DIAGRAM OF SURVEY ZONES/AFFECTED AREAS



ANNEX 3
Page 16 of 22
Figure 3
Section A
1 xic  R iiUpstream  Termination
Exisling Rciriqoirr.        , 
groyne
-, -  -Site for BWDB O&M premises
Section C
1                               \                                _X\\\ New  revetmen'
Provisonal Site for
.      Reseti miunlty                           Country boat steps
C Communiy
Shops and
Reception Contre
Country boat steps
\ \  Country boat stop*
O    100  200  300  400M                                                    Sect\\ni
t       Section D
SCALE                               Major
SIRAJGANJ             JO   kV\X     renovotion
TOWN                     t\\   of existing
Mei\ Courevetment
Realigned downstrzm      t
formination  ruc chatI
School (        Downstream
Sits for rselcated shopssTrmCto
fNflz   Saeo tar BWOB O&M premiss arn resement S
prmie  are Only indcative  The  d to ai                                  Ferry ghat
koflOtia and exatet  wAil be adapted to
I"able BSWOD owned iand plus additlonal area
RBPP: RESETTLEMENT PLAN: SIRAJGANJ
MAJOR PHYSICAL ELEMENTS OF THE RESETTLEMENT PLAN



ANNEX 3
Page 17 of 22
Figure 4
,Hand Tubewell
ndividual RResttlement Plot
t2LL2ilI r II -TI  
to1 no
Shopping Area
Ng.   1.  Loaion wtin reclamtion are ic pramiononly.
2   The Iyoat IS onty incticaler. Final erraeengemt wUt
be adapted t1 the location of the reettlement Wae
wid with consulation o0 communrty concornmed.
RBPP: RESETTLEMENT PLAN: SIRAJGANJ
INDICATIVE LAY-OUT: RESETTLEMENT COMMUNITY
I~~~~~~~~_



ANNEX-3
Page 18 of 22
Figure 5
* ,             , RECONSTRUCTrON OF
KALITOI A GROYNE
SARIAKANI 4
N-A..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
' ~~*2~r~~~PROpQsEDSD LOCATrO
OF HA~~~OPFOrATPO 4N
RIPP: RESETTLEMENT PLAN
LAY OUT OF WORKS AT SARIAKAND:
M& bATHURAPAtA



Organogram for Key Staff of Resettlement Component of PMRU
XProlct llanagement end Resottl ment Unit/
suOrgraor                subofice                                          sub-office                Subcoractor
Programme Manager        Resettlement and public    Database manager       Resettlement and public    Program.e Manager
I  relations officer                                 relations officer
Programme officer (      Revenue officer            Computer operator      Revenue officer         I Programme officer
(resettlement site)  I                                                                            I (resettlement site)
Programme officer    I  Accountant                                         Accountant              | Programme officer
(advice and records)   !                                                                          I (advice and records)
Surv r s                                              Surveyor 
Vlilage resettlement wo(krs                                                              /ge,V,89  resettlement workers
P R O J E C T                  A F F E C T E D                 P E R S O N S
Note: PMRu stafI exNckuds clari & bw*w graf staff 
1=i f



ANNEX-3
Page 20 of 22
Fieure 7
sI
l!   d i W ~~~~~~~~~~~~
I00|t    



AhMU
Pape 21 of 22
Figtsi 8
-    -- 
I~~~~~~~~~~~s1



ffSETrLEMENT AND LAND ACOIJI S N PROGRAMME OF
WORKS FOR lPP AT SA81M I MAlIRAPARA HARD POINT SITES
4'...  ~ ~    .  .Amgr  A.PmI               -               .-r-.6. Dbmt  amyFb~   APrd  Aiv   A-   -.*  Augui S1UImb
-- a-nd                            1-1ae1dda---- -                                                       B_-
______                                     -=__  
Id..icaban d  sad twquu3"_
SuO~a_ .IL _..ahO                _                                                              ___
k      o                                       _ mqme*o_  
O -m apptnd    e la prnpoad                                                      _ _
fl.m. umdw Se~ g
laImaa dat cw_
OIuaa ht a.d E" auiaNm.
DC l umsa budp eal" toa I. "sUO
Fllm  of M Cempmsaam ICl a.
Puidsm  _u'  a KA   .a
b.uaabdgb. Pupu u?_d,__w lb.                                 _ 
I .. Icempuwasmn oAP
EAamad b.hdmgam.
"as:        FwdPmMid,qinam.NWd aWUoma to 13
:11



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 9
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
A. Monitorine and Maintenance
The project provides for the establishment of an O&M Unit in BWDB dedicated to the
monitoring and maintenance of the project bank protection works after their completion. This Unit is
expected to serve as a nucleus which may be expanded to provide the O&M of future bank protection
works constructed along the Brahmaputra River. The monitoring responsibilities of the O&M Unit are:
(a)   Monitoring the performance of the structural works, including the stability of the armor
layer, the deformation of the falling apron and the stability of earthworks.
(b)   Monitoring river planform changes, particularly in the close vicinity upstream  and
downstream that may have an impact on the security and effectiveness of the works.
(c)   Monitoring flow velocities, water levels and channel geometry, in the vicinity of the works,
at least four times a year.
(d)   Preparing monthly reports and an annual summary report covering these subjects; the
annual report will contain a review of priorities for major maintenance and identify any
constraints that may be adversely affecting the effective operation of the O&M Unit.
2.         The mantenance activities would include the following tasks:
(a)   Carry out routine preventative maintenance of the structural works.
(b)   Carry out any additional bank stabilization measures that may become necessary as a
consequence of extreme or unexpected morphological conditions or the more rapid
development of bank erosion upstream or downstream than anticipated. Such works would
be in the nature of emergency measures but carried out to established engineering
specifications, to hold the situation until contractors can be mobilized to construct any
permanent additional works required.
(c)   Maintenance of specified minimum levels of stocks of construction material, fuels, precast
units and the operational plant at strategic locations for rapid deployment as required.
Some circumstances leading to the emergency tasks described under 2(b) that could be envisaged are:
exceptionally high velocities due to a rare combination of conditions that displace some of
the armor layer;
exceptionally deep scour at the toe of the revetment that results in some local slope failure;
localized slumping of the armored slope due to severe earthquake effects;



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 9
the development of an unusually severe embayment upstream of a revetinent that threatens
the cross-bar.
B. Plant and Equinment Reauirements
Plant and Equipment Categories
3.         Plant and equipment requirements fall into the following functional categories:
*     Monitoring of river parameters such as directional velocity measurements and general
bathymetric survey.
Monitoring of structural performance. This will require more detailed and accurate survey
above and below water level to identify and quantify armor movement and slope
deformation. The same equipment would be suitable for monitoring the placement of
materials in the course of the remedial work.
Position fixing equipment of sufficient accuracy for each task, suitable for both monitoring
and remedial work.
Land and water transport adequate for carrying out the survey work at all times of the year.
Interpretation of aerial photography and satellite imagery, particularly for large scale
planform monitoring.
*     Land facilities for loading, offloading, storing and stockpiling construction materials.
*  ~..Water transport and floating plant for movement of armor and other materials the
construction site, and their controlled placement for both routine and urgent remedial work.
T his equipment must be capable of operation at all river stages.
*     Facilities for holding floating plant in position while placing or dumping material.
A listing of the essential equipment to be procured by the project in order to enable execution of the
above functions is given in Table 1.
Monitoring Equipment
4.         Structural Performance Monitorin. Above water level surveys would be carried out by
conventual theodolite and levelling techniques. Regular traverses along fixed lines before and after each
monsoon will identify any subsidence/slumping and movement of marked armor blocks.  Local
benchmarks would be checked at intervals of not more than five years by second order levelling the
nearest national benchmark. Below water level echo sounder traverses would be carried out along fixed
lines at the same frequency as for the above water line survey. Any areas of apparent movement would
be investigated using side scan sonar equipment and diver reconnaissance. Areas of unusually deep scour
would be similarly inspected. The deformation of the apron would be particularly closely monitored.
Position fixing accuracy must be as good as possible (better than  Im is the order required to pick up
incipient failures). Since the distance from the bank is not very great and dry season velocities will not be
too high, it may be feasible to use a tag line fixed between a monument on the bank and a moored vessel;



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 9
a small boat equipped with the echo-sounder would then follow this line. It would still be necessary to
check the position of the boat at intervals using a land-based EDM or similar equipment. The more
accurate position fixing system (such as manufactured by Racal and Motorola) will be required in higher
flows although they are costly and require specialist servicing.
5.         River Planforn Monitorine. The bankline 10 km upstream and 5 km downstream of all
bank stabilization works would be surveyed by land-based techniques at least twice while the river is
within bank and twice while it is out of bank. In reaches where active erosion is taking place, the survey
frequency would be increased to montWy during the high flow period. Landsat TM imagery computer
compatible tapes for two scenes would be procured as soon after each monsoon as possible. River
bankline, thalweg and char bankline movement would be analyzed in conjunction with bathymetric survey
to give warning of potentially dangerous bend development.
6.         Monitorin2 Velocity and Channel Properties. Near bank point velocities would be
measured along the same fixed lines as used for structural monitoring (para. 4), and at 200/o, 50%/O, and
80% of water depth to provide velocity profiles during the peak flow period. The object is to build up a
better picture of the pattern of velocities in the vicinity of the works for varying discharges and
morphological conditions. These can be used to interpret any movement of the armor material and to
improve design standards for future works. Equipment requirements will be normal directional flow
meters but the necessary winch must be heavy duty to permit the use of sufficiently large sinker weights.
Bathymetric surveys would be carried out by either cross-sectioning or longitudinal traverses (or a
combination), at sufficient frequency to provide the requisite detail for assessing scour development. One
survey would be made in February/March and a second in June/July. If any severe scour is identified,
then a further survey is to be carried out in August/September and October/November. The extent of the
survey would be the full width of the river anabranch for a distance of 5 km upstream and 5 km
downstream. The object is to help assess any persistent consequence of the works, to provide further
information on channel dynamics, and to provide warning of impending attack. Equipment requirements
for bathymetric survey will be normal echosounders. For both velocity measurement and bathymetric
survey, position fixing with an accuracy of better than i I Om, and preferably X 5m, will be required. The
survey vessel used must be capable of holding a stable position during the monsoon season, while having
as shallow a draft as possible.
7.         Plan Update and Reporting. The main equipment requirement will be the microcomputer
hardware and software for interpreting the satellite imagery. Hardware and software will also be
required for bathymetric contour plotting, data processing, analysis and storage.
Maintenance Plant and Equipment
8.         Maintenance. Routine maintenance would normally be carried out during the low flow
period and the plant and equipment requirement can be simpler than that used for emergency work during
the monsoon period. It is anticipated that routine maintenance would consist mainly of dumping
additional armor material in areas where the armor layer has become too thin or the apron has not
launched evenly. However, it may also be necessary to place some new revetment complete with
geotextile if, for examnple, the upstream embayment is threatening a revetment termination or cross-bar.
Since the design is intended to be reasonably conservative, it is not anticipated that the magnitude of this
task will be great in most years. Provision has been made in the cost estimates for 1.0% of the total
armor material cost every year, and 5% every five years. Clearly five years is an average figure and if a
major flood occurred, then the additional works might have to be carried out sooner. In order to avoid
having to have a large amount of plant committed to this task, it would probably be prudent to limit the



ANNEX4
Page 4 of 9
BWDB O&M Unit to core plant and equipment that would be supplemented by hiring or employing local
contractors as necessary.
9.         The minimum equipment required for maintenance would be a powerfil tug, barges for
transporting armor and geotextile sandbags, a land-based crane and possibly a barge-mounted hydraulic
arm for placing material accurately. Accommodation could also be pontoon mounted. Depending on the
lessons learnt during construction of the works, the underwater geotextile filter may be laid either in sheet
form or in the form of geotextile sandbags; the later being considerably easier but possibly more costly.
Position fixing would have to be accurate for this purpose but need not be sophisticated if conventional
procedures give adequate accuracy.
Urgent Bank Stabilization Measures. These works are likely to be necessary, if at all,
during the high flow period. Thus the major requirements are engine power and the ability to hold
position while placing/dumping in point velocities that may locally be more than 3.5 m/s (mean velocity
less than 2 m/s). Accuracy of placing would not be the primary concern but obviously the more accurate
the better. The material used would probably be mainly 0.75 cubic meter geotextile sandbags that could
be dumped or placed.
C. Proposed OrEanizational Maintenance Unit
General
10.       The organizational structure of the Operations and Maintenance Unit is illustrated in
Figure I and will broadly reflect its functions. These functions, as described above (paras. 1, 2), will
consist primarily of monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the works and of their impact on the
river's behavior. Also required will be the subsequent planning, scheduling and execution of the
necessary maintenance and remedial works. These maintenance and remedial works will need to be
carried out and supervised to an appropriate standard and within an acceptable timefame, and their
subsequent performance also monitored and evaluated, along with the rest of the works.
Functions
11.       The O&M Unit's principal functions are:
(a)   Monitoring and Evaluation. One of the major challenges for the operation and rmintnance
unit will be successfully monitoring and evaluating the performance of the works, and their
impact on the river's behavior. Such monitoring and evaluation will be essential if a
rational maintenance and remedial works program is to be planned and scheduled, and if the
success of the works in continuing to restrain the river, over the longer term, is to be
confidently predicted.
(b) Maintenance. The maintenance activities can be categorized as follows:
* land based (the river embankment and cross-bars),
* river based (the revetments and aprons),
* routine preventative, and
* emergency repairs.



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 9
The Organizational Structure
12.       In addition to recognizing the importance of its stated functions, the other key consideration
in determining the structure of the organization is the geographical distribution of the works for which it
will be responsible. The project works will be situated at Sirajganj, Sariakandi and Mathurapara, over a
reach of some 60 km of river. It is considered that a single maintenance unit, based at Sirajganj, will be
adequate to cope with both Sirajganj and the Sariakandi/Mathurapara sites. As, however, further bank
protection works may eventually be constructed elsewhere, covering locations further to the south and to
the north over a reach of 150 km or more, it is recommended that a Head Office/District Office
organization be implemented. A second district office can then be set up further north in the future
without entailing extensive reorganization. As Sirajganj is the most important of the project sites, it is
proposed that the Head Office of the organization should be located there. However, in order to avoid
Sirajganj District dominating the resources of the organization, particularly with a view of future
expansion, it is felt important that the District Office should be physically separate from the Head Office.
13.        Head Office. The Head Office would have overall responsibility for the successful
operation of the organization, but in order to maintain accountability, and be better in touch with
operations, it should be located at Sirajganj and not in Dhaka. The Head Office would also be
responsible for the Central Services Groups, the River Planform Monitoring Group, the Marine Survey
Group, the Survey Equipment Maintenance Workshop, and the Central Casting and Storage Yard.
14.        The River Planform Monitorin! GrouD would be responsible for identifying the priorities
for and specifying the necessary detail for the bathymetric surveys which are assumed to cover 5 km both
upstream and downstream of the revetment works. The purpose of this monitoring will be to identify any
significant changes in the alignment and regime of the anabranches on which the revetment works are to
be constructed. In view of the large areas involved, analysis would be by visual identification of areas of
erosion and deposition using bed contour maps. It is proposed that these Maps be generated by the
SIMPLEPLOT and GRIDDER software packages using data selected from a central INFAMEX data
base of survey records. This work should be able to be carried out on a personal computer and printer,
and would require a computer-literate engineer familiar with data entry, extraction and analysis on a
computer. This unit would also be responsible for procurement of the appropriate satellite imagery tapes
and their processing and analysis using a tape-reader and micro computer. ARCINFO software, and a
digitizing tablet, would enable identification of river movements and correlation to existing survey bases.
This work, in conjunction with the bathymetric survey, would enable the development of any potentially
dangerous bend formations to be observed and predicted at an early stage. Training for local staff by
technical assistance consultants in parallel with the first few years' operation of the system would ensure
satisfactory operation of the unit, and the potential for its continuation under local operation.
15.        The Marine Survey GrouD would be responsible for carrying out both the structural
surveys of the revetment works and the bathymetnc surveys for the river planform monitoring. It would
be responsible to the Central Services Group Executive Engineer and will provide data to the District
Office and to the River Planform Monitoring Group. The Marine Survey Group would consist of both
land-based and marine-based staff. The land-based staff would be required to set up and maintain the
positioning system, be it "Trisponder" or "Microfix" equipment, and to provide land-based support for
communication and supplies to the marine staff. The marine staff would be required to be familiar and
competent with the equipment and procedures for marine survey using electronic position fixing, echo
sounder and side scan sonar equipment. This equipment is necessary in order to ensure sufficiently
accurate data for the structural survey work. The inaccuracies and cumbersome nature of traditional
position fixing systems do not allow accurate correlation between an echo sounder read-out and a boat
position: especially in rapid river flow when boat position would only be able to be maintained steady for



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
a few movements at a time. Moreover, the speed of electric position fixing would allow the surveys to be
carried out more quickly and permit higher utilization of the expensive echo sounder and side scan
equipment. However, whilst echo sounder equipment is now acknowledged to be reliable, side scan sonar
and position fixing systems are less so. The survey technicians would therefore be required to be able to
undertake basic repairs on site.
16.        The Survey EauiDment Maintenance Worksho, would, where necessary, retain a second
"back-up" set of marine survey instruments together with a comprehensive repairs kit, and be capable of
regular servicing and maintenance of both the marine and land survey equipment.
17.        The Central Casting and Storaee Yard would be responsible for the manufacture and
storage of the concrete blocks required for maintaining the revetments and for the storage of other
materials required in the maintenance of the works. The first year's maintenance requirements estmated
at 5% of the total would be provided by the contractor for the initial construction of the works, but the
subsequent years' demands (estimated at 1% or approximately 20,000 blocks per annum) would be
required to be manufactured. The other plant and equipment at the yard would consist of what would be
required to allow movement of materials and finished products (concrete blocks or geotexfile mattresses)
around the yard and onto the maintenance gang's transport (which would most likely be barge or, to a
lesser extent, flat bed trailer). The equipment at the yard could also double in an emergency as a
secondary land-based maintenance unit (crane, dozer and dump truck).  Some revision of these
arrangements would be required if rock armoring were to be used in one or more of the revetments. A
stockpile of rock armor would have to be maintained.
18.        The District Office would be responsible for specifying and progrmming both the land-
and marine-based survey needs. This responsibility will stem naturally from its overall responsibility for
the integrity of the river training works. The District Office would therefore have an all-important data
analysis, monitoring and evaluation function. This will involve storage of the cross-sectional survey
information for the revetment works on a data base such as "INFAMEX" and its retrieval for report and
evaluation purposes on a package such as "SANDS", which will enable viewing and comparison of cross
sections of the structures, and whether or how they are changing with time. The "SANDS/INFAMEX"
data base would also allow correlation or river flood events with the corresponding damage caused to the
revetments or changes in the river bed planform.
19.        The District Land Survey GrouD would be responsible for the bankline survey which is
proposed for 10 km upstream and 5 km downstream of all bank stabilization works. The frequency of
these surveys is proposed to be at least four times annually for the whole of each reach (twice "in-bank"
and twice "out of bank") and probably monthly for reaches where active erosion is taking place. As this
involves almost 40 km of bank for each survey, and more than one location may require monthly
monitoring, it is possible that two or more land survey groups may be required. This would also depend
on the difficulty of terrain and time taken to carry out each survey. Traditional survey equipment, rather
than "hi-tech" tacheometry, is proposed because of cost, ease of operation and reliability. Cross sectional
survey data produced for any embankments related to river revetments would be transferred to the
"INFAMEX/SANDS "data base, to enable checking of overall embankment stability and correlation
with any revetment erosion. The Land Survey Group will also be responsible for setting out of the shore
stations which will enable the Marine Survey Group to position themselves for the structural performance
monitoring echo sounder traverses.
20.        The Marine Maintenance GrouD would be responsible for carrying out both routine
preventative maintenance and urgent bank stabilization measures. Where appropriate, it will also provide
the barges needed for materials transport for the Land Based Maintenance Group. The major part of the



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
Marine Maintenance Group's work would be transport and either dumping or placing of concrete blocks
to repair or extend the revetment works. During be monsoon season at least one barge would be
permanently loaded with a full cargo of blocks allowing quick dumping should any scour holes or erosion
of aprons become evident. The minimum loaded draught for a bottom dump, split hopper or riffler barge
of 60 ton capacity is about 2m and the greatest problem of draught will be found with the tugs which, if
650 HP capacity, will probably need 3m or 4m draught. To facilitate quick plugging of very active
and/or dangerous erosion, it is therefore proposed that a larger barge of the order of 150 ton capacity be
procured (Table 1). To ensure access in as many situations as possible, the other barge to be procured
would be of a lower capacity, say 60 tons-perhaps requiring a lower power and shallower draught tug.
21.        Dumping by barge could take place in not less than say 3m depth of water. This would be
approximately 4m out from the crest of the revetment in normal low flow conditions, say LWL + 2m,
allowing for clearance above the blocks dumped during construction. In similar conditions, a pontoon
mounted with a hydraulic arm would be able to place blocks within about 30m of the crest, i.e., to
approximately LWL. A large land-based crane with a boom of the order of 40m long will be required to
carry out repairs necessary above that level. A suitable crane would be the RB (Lincoln) CH 50 which
can be fitted with booms up to 5 Im long. In this case, a 39m long boom would be appropriate. The
crane would then be able to stand on the revetment, lift blocks from a flat-bed, and place them up to 30m
out onto the revetment, i.e., to within the range of pontoon mounted hydraulic arm. It suggested that the
concrete blocks could be tied together into "slabs". This would allow quicker and easier placing of the
large numbers of blocks which construction or repair of the revetments (above LWL) may require. A
slab of eight 550 mm cubes will weigh approximately 3.2 tonnes (depending on type of aggregate), and
for the 720 mm cubes approximately 7.2 tonnes. The CH 50 can place 1.6 tonnes at 34m, or 12 tonnes
at lOm, i.e., 4 No. and 30 No. 550 mm cubes, 2 No. and 13 No. 720 mm cubes, or I No. and 8 No. 850
mm cubes. Thus, the CH 50 can place the largest cubes at full radius and eight of the largest cubes even
at 12m radius. Such a crane, however, weighs nearly 50 tonnes and would require a crest width of 6
meters. The necessary crest width is allowed for in the design. If any dredging work were required, for
instance, to enable extension of the lengths of revetment, a local dredging contractor would be brought in
specifically to accomplish these works.
22.        The Land Based Maintenance GrouD will primarily be involved in dry season
construction or reconstruction of embankments and cross bars. The overriding importance of properly
controlled compaction dictates that appropriate plant and equipment be used. Since such equipment is
available to local contractors, it would not be procured under the project, but obtained by procurement of
the services of suitable contractors by BWDB's standard tendering procedures. It has been assumed a
large element of the earthmoving could be conducted manually, and by contract labor. The land-based
unit includes the heavy crawler crane which could unload concrete blocks at the site-specific storage
yards, and also assist in construction/repair of revetment sections where placing of the concrete blocks is
required, as detailed in the notes on the Marine Maintenance Group (para. 22).
D. Technical Assistance for Maintenance SuDDort
Training Program
23.       It is proposed that training of BWDB staff in works supervision, quality control,
instrumentation and management be undertaken by secondment of these personnel to the consultant's
team for the supervision of construction of the works. Further, contractor(s) will be required to give
practical training to assigned BWDB staff in the use of specialized instrumentation and equipment of the
type to be used later in the monitoring and maintenance of the works. Payment to the contractor(s) for
this service (included in the bidding document Bills of Quantities) will be subject to the Engineer's



ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 9
certification that a satisfactory standard of training was provided. Further, provision has been made for
the contractor(s), under a separate contract, to provide assistance to BWDB for a period of up to two
years after completion of the works. This assistance would provide training and practical experience in
the monitoring, operation and maintenance of the works. The general procedures for operation and
maintenance will be covered in the O&M Manual to be prepared by the consultants during construction
in consultation with the contractor(s) and BWDB. The perfornance of the project works will be required
to be fully monitored and evaluated, and their impact on the river planform quickly recognized and
analyzed. In order to properly evaluate the behavior of the revetments and the river planform, and to
modify the monitoring program in response to that behavior, a detailed knowledge of the design criteria
and assumptions will be required. Moreover, the design criteria may need refinement in response to the
observed behavior. This is a very different function and requires a totally different mode of training and
support to the advice on operation and maintenance provided by the contractor's personnel. These roles
would most naturally be executed by staff of the consultants responsible for the original design.
Provision has been made for a technical assistance program to provide this service for the first two years
after the completion of the works.  Such an arrangement would enable optimum  maintenance
requirements to be formulated with the minimum of effort. It would also facilitate early recognition of
any unforeseen behavior of the works or of the river in response to the works.
Monitoring and Maintenance Advisors
24.        Monitorins and Evaluation SuDDrto  The project would provide the following technical
assistance for a period of two years: (a) full time River Training Engineer (RTE), and (b) part time
Hydraulic Engineer/Morphologist (HEM). These personnel would provide all the assistance required at
leve 2 in the organization, and the RTE would, in addition, give technical advise to management at level
1. The River Training Engineer's duties would be:
(a)   Advising on the planning programming and resourcing for appropriate survey, routine
preventative maintenance and emergency maintenance in consultation with senior BWDB
and contractor's personnel.
(b)   Monitoring performance of survey, evaluation and maintenance teams and reallocating
resources, re-programming as required.
(c)   Supervising the work of the HEM  in identifying unpredicted or potentially dangerous
behavior of embankment work, revetment works and river planfomn.
(d)   Identifying, in conjunction with the HEM, any deviation in data or behavior from design
criteria or assumptions.
(e)   Observing river bank movement relative to the BRE and advising on retirement of the BRE.
(f)   Identifying with the HEM priorities for future investment.
25.        The role of the Hydraulic Engineer/Morphologist would be to train the Unit's staff in order
to ensure collection of appropriate data, the validity of that data and its correct interpretation and
evaluation to ensure adequate monitoring of the works. This specialist would therefore liaise closely with
the proposed local Data Analysis and Monitoring Engineers whose roles would be similarly defined for
the revetments for the river planform analysis. Specific duties for this training and assistance role would
therefore be to assist the local engineers in:



ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 9
(a)   agreeing with the RTE an appropriate survey program, and supervising that program to
ensure valid date collection;
(b)   specifying appropriate satellite imnagery for procurement by the BWDB  and its
interpretation and evaluation;
(c)   supervising data storage on the relevant data bases and its subsequent retrieval for
perfornance analysis for both revetrnent profiles and river planform using appropriate
software packages;
(d)   review of data collected for both river characteristics and perfomiance of the works and its
comparison with the specific design criteria and assumptions for the works; and
(e)   refinement of river behavior predictors.
This input could conceivably be achieved on an intermittent basis with, say, a three month initial input to
ensure implementation of the survey and satellite imagery program and subsequent inputs to ensure the
continuing process of data collection, storage and analysis at appropriate junctions.
26.        Maintenance Management SuDDort. The project would provide counterpart advisors for
each level of the O&M Unit's management for a period of two years. The positions (Table 1) and duties
of these advisors at each level would be as follows:
(a)   A Chief Construction and Maintenance Advisor (level 1, would assist management in the
long term and day-today running of the O&M Unit, in planning and scheduling maintenance
operations and production of materials for maintenance purposes, and to advise in the
procurement of plant for current and future needs;
(b)   An Engineering Advisor (level 3) would advise on the execution of construction and
maintenance work, and advise the Land and Marine Survey Groups in consultation with the
Data Analysis and Monitoring Engineer; and
(c)   A Construction Supervisor (level 4) would advise the Maintenance Units and the Central
Casting and Storage Unit on the practical aspects of construction and maintenance.
Monitoring Equipment Deployment Training
27.        Training in the use of marine survey equipment, survey data base management, analysis and
evaluation, and satellite imagery processing and analysis is required. Pro urement of the equipment for
the above activities will need to be supported by appropriate training packages. It is proposed that the
procurement of the relevant equipment should include an initial period when the equipment supplier
would be required to carry out the activity for one complete package of the relevant work. The advantage
of this approach is that the BWDB would then be confident that the whole system works and that no
unforeseen problems would arise on these areas of the work for which only outline work procedures were
provided. In the cases of the survey data base and its use, and the satellite imagery processing and
analysis, the RTE and HEM could provide the appropriate software and support. The marine survey
equipment and its use is, however, very specialized and it is proposed to let a contract for the initial
survey of all structures and the desired area of river planform. The contract would include for training of
the client's staff while executing the survey and also for handover off the survey equipment and
appropriate spares on completion.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Table 1: Procurement List of O&M Equipment, Plant and Vehicles
TotalNo.
A.   Survey Equinment
1.   Land Based Equipment
-   Theodolite                                                                     2
-   Level and staff                                                                2
-   100m Tape and Repair Unit                                                      2
2.   Marine Survey Equipment
-   Survey Vessel: aluminum hull, twin engine, 40ft long, equipped with
winch, derrick, accommodation, etc. (including mechanical spares)             I
-   Position Fixing Equipment (Microfix or similar)                                2
-   On-Board Personal Computer (PC)                                                1
-   Side-Scan Sonar (Imaginex 855 or similar)                                      I
-   Echo Sounder                                                                   1
-   Hydrographic Survey Computer Program                                           1
-   On-Board 43 x-y Plotter                                                        1
-   On-Board Printer                                                               1
-   Shore-Based Printer                                                            1
-   Recording Tide Gauge                                                           I
-   Current Meter (direct reading, electromagnetic)                                1
3.   Computer Equipment for Survey Data Processine
(a)  Hardware
- Model 486 PC (80mb, 4mb RAM)                                                2
- Dot Matrix Printer (24 pm. wide carriage)                                   2
- A2 Color Printers                                                           2
(b) Software
- SANDS (including license for INFAMEX data base)                             1
- SIMPLEPLOT and GRIDDER/CONTOURER                                            1
4.   Computer Equipment for Satellite Imaxerv Processinx
-   Model 486 Computer (PC)                                                        1
-   Digitizer (Al size)                                                            I
-   Plotter (AI size)                                                              I
-   GIS Software: PC ARC (INFO Module), PC TINS, DGPS, Trimble, Hydro, Land        8
-   Contour, Profile.
B.   Marine and Land Plant
1.   Tug (650 HP)                                                                       1
2.   Barge (150 tonne)                                                                   1
3.   Barge (60 tonne)                                                                    1
4.   Pontoon (with hydraulic arm)                                                        1
5.   RB CH 50 crane                                                                      1
C.   Vehicles
4WD Land Cruiser                                                                   2
Cars 3
4WD Pick-Up                                                                        I
Jeep 2



RIVERRANKJPGummhI  PRQJo
OPEPRATIONS AND MAINTENANCE (O&M  tINIT ORGANOGRAM                                          MANAGEMENT
LEVELS
Superintending Engineea
O&M
L STRATEGIC
logra Cimrcl                                                                                     MANAGEMENT
Central Scrvice Group
Executive Engineer                                                                                  2. MONITORING.
EVALUATION.
WORK PLANNING
SCHEDULING rOR
SURVEY AND
MAIN'TENANCEi
WORK
Strucbzn Monitoring ii~~~      Survey Equipment               River Planform Moni
Sbwtu MoniofingGroupMaintenance Workshop                              (Owup
Sub-dvisional Engineer
Sub-divisional Engineer                  Electronic Engineer            (Du anlyi + Monitorng)
Marine Survey GrouAp                                                          NI
Land Survey Gmup                                      ~~~~~~~~~~- Boat Baiwd Technicians                                   MARINE SURVEY
- Land Base Technicians
4. WORKS
II                   ~~~~MAINTENANCE
Marie msntnmncoLand Band Mannw                    ICauzacasting & SloaU          IMPLEMIENTATION
SupervsmsaTeiaddeq  doozA.&Tecbidin                  &V  rwl       .Irs 



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Environmental Impact Assessment
1.         In considering the possible enviromnental impacts of the project, it is important to remain
aware of the scale of the works in relation to the natural processes that are occurring due to bank erosion by
the Brahmaputra river. The natural condition along the right bank of the river is that of extensive erosion.
The project's bank stabilization works are relatively small, both in area and in their effect when set against
the present river regime. World Bank and FAP draft Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment
have been followed in the assessment of environmental impacts.
A. Assessment and Mitination of Siynificant Imnacts
Brick Maling
2.         Backeround. Because of the severe shortage of stone in the country and the high cost of
tansporting it from the border areas where it is available, it is common practice in Bangladesh to crush
bricks for use as coarse aggregate in concrete. Brickfields are developed on rented land close to a source of
clay, and are temporary works operating only in the dry season. Traditionally, brick kilns have used timber
or coal as fuel, with a preference for timber which is a locally produced resource. To preserve the rapidly
dwindling stocks of timber, a prohibition on timber firing in brickfields was introduced in 1983/84.
Nevertheless, timber is still extensively used in present brick-making operations. To produce 100,000
bricks, brickfields require about 23 tonnes of coal for firing, or 57 tonmes of timber.
3.         Impacts. Whilst in operation, the brick works deny land for cultivation. Where clay is close
to the surface, firmers will often sell the top few feet for brick-making, and deep localized borrow pits are
created which have no future use either for crops or artisanal fisheries. However, the main concern in
environmental terms is the use of timber as fuel in the brick works. The options open for the main
revetment armor layer involve the use of either brick or crushed stone aggregates for the manufacture of
cement concrete blocks, or the importation of quarry rock. Because of the large quantities of materials
involved and the unpredictability of logistical constraints on the supply of the materials, it is considered
prudent to plan for the possible use of all three options. The final choice, which may include a combination
of the options, will be made during the bid evaluation stage. The minimum project requirenent would be
17.5 million bricks (equivalent to the annual output from 13 double-burner brick works) if rock armor is
used. If bricks were used as the only source of aggregate, the requirement of over 150 million bricks would
be equivalent to the annual output from 117 double-burner brick works. The project would demand a
minimum of an extra fuel use equivalent to 4,000 tonnes of coal or about 10,000 tonnes of timber,
increasing (with the use of brick aggregate) to 35,000 tonnes of coal or about 87,000 tonnes of timber.
Within the project area the timber would normally come from the village forests (the copses of fruit, shade
trees and banboo planted around the villages). There is concern lest the recent trend in the use of bamboo
roots to fire brick kilns may, in the longer term, reduce the stock of bamboo, which is the main housing
material for katcha homes (more than 90% of rural housing). Whilst this increase in brick production
locally would certainly provide a positive benefit in the form of increased local labor and services during the
life of the project, the continuing use of timber for brick works in the area is a matter of considerable



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
concern. This concern arises from the incremental impact on timber resources that the project would
impose in the present apparently uncontrolled situation.
4.         Mitigation. A minimnum number of bricks are required for the project and the full impact of
production cannot be offset by mitigation. There will be a degree of land degradation and localized
increased in dust and soot levels during the project period. The use of fuel cannot be avoided, but a
contractual imposition can be placed on the civil works contractor whereby he is obliged to obtain bricks
only from specifically approved coal-only fired kilns. This has to be enforced through independent, regular
monitoring of brick suppliers by the Engineer. The question of the larger scale use of bricks as aggregate
for the main armonng for the bank protection works is more difficult.  The brickfields will bnng
considerable local employment for the production period, which must be seen as positive benefit, while the
use of quarried rock could add significantly to the cost of materials. There are two possible ways by which
this problem can be reduced:
(a)   place a contractual obligation on the contractor to guarantee to obtain bricks from specified,
coal-only fired kilns, enforced through independent inspection of the designated brick works
by the Engineer, as part of project monitoring; and
(b)   use either gravel aggregate or rock, which would reduce both the project related impacts and
land degradation but involve a lower local employment benefit and a higher cost of materials.
Both these options have been incorporated into the project's ICB contract documents (Table 1, Table 2).
Navigation
5.         BackgrouM. The Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authonty (BIWTA) classifies river
routes and maintains channel depths by dredging where necessary. Their statutory obligation is to maintain
main channels at a Least Available Depth (LAD) of 3.6m-3.9m, while the non-perennial routes are to be
maintained at a LAD of l.5m-1.8m. Within the project area, the non-perennial LAD is applied. At
Sirajganj there is a railway ferry between the town and Jaganathaganj. There are two inter-city train
services each day using the ferry at Sirajganj, together with local trains. A rough estimate, based on usual
coach numbers/capacity, would suggest a daily ferry traffic of about 2,500 passengers (no coaches are
shipped). Private traffic is more difficult to assess. The BIWTA maintains a pontoon station for river
cargo vessels, which could be used by the contractor for material supply to site. Additional to this major
traffic by ferries and motor vessels is the traffic by country boats. These are small vessels of extremely
shallow draft, capable of loads of up to 35 tons. Country boats moor at any convenient spot. At Sirajganj
the majority of the larger country boats currently moor immediately to the south of the existing revetment
but a few use the bay downstream of Ranigram Groyne. At Sariakandi there is a country boat landing
either side of the Kalitola groyne. The landing is extensively used, providing a direct link from the left bank
to Sariakandi and Bogra markets. In Mathurapara there is no defined landing. Char formation along the
existing right bank provides a shallow, sheltered harbor for small fishing boats and a few country boats.
The banks are very high and steep at this point, and landings are generally made only by fishermen.
6.        .Imacats. The possible impacts on navigation relate mainly to the possible reduction of LAD
by deposition of sediments released in dredging works and the interference caused by the floating discharge
lines. There is the possibility of some minor effect from the former on the moorings downstream of the
works at Sirajganj, but this is expected to be small in relation to the scale of natural channel morphological
changes. It may also be necessary for the contractor to undertake some channel development, particularly
in the Sariakandi/Mathurapara area, if he intends to use motor vessels to bring in materials, as there is no
suitable landing for such boats at present. There is likely to be no disruption to the use of country boats



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 7
during the construction period. Indeed, given the nature of the site at Sariakandi/Mathurapara, it is likely
that there will be an increase of country boat use as a result of the project, which would provide a positive
benefit to a significant portion of the local river commnunities.
7.          Mitigation. The impacts on navigation are thus likely to be small, and experienced only under
dry season conditions and for short periods during the construction phase. There would be no long term
adverse impact. Conditions have been written into the contract specifications to ensure that all impacts on
navigation are minimized (Table 2). Sources of material of hydraulic fill will be sited on the western side of
the main river channel to obviate interference to navigation from the floating pipelines. Sedimentation of the
main shipping channels is therefore unlikely to be a problem if the works are executed to the normal
international standards and properly supervised by the Engineer. Providing motor vessel berths at
Sariakandi/Mathurapara may also disturb sediments, but these are more likely to temporarily impact on
local artisanal fisheries than on any other river traffic. The supervision controls would also apply in this
instance. The railway and pontoon berths are designed to be simply and quickly relocated in response to the
naturally rapidly changing channel conditions. Both Bangladesh Railways (BR) and BIWTA have
considerable experience in this and undertake such action on a routine basis. Provided that good liaison is
maintained between the contractor, through the Engineer, BIWTA and BR, any temporary inpact ansing
from the construction works can be kept to a minimal level. As a further safeguard, provision is being
made in the civil works contract for the Contractor to carry out remedial dredging should the need arise.
Provision has been made in the design of revetments for steps and moorings suitable for bathing and
country boats. Improvement of the ferry landing at Sirajganj is also included.
Dredging and Hydraulic Fill
8.          Backsground. There is a need for both dredging and hydraulic fill operations to be carried out
at both sites of the project works. The concerns about these operations are their possible impacts on
navigation and fisheries, particularly in the dry season, as during the monsoon such operations are reduced,
and the natural sediment transport and flows in the Brahmaputra river are considerably increased. Dredging
operations will, in general, be localized either for contractor's access or for construction of the underwater
portion of the revetments. At Sariakandi/Mathurapara there will be small excess of dredged material that
will have to be safely disposed of, but at Sirajganj the requirements for hydraulic fill will exceed the amount
of material available from dredging during construction of the revetment. In all cases the majority of the
material to be displaced will be the predominantly fine sand of the mobile river bed. Spillage of this
sediment fraction during dredging operations will not travel far. A mathematical simulation of dredging
operations has demonstrated that such a material will create a narrow ellipsoidal plume with a maximum
spread of about 1,500m at a 1mg/l concentration. This would keep the sediments within the localities of
the project sites, and impact would be confined to these local areas.
9.         Impacts. The nature of impacts on fisheries in the area are difficult to quantify. The baseline
productivity for artisanal fisheries has already been considerably damaged and the works will have no
significant permanent further impact. There will be some temporary disruption of local artisanal fishing,
especially around Sariakandi/Mathurapara. This disruption may be as much due to migration of fish away
from an area of considerably activity, as by sediment plumes that may be released during dredging. The
scale of this disruption will depend on the season, and the degree of control over the shore and channel
dredging, and the hydraulic fill operations. From the scale of the sediment plume it is clear that the impact
will only by localized and the larger part of the width of the river will be unaffected. The direct impact in
terms of disturbance and. turbidity will be confined to a zone extending 500m from the river bank. The
remaining width of the channel will not be significantly affected and would not disturb fish migration. Since
the material that is being dredged from the river bed is confined to the zone within the natural scour depth,
i.e., the material that is regularly being reworked by the river through the erosion and deposition of chars,



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 7
there will in this case by no risk of disturbing accumulations of toxic or otherwise undesirable materials
(there are no known concentrations of such materials in the river bed) or along the Brahmaputra right
bank).
10.        Mitigation. The potential problems arising from the spillage of sediments will be controlled in
two ways:
(a)   ensuring that the area affected by the sediment plume is relatively small; and
(b)  the control of the deposition of discharged dredged material by the use of temporary bunds,
sediment basins and other measures.
Provision for implementing both these have been specifically built in to the civil works contract
specification and they will be enforced by the Engineer through the powers vested in him by the standard
ICB type conditions of contract (Table 1, Table 2). The disruption to artisanal fin-fish fisheries during the
six month construction period, especially in the Sariakandi/Mathurapara area cannot be wholly avoided.
However, this disruption is only temporary and can be partially mitigated by designing the work program to
move from north to south, thus allowing completed areas in the north to be used for fishing as works move
southward with the river flow. There should be little disruption to the fish-spawn fishery, since dredging
works by their nature will cease with the onset of the monsoon (between May-June). Where local fishermen
identify suitable fish-spawn catch areas (which may vary from year to year), care would be taken to avoid
construction activity in these areas for the short catching season, and to carry out necessary dredging from
areas downstream where possible. The main areas of concern for this fishery may be in the Sirajganj area
(though this is reported to be a collection center rather than a fishery). Suitable provisions are incorporated
in the civil works contract. In all cases close liaison with the local fishermen, and the Department of
Fisheries (particularly the local district office in Sirajganj) will considerably reduce impacts.
Water, Sanitation and Public Health
11.        The works will not, in any foreseeable manner, alter the present situation with regard to water
supply or sanitation to the main dwellings in the project areas. There will be a need to consider some new
provision for these services in the case of the relocation of squatter families in Sirajganj, but for the rest of
the project sites the works proposed should not interfere with existing services. The contractor's facilities at
the sites will create a large temporary concentration of people for whom adequate facilities must be
provided. Public health is generally a matter of hygiene and disease transmission, mainly by water or
vectors. For this reason, the Engineer is given the contractual power to ensure adequate spraying or
drainage to reduce the vector problem. In this regard, three main provisions are incorporated in the
Specifications and Conditions for the civil works contract (Table 1, Table 2). The contractor will be
responsible for:
(a)   provision of adequate dramage of inundation water in the area enclosed by the extension of
the Sirajganj embanlanent, particularly in any areas for temporary re-location of squatter
families. Such drainage will also ensure that sanitation wastes are not brought up through
flooding, and so reduce the risk of water-borne infection in this area;
(b)   spraying of the borrow pits created during the hard point/cross bar construction (particularly
where these are near to temporary work camps, housing). At the end of the project these
borrow pits are expected to be used for crop/fish production;



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 7
(c)   provision and maintenance of satisfactory water supply and sanitation facilities for the
contractor's work force and the Engineer's personnel; and
(d)   making good any damage caused to existing facilities during the construction of the works or
any associated activities.
C. Environmental Monitorin- and Action Plan
Liaison Arrangements
12.        It is important that the construction of the works not only proceed in an environmentally and
socially sensitive manner, but also that the benefits of the works are maximized while any negative impacts
are minimized. This requires a number of continuous actions forming part of an environmental monitoring
and action plan that should begin in the pre-construction phase, and be maintained well after completion of
the project. It is important, therefore, to provide a simple, yet effective, system of monitoring which can be
readily transferred between agencies when the situation demands. This approach demands, at the earliest
moment, an effective open and harrnonious system of liaison between a number of different bodies and
groups. Such a program must operate within the legal, cultural and institutional frameworks that exist in
Bangladesh. The plan has to be flexible and capable of initiating and executing changes by local
institutions and groups, if necessary, in the future.
13.        For the full project benefits to be realized, a system of liaison between institutions and groups
should be set up and maintained. Such liaison will allow all interested parties to become aware of the
progress of the project; allow project decisions to respond to local interests and concerns as they may occur;
provide greater public confidence in the purpose of the project; and ensure the efficient and economic
execution of the works. BWDB will bear the responsibility for developing the system of liaison in
conjunction with the Deputy Commissioners and local authorities, particularly within the localities of the
project sites. The Engineer will have an important part to play in this aspect, and the actual functioning of
the system will reflect his judgements on frequency, type and inputs into the liaison process. At the national
level, BWDB will continue to maintain an ongoing exchange of information with the national bodies
regulating sectors affected by the project. An initial step in the development of a system of liaison is
ensuring a close inter-department systern of monitoring and reporting which includes the environmental and
social aspects of the project. Table I lists the institutions and groups presently identified as being relevant
to these necessary inter-actions.
Monitoring
14.        There are no authorities that at present have the institutional capabilities or resources, at a
local level, to monitor environmental change, or adequately provide a record of environmental and social
change at this time. Accordingly, a method must be found whereby some records can be presented at
regular intervals to allow independent scrutiny and evaluation of any ongoing negative impacts. BWDB
would take on the responsibility for assessing these imnpacts during the course of the project for reporting on
these aspects of the work. After completion of the project the BWDB may continue the process of
monitoring, or may mutually agree to pass this task over to a national or local body which may, by then, be
able to take on this role. Following completion of the works, responsibility for monitoring will be vested in
the specialist BWDB O&M Unit that would be established during the construction phase. The personnel
for this Unit would have been provided with training under the project. This Unit should be given the
responsibility of ensuring the recording of the observed social and environmental changes, and reporting at



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 7
six-monthly intervals (November and May) on these changes. In this regard, the information supplied by
the system of liaison that would set up in the local communities will be very important.
15.        Specifically, the record should contain monthly observations on the following:
(a)   Any squatter or other persons moved from the area to allow works to proceed.  This
information should record number of families affected, number of persons moved, placed to
where they were relocated (if any), date of movement/relocation, any compensation paid or
compensation works undertaken.
(b)   Any reported loss of income or disruption of normal work practices (including artisanal
fishing), houses or shops temporarily closed or vacated as a result of works. This information
should record number of families affected, number and types of businesses affected, number
of persons affected in each family/business, places to where they were relocated (if any), date
of movement/relocation, any compensation paid or compensating works undertaken.
(c)   Any specific aspect of works that caused prolonged disruption to local services (e.g., street
closures, traffic delays, loss of power/communication services, closure of ferry ghats).
(d)   Any change in the nature of the river at any point during construction. Specifically, this
should be done by observation by BWDB and discussion with appropriate authorities (e.g.,
BIWTA, DOF) and local communities, and should report on new channels, chars, sandbanks
or erosion that is occurring, with either sketch maps or subjective quantification of the
changes noted.
(e)   Any concerns, events or actions that have been identified by the liaison and consultation
process, and the results of any meetings, surveys or agreements made through these processes.
These half-yearly records and report should be evaluated both by BWDB and the other regulatory
authorities, and should include the earlier comments of the local pourashava or thanas. It is recommended
that BWDB coordinate with the Department of the Environment (DOE), Ministry of Environment and
Forests (as the identified authority responsible for national environmental monitoring and regulation) to
assist in this evaluation process. Recommendations made as a result of these evaluations should be
communicated to the appropriate authonty, and some follow-up action taken to assess the results of action
taken on these recommendations.
Mitigation Control During Construction
16.        Certain mitigation measures will be applied as a result of the consultation and liaison
processes. Many will be effected by the standard construction impact and nuisance mitigation measures
available under ICB contracts. The Engineer will be responsible for monitoring and enforcing these
measures. In the event that a contractor does not comply with or carry out the measures to the Engineer's
satisfactory, the Engineer may contract a third party to repair the damage and reduce the contractor's
payment accordingly.  The following summarizes the main areas for mitigation that are part of the
monitoring and action plan for the project. Details of the Action Plan and the contact clauses for its
enforcement are given in Table I and Table 2 respectively.
17.        Public Land Acquisition. Consultation processes would be used to determine the future
alignment of the BRE retirement at Sariakandi, assess the disruptions involved and compensation
necessary. The process to be commenced as early as practicable in order to allow time for full consultation



ANNEX S
Page 7 of 7
and feedback into the design procedure. Alignments will be set, as far as possible, to avoid dwellings and
major human disruption.
18.        Contractor's Land Leasing and Site Development.  ICB contract procedures would be
followed to ensure minimal disruption and nuisance in contractor's site development, including a
requirement for adequate consultation of site selection.
19.        Collection and Stockpiling of Materials. The controls applying to the manufacture of bricks
(para. 4) will be strictly enforced. The main civil works contractor will be required to ensure adequate
safety and security measures, and to minimize nuisance under the terms of the ICB contract.
20.         Transvort of Materials. The contractor will be responsible under the terms of his contract for
ensuring that his use of road and water transport causes the minimum degree of congestion and nuisance
and that all necessary action is taken to ensure that the interests of other users are adequately protected. In
addition, prior consultation with the local authorities and with residents and businesses along alternative
routes will be undertaken to facilitate this process. The Importance attached to the contractor's compliance
with the contract conditions should be stressed at the Pre-Bid Conference held during the tender period that
all tenderers will be obliged to attend.
21.         Precasting of Cement Concrete Blocks. The conditions and specification forming part of the
ICB contract will be enforced through the powers vested in the Engineer to ensure that this activity is
undertaken in a safe manner, and that all nuisance and pollution is kept to a minimum.
22.         Dredging and Hydraulic Fill Works. The conditions and specification forming part of the
ICB contract will be enforced through the powers vested in the Engineer to ensure that this activity is
undertaken in a safe manner and such that the interference with fisheries and navigation is kept to a
minimum. Close liaison will be maintained with the BIWTA and the MOF so that the timing and scope of
operations may, as far as practicable, be arranged to minimize impact, given due consideration to the strict
limitations set by the seasonal river conditions during the period of the year available for construction.
23.         Cross-Bar and BRE Retirement Construction. The contractor will be required to comply
strictly with the conditions and specifications for cross-bars incorporated in the ICB civil works contract.
The contractor will be obliged to maintain the form and size of the borrow pits as laid down in the ICB
contract, to ensure that they present no health hazard during the construction phase and to finish off the pits
such that they are left in a condition that is appropriate for productive use in the future. Similar conditions
would be required of local contractors undertaking the BRE retirement at Sariakandi.
24.         Cleaning and Reinstatement of Site. The contractor will clear all debris from the site to
ensure that productive land is not lost through uncleared materials, machinery or works.  Useful
improvements to the site (water supply, drainage, access points, roads) should be handed over in good
condition where provision is made for this in the contract. As with all activities, the contractor will be
required to furnish the Engineer with a detailed Method Statement indicating what materials, machinery and
other debris will be cleared and where and how these will be disposed of; this being to ensure that the
problem of disposal is not merely exported to another area. The contractor will also be required to indicate
how he will restore such works as sediment ponds, spoil tips, etc. Site cleaning will be carefully monitored
in accordance with the ICB contract conditions and financial provision enforced in order to ensure
appropriate reinstatement of the site environment. As a last resort, in the event of contractor default, the
Engineer is entitled to arrange for the work to be carried out by others and the cost deducts from the
contractor's final payment.



ANNEX S
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Action Plan for Monitoring and Mitigating Impacts'
1. Land Acquisition for Permanent Works (Insig, Lo, Irr, LT)
(a) Bank Protection
* Consultation with affected persons and thana chairmen at least 18 months prior to
commencement of construction.
* Fixing of cross-bar alignments to minimize fragmentation of holdings, and avoid interference
with homesteads, etc.
* Timely completion of land acquisition procedures.
* Establish formal liaison and regular meetings between thana chairmen, BWDB Executive
Engineer and contractor, chaired by the Engineer's Representative.
* Construction program to be sensitive to cropping program.
(b) BRE Alinnment
* Consultation with affected persons and thana chairmen at least 18 months prior to
commencement of construction.
* Fixing of alignments to minimize fragmentation of holdings and avoid interference with
homesteads, etc.
* Timely completion of land acquisition procedures.
* Establish formal liaison and regular meetings between thana chairmen, BRE retirement
planners and local contractors, chaired by Executive Engineer (BWDB).
a Construction program to be sensitive to cropping program.
2. Temporary Resettlement of Squatters (Sirajganj) (Sig, LT, Lo)
* Provision made in civil works contract Bills of Quantities and Specification for temporary
resettlement.
* Consultation with affected persons and town authorities at least one year prior to
commencement of construction.
* Final identification of persons affected prior to award of civil works contract.
* Establish formal liaison and regular meetings between town authorities, squatters'
representative, BWDB Executive Engineer and contractor, chaired by the Engineer's
Representative.
* Maintain formal liaison with the District Commissioner.
* Provisions for squatter resettlement according to the Resettlement Plan.
3. Establishment of Contractor's Facilities (Insig, Lo, T. Rev)
* Contractor made solely responsible for legal and financial arrangements for temporary
acquisition of land.
Nature of impacts is described by symbols in parentheses next to impact headings.
Impact Ke:   Sig - Significant; Insig - Insignificant; LT - Long Term; ST - Short Term;
LO - Localized; Rev - Reversible; Irr - Irreversible.



ANNEX5
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
* Establish formal liaison and regular meetings between town/thana authorities, BWDB
Executive Engineer and contractor, chaired by the Engineer's Representative.
* Provisions written into the ICB Contract Conditions and Specifications (Table 2) to cover the
proper establishment of facilities, including adequate attention to sanitation, disease vectors,
noise and dust nuisance.
* Contractor to furnish detailed proposals and drawings for approval of the Engineer prior to
commencement of any work.
* Enforcement of all contract provisions by the Engineer's Representative.
4. Procurement of Clay BicJks (Sig, Lo, ST, Irr)
* Provisions written into the ICB Contract Conditions and Specification (Table 2) to limit the
procurement of bricks for the works to kilns using coal for fuel.
* Contractor to furnish list of kilns (owner and location) for prior approval of the Engineer's
Representative prior to procurement.
* Spot checks to be made to ensure compliance.
* Strict rejection of non-omplying material.
5. Precasting Cement Concrete Blocks (nsig, Lo, ST, Rev)
* Provisions written into the ICB Contract Conditions and Specification (Table 2) to cover the
proper establishment of facilities and abatement of noise and dust nuisance.
* Contractor to furnish detailed Method Statement for approval of the Engineer prior to
commencement of any work.
* Compliance with provisions and method statement to be monitored and enforced by the
Engineer's Representative.
* Provisions written into the ICB Contract Conditions and Specification (Table 2) making the
contractor responsible for ensuring that his activities do not unreasonably interfere with
navigation, fisheries and road users.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROXECT
List of Clauses Pertainin! to Mitifation of Impacts
1. General Conditions of Contract
Clause No.  Description
8.2        Site Operations and Methods of Construction
13.1        Work to be in Accordance with Contract
19.1        Safety, Security and Protection of the Environment
26.1        Compliance with Statutes, Regulations
29.1        Interference with Traffic and Adjoining Properties
30.1        Avoidance of Damage to Roads
30.2        Transport of Contractor's equipment or Temporary Works
30.3        Transport of Materials or Plant
30.4        Waterborne Traffic
32.1        Contractor to Keep Site Clear
33.1        Clearance of Site on Completion
45.1        Restriction on Working Hours
2. Conditions of Particular Application
Clause No.  Description
34          Labor
34.11       Health and Safety
34.12       Measures Against Insect and Pest Nuisance
34.13       Epidemics
45.1        Restriction on Working Hours
3.  Specification
Clause No.  Description
Part 1      Description of Works
102         Scope of Contract (includes provision for squatter resettlement in Contract No. 2,
Sirajganj)
104         Working Areas (Contractor responsible for temporary acquisition of additional
land)
Part 2      Preliminary and General
214         Sanitary Conveniences



ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
216         Drains, Streams, Watercourses, etc.
220         Access (restriction on construction traffic, etc.)
223         Safety of Adjacent Structures or Works
224         Interference with Existing Works
225         Abatement of Nuisance
231         Contractor's Accommodation (Contractor to furnish details for Engineer's
approval)
241         Temporary Works (Contractor to furnish details for Engineer's approval)
244         Notice to Mariners
245         Navigation
248         Liaison with Public Authorities
Part 3      Earthworks
318         Borrow Pits
Part 4      Dredging and Reclamation
403         Borrow Area (Contract No. 2-other dredging areas shown on the drawings)
408         Discharge into the River
409         Dredging Method Statement
412         Compliance with Regulations
417         Filling in Reclamation Area (including submission of method statement)
Part 5      Concrete
504         Aggregates - General
504(5)      - source to be approved by the Engineer
505         Coarse Aggregate
505(5)      - requirement to use only coal-fired kilns for bricks
Part 6      Revetment Works
617         Rock Armor (alternative armoring to cc blocks)
617(2)&(S)  - quarry rock to be supplied only from sources approved by Engineer
617(8)      Brick Filter Layer (bricks to conform to Sub-Clause 505(5)\
619         Revetment Construction Method Statement
Part 7      Roads (Contract No. 2 only)
703         Aggregate Sources for Bitumen Macadam (subject to the Engineer's approval)
Part 8      Piling (Contract No. 2 only)
801         Piling Plant and Methods
801(1)      - Contractor to submit details for the Engineer's approval
806         Disturbance and Noise



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Accumulated
IDA Fiscal Year        Semester        Disbursements            Disbursements
1996                 I                 -                        _
II                25.2                    25.2
1997                 1                 25.2                    50.4
II                16.7                    67.1
1998                 I                 16.8                    84.0
II                16.4                   100.3
1999                 I                 16.4                   116.8
II                 2.2                   118.9
2000                 I                  2.2                   121.2
II                 0.4                   121.5
2001                 1                  0.4                   121.9
II                -



RANGLAIU
RIVIR BANK PROTBCTIOk PROJECT
Project Coot   _ m.ry
(Taka '000                                            fUSS 'o000
I      I Total                                        1       1 Total
Foreign    Base                                       Foreign    Base
Local           Foreign    Total   Exchange    ojstj    Ta l    Foreign    Totl   Exchbance    Costs
A. River Bank Protection
Sariakandi                    378,287.7 257,235.3 635,523.0           40         12   9,433.6   6,414.8  15,848.5            40         12
Mathurapara                   612,381.0 361,879.0 974,260.0           37         18  15,271.3   9,024.4  24,295.8            37         18
Kalitola                      258,567.4 143,664.6 402,232.0           36          7   6,448.1   3,582.7  10,030.7            36          7
Sirajganj                     1,622,784 666,000.4 2,288,785           29         42  40,468.4  16,608.5  57,076.9            29         42
BRE                            57,365.4   7,310.6  64,676.0            11         1   1,430.6       182.3   1,612.9          11          1
BWB-Operational Support       344.441.3 37S.932.3 720.373.F           52         13   8.95896   9.374.9  17.964.4A            2         13
Subtotal River Bank Protection 3,273,827 1,812.022 5,085,849              36        94  81,641.6  45,187.6 126,829.2            36         94
B. National Water Planning         97,.2854 21.215_3 311.s10.7            69          6   2.,426.1   5.342.8   7.768.8          69          6
To'tal BASLINR COSTS               3,371,112 2,026,268 5,397,380           38        100  84,067.6  50,530.4 134,598.0           38        100
Physical Contingencies          412,571.9 238,794.8 651,366.6            37        12  10,288.6   5,955.0  16,243.6            37         12
Price Contingencies             238.363.5 152.070.4 390.43.i9            39         7   L,052.-S   2-lll.5 . 164.0             41          4
Total PROJECT COSTS                4,022,048 2,417,133 6,439,180           38        119  97,408.7  58,596.8 156,005.6           38        116
Sat Oct 28 10:57:23 1995
1-1 Project Cost Su _ ary



BANG LADES H
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Project Cost Suary
_         ITk'001_                  Total -                       U.S6f ~ ' 02'    -     i ToIio
Foreign    Base                                        Foreiqn    Base
Local_  Fsr_eiq_n    Total   Exchange    Coss          Local    Foreign    Total   Exchiona        Cost-,
1. Investment Costs
A. River Bank Protection
1. Civil works
Major Civil Works                                            2,697,266 1,447,191 4,144,457            35         77  67,263.5  36,089.5 103,353.0            35         77
Minor Civil Works                                             48,901.4   7,310.6  56,212.0            13          1   1,219.5       182.3   1,401.8          13          1
Land Acquisition                                              32,405.0           -  32,405.0           -          1      808.1          -      808.1          -          1
Resettlement                                                  28,319.6           -  28,319.6           -          1      706.2          -      706.2          -          1
BWDB Project Management                                      142.9S65            - 12,.5               -          3   3.565.0           - 3565.0                         3 
Subtotal Civil works                                            2,949,849 1,454,501 4,404,350            33         82  73,562.3  36,271.9 109,834.2            33         82
2. Technical Assistance
a. Project Preparation and Implementation Support
International Specialists                                          - 180,049.0 180,049.0         100           3          -   4,490.0   4,490.0          100          3
Local Specialists                                          59,267.8           -  59,267.8           -          1   1,478.0           -   1,478.0           -          1
Local Staff                                                10   27-  1,9L27L 3                                   ...272.2.5~          ....,272,l ______               -
Subtotal Project Preparation and Implementation Support  70,195.1 180,049.0 250,244.1                 72          5   1,750.5   4,490.0   6,240.5            72          5
c. Institutional Development/Capacity Building
International Specialists                                         -   9,624.0   9,624.0          100           -          -     240.0      240.0         100
Local Specialists                                                  -   2.,406.   2,406 .0        100           -          -      60.0        60.0        100          -
Subtotal Institutional Development/Capacity Building                  -  12,030.0  12.030.0          100                     -      300.0      300.0        100          -
d. Operating Costs                                            11,009.5   1,942.8  12,952.3            15          -      274.6       48.5      323.0         1S          -
e. Equipment                                                  23,242.0  16,601.4  39,843.4            42          1      579.6      414.0      993.6         42          1
f. Training - RACs                                                    -   2,.005.0   20050           100          -          -       50.0       50.0        100          -
Subtotal Technical Asistance                                    104,446.5 212,628.2 317,074.7            67          6   2,604.7   5,302.5   7,907.1            67          6
3. Works Maintenance
Survey and OSM Equipment                                    125,536.6  89,669.0 215,205.6            42          4   3,130.6   2,236.1   5,366.7            42          4
0tM Recurrent Cost                                            38,719.3  43,784.5  82,503.8            53          2      965.6   1,091.9   2,057.5           53          2
BWDB Management                                               43,.864.3   3 ,2e8.0  47.52.S2  .        7            1 1093.9         82.0   1.17              7          1
Subtotal Works Maintenance                                      208,120.1 136,741.5 344,861.6            40          6   5,190.0   3,410.0   8,600.0            40          6
4. Vehicles                                                      11,.411.4  8,.151.0  19.,5624           42                 284.6  __2031         487.8         42
Subtotal River Dank Protection                                      3,273,827 1,812,022 5,085,849           36         94  81,641.6  45,187.6 126,829.2             36         94
S. National Mater Planning
1. MARPO Management and Support
Personnel                                                      6,600.0           -   6,600.0           -          -      164.6          -      164.6
2. Technical kseistaneo
b. Policy Support
International Specialists                                          -   9,624 .0   9,624.0        100           -          -     240.0      240.0         100
Local Specialists                                         1.92.8A             -  l.9Z.8             -          -      48.0           -       48.0 
Subtotal Policy Support                                        1,924.8   9.624.0  11,548.8            83          -       48.0      240.0      288.0         83          -
c. Institutional Development/Capecity Building
international Specialists                                          - 171,628.0 171,628.0         100           3          -   4,280.0   4,280.0          100          3
Local Specialists                                          38,.439.           -  38.439.9                      I     9.                     958.6         I-
Subtotal Institutional Development/Capacity building          38.,439.9 171628.0 210.067.9            82          4      9586   4,280.0  5.,238.6            82          4
Subtotal Technical Aasistance                                    40,364.7 181,252.0 221,616.7            82          4   1,006.6   4,520.0   5,526.6            82          4
3. Equipment                                                     10,134.1   6,688.7  16,822.8            40          -      252.7      166.8      419.5         40
4. Vehicles                                                      22,643.3  16,173.8  38,817.1            42          1      564.7      403.3      968.0         42           1
S. Training
Poreign Training                                                      -   7,619.0   7,619.0          100          -          -      190.0      190.0        100          -
Local Training                                               .    9.5.           -     595*5           -          -                     -      ,14 .9    14.9..
Subtotal Training                                                    595.5   7,619.0   8,214.5           93          -       14.9      190.0      204.9         93
6. Operating Costs                                               16,j7.9  2,.511.9  19.459.7             13            4- A22.6         62.6      48.3          13          -
Subtotal National M4ater Planning                                    97,2854 2,2          311.,5307         69           6  2..   .     5,.342.8   7.768.8          69          6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     3,371,112 2,026,268 5,397,380            38        100  84,067.6  50,530.4 134,598.0            38        100
Physical Contingencies                                                 412,571.9 238,794.8 651,366.6            37         12  10,288.6   5,955.0  16,243.6            37         12
Price Contingencies                                                    238.363.5 I5ilQ20174 3910A1_             39          7   3.052.5 . 2,111.5       5.164.0        41          4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                      4,022,048 2,417,133 6,439,180            38        119  97,408.7  58,596.8 156,005.6            38        116
Sat Oct 28 10:51:08 1995
2-1 Project Cost Sunrnary
ii
coA



BANGLADLSN
RrVER MAMK PRarSMION PROJECr
Rxpmditure Acenet  by Tears
(USs '000)
Totals Tncluding CQntingenries
19gfi     1997       1998      19%9       2Q        Tot-I
1. Investment Costs
A. River bank Protection
1. Civil works
Major Civil Works                                           56,597.7  32,747.4  30,099.7       700.8      90.2 120,235.9
Minor Civil Works                                                  -          -     670.2      986.5          -   1,656.8
Land Acquisition                                               404.0     466.6      104.1      106.8         -   1,081.6
Resettlement                                                   145.6     569.8      109.7       77.2          -     902.3
BWDB Project Management                                    _  699.4      8          876.7      753.7     771.5   3.956.7
Subtotal Civil Works                                           57,846.8  34,639.2  31,860.5   2,625.1       861.1 127,833.3
2. Technical Asaistance
a. Project Preparation and l-l_eentatioa Support
International Specialists                                   541.5   1,358.2   2,184.3   1,066.5           -   5,150.6
Local Specialists                                           302.5     650.6      622.9     112.0          -   1,688.0
Local Staff                                              -.i.JU-     AU.3.......lLI. L                    -      32.
Subtotal Project Preparation end Ipl _tation support           897.2   2,117.8   2,918.8   1,217.3            -     312,11.
C. Inatitutional Developmaet/Capacity building
International Specialists                                   267.4         -          -          -         -      267.4
Local Specialists                                            66fi.9.9..h   -         -                               9-  -
Subtotal institutional Developmant/Capacity Building           334.3          -         -          -                334.3
d. operating Costs                                              52.9      108.5     137.8       55.9          -     355.1
e. Equipment                                                 1,107.2          -         -          -          -   1,107.2
f. Training - RACs                                              55.7          -         -          -                   .7
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                   2,447.2   2,226.4   3,056.6   1,273.2            -   9,003.3
3. Works Maintenance
Survey and O&M Equipment                                           -   3,235.1   2,963.9           -              6,198.9
O&M Recurrent Cost                                                 -          -     732.4      859.3     881.1   2,472.8
BEDB Management                                                110.4      197.9     287.0 0    376.      385;8   1.358.0
Subtotal Worka Maint.neaca                                        110.4   3,433.0   3,983.2   1,236.2   1,267.0  10,029.8
4.  vehicles                                                  .....5L.   ------       - ~:    ------ =   ---   ----_   S4
Subtotal River Bank Protection                                    60,948.1  40,298.5  38,900.3   5,134.4   2,128.7 147,410.0
S. national Water Planning
1. *wAUPO Management and Support
Personnel                                                        3.2      43.8       44.8       46.0      47.1      184.9
2. Technical Assistance
b. Policy Support
International Specialists                                    63.6     131.0       67.2          -         -      262.0
Local Specialists                                            12-7      26.0       133 -- -                 -        -20
Subtotal Policy Support                                         76.5      157.0      80.5          -          -     314.0
c. Institutional Development/Capacity Building
International Specialists                                   595.6   1,615.1   1,701.9      827.1          -   4,739.8
Local Specialists                                           112.9     459.9      370. L    10.I6A.6        - 1-049.9
Subtotal Institutional Development/Capacity Building           708.S   2.075.0  2.072,5        933.7              S7- 5.99J
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                     785.0   2,232.0   2,153.0       933.7          -   6,103.7
3. Equipment                                                      467.3          -         -          -          -     467.3
4. Vehicles                                                     1,078.6          -         -                     -   1,078.6
5. Training
Foreign Training                                                30.3      103.7      74.5          -          -     208.4
Local Training                                                   S.2       107          -          -         -       16.0
Subtotal Training                                                  35.5      114.4      74.5          -          -     224.4
6. Operating Costs                                                 63.4      152.8     179.8 _ 116.1         24-5      S36-6
Subtotal National Water Planning                                   2.,43.1   2.543.0   2.452.1  1.095.a          71.6   a..S95..5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    63,381.1  42,841.5  41,352.4   6,230.2   2,200.3 156,005.6
Sat Oct 28 11:12:45 199S
1-1 Expenditure Accounts by Years



BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000       Total
A. River Bank Protection
Sariakandi                      8,613.4   6,452.9   4,198.6             -          -  19,264.9
Mathurapara                    12,275.1   8,049.1   8,704.7        612.8           -  29,641.7
Kalitola                        8,303.3   2,455.1       554.1           -          -  11,312.5
Sirajganj                      28,090.6  17,531.3  17,433.3        753.7      771.5  64,580.5
BRE                                    -          -     815.2   1,135.3            -   1,950.6
BWB-Operational Support         3.665.7   5.8l0.1   7.194.4   2.632.6   1.357.2  20.660.0
Subtotal River Bank Protection  60,948.1  40,298.5  38,900.3   5,134.4   2,128.7 147,410.0
B. National Water Planning          2.433.3.1   2.S430.  2.12.1  1.05.8            71.6   8.55.95
Total PROJBCT COSTS                 63,381.1  42,841.5  41,352.4   6,230.2   2,200.3 156,005.6
Sat Oct 28 11:00:33 1995
4-1 Project Components by Year
I,S



Annex 7
Page 1 of 16
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECFION PROJECI
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
1. Damages Avoided if the Proiect Achieves its Obiectives.
The project will prevent erosion losses and flood damage, and Tables 1 and
2 summarize some of the key monitorable (and easy to measure) indicators which were
used to calculate project benefits (see Annex 8). If the project is wholly unsuccessful in
controlling erosion, then the land and property lost over the 1995 baseline condition would
be that shown in Tables I and 2. If the project is delayed, it is expected that some of the
losses indicated in these tables would occur, and the project benefits would be reduced. If
net losses are less than or equal to those shown in the tables, then the project will have
achieved its full potential.
Table I  Projected Lmxes of Land without the Pro:ect
SriskandUMathurpaan                              Sirjgnij
Cumuatve lose          Annua loas           Cumulative loses       Annual lose
hectares            bectaresyer             hectares           hectars/year
Lend CAtgory                     Years 1-S  Year 6-30  Yea 1-5   Years 6,30   Years I-S  Yea  6-30  Yeers 1-5  Years 6-30
PraoCtAdpoiculaur                      470      3300         94       132          355       3275        71        131
Unproectedauiculwumi land              535      2200        107        88            0          0         0          0
Mart Ituai                              15         0          3         0            0          0         0          0
Urban lad                                0         0          0         0          450        300        90         12
Peiutban land                            0         0          0         0           50        700         10        2S
Upezila HQ lnd                          S0         0         16         0            0          0         0          0
L  ndsrodsdw/oprojec                  1100      5500        220       220          S55       4275       171        171
Unavoidable losses with projet         290      1450         5S        5S          365       1825        73         73
Netlandareapreaevedbytheprojie         S10      4050        162        162         490       2450         98        9S



Annex 7
Page 2 of 16
Table 2
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Table 2 Without Project Infrastructure and Property Losses Ycars 1-S
Unit      Mathurapara   Sariakandi    Sirajganj
Property and Infra. Category
Property Losses/Displacement
Public Buildings
Pucca                           No.                 20            0           75
Semi-Pucca                      No.                 15            S           33
Commercial and Industrial
Pucca                           No.                  0            0           S0
Semi-Pucca                      No.                  0            0           25
Private Houses and Shops
Pucca                           No.                  6            0          250
Semi-Pucca                      No.              1.620         700         6,750
Katcha                           No.              1,620         700         3,300
Infrastructure Losses/
Displacement
Roads
Pucca                           km.                  6            0           25
Katcha                           km                 15           10            15
Bridges/Culverts                 No.                10            4           25
Railways
Embankments                     km.                  0            0            1
Bridges/Culverts                No.                  0            0            2
Ferry landings                   No.                  0            0            2
Power and Telephone Lines        Km.                 10            2           50



Project Objective                        Input/Activity                      Output Indicator                  Development Impact
Indicators
*   Review of the Draft National Water Plan   *   Dralt NWP presented to NWC  *  An acceptable National Water
by GOB and IDA.                          and views of NWC recorded and      Plan.
acted upon; sirnilarly for IDA
comments.
* Public review (see below).
*   Public consultation.                 *  Involvement of NGOs in the      *   Socially acceptable plan.
consultation process.
* Local and regional consultation at
planning and design stage.
* View of stakeholders on record,
including divergent views.
* Mitigation measures designed and
built in the implementation plans.
* Feedback to PAPs and
stakeholders on record.
*  Enviromnental management planning     *  Baseline surveys implemented.   Enviromnentally sustainable plan.
(EMP).                               *   Control areas selected.
* Monitoring indicators selected.
* Mitigation measures recorded and
taken into account in planning
process.
8. BWDB Regional Accounting Centers    *   MIS and computers installed.       *  60 computers and software sets
operational and effective.                                                        and 40 fax machines procured.
*  Training in double entry book-keeping;    *  BWDB recruits trainers; training    *  Operational RACs.
computeized accounting.                  of trainers implemented; training
plans designed and implemented
9. Improve BWDB's MIS and project    *  TA through RBPP implementation        *   40 computer and software sets and  Faster communication to field, more
supervision capability.                  consultants.                             40 fax machines procured.      frequent site visits, up-to-date project
*   Purchase of management software      *  MIS systems set up at HQ and    monitoring database available.
packages.                                field offices.
*  Training in MIS.                      *  Training plans designed and
*   Provision of cars and boats to improve   implemented.
field supervision.                   *   5 vehicles and 4 speed-boats
procured.
4 



Table 3 Project Objectives,Inputs and Outputs, and Development Impact Indicators
Project Objective                          Input/Activity                         Output Indicator                   Development Impact
Indicators
1. Ensure Sound Contract Management    *   GOB appoints Project Director and       *   GOB Confirmation of
Project Coordinator.                       appointment and staff posted.
*   GOB fully staffs Project Management and  *   Established PMRU office at
Resettlement Unit (PMRlU).                 Bogra.
*   Executive Engineers' Offices
established at Sariakandi and
Sirajganj.
*   GOB establishes Dispute Review Board    *   Notification of names of the 4   *   Effective and timely settlement of
(DRB) for each District.                   members of DRB.                       disputes.
*   GOB seconds engineering staff to       *   Secondment completed by 6/30/96   *   GOB staff trained in the
Consultants' supervision team.         *   - 6 senior engineers                  management of ICB contracts.
*   - 10 mid-level/junior engineers
*   GOB separates financial approval       *   Executive Engineers' approval of   *   Clear and transparent records of
authority of Executive Engineer from       Monthly Measurement.                  separate approval of measurement
disbursement by Regional Accounting    *   Monthly payment of contractors        and subsequent payment or
Centers (RCA).                             by RCA or approval of                 approval of processing to IDA by
recommendation transmitted to        RCA.
BWDB Dhaka for IDA               *   Timely payment of contractors'
reimbursement.                       monthly billings.
*   Consultants' fielded staff are suitably  *   GOB approval of staff.
experienced and qualified.
*   Consultants implement Quality          *   Contractors' QA laboratories and
Assurance (QA) program.                    standards available for inspection.
*   Accurate works measurement.            *   Measurement technicians,
including divers, understand job
requirements.
*   Critical Path management tools adopted.   *   Critical path charts or computer
displays available on site
*   NCB procurement and Local Shopping.    *   Consultant/BWDB follows
recommended advertising, number
of bids, contract approvals.
   Routine reporting to BWDB and IDA.     *   Reports submitted as required by
Annex 9.
0 4s



Project Objective                         Input/Activity                       Output Indicator                   Development Impact
Indicators
*   Drawings for completed "as-built" works.  *   Regularly updated as works
progress; agree with monthly
measurement statements.
*   Envirounent Management Plan (EMP)    *   Records of monitoring program    *   Envirownental impacts during
implemented.                              and mitigation measures             construction do not exceed those
implenented.                        expected.
*   GOB staff demonstrate knowledge
of EMP.
2. Ensure O&M unit is established and  *   GOB selects and appoints international    *   IDA no objection.
trained.                                  consultants (Annex 4 para 26).
*   GOB sets up O&M unit at Sirajganj.    *   O&M unit fully staffed (see
Annex 4, Figure 1).
*   Implementation Consultants prepare    *   GOB requests IDA's no-objection
procurement documents for ICB of O&M      to procurement methods and
equipment (Annex 4, Table I).             documentation.
*   ICB notices posted.
* Bids received.
*   Consultants evaluate bids and prepare  *   GOB requests IDA's no-objection
recommendation for GOB.                   to their recommended supply
contractors and costs.
*   IDA no objection.                     *   Delivery to Sirajganj of O&M
equipment listed in Table 1, of
Annex 4.
*   Regular reporting of O&M status.      *   Monthly reports.
*   Regular maintenance of O&M            *   Operational status of O&M       *   Trained staff not posted away
equipment.                                equipment.                          from O&M Unit.
3. Implementation of Policies contained    *   Public information about the project  *   Notices at site in Bangla,  *   Public aware of projects impacts
within the Resettlemnent Action Plan      displayed at site.                         Brochures distributed; information  on local populace.
(RAP).                                                                               booth/center established at site.
*   GOB Resettlement Staff Posted to each    *   Staff posted include: Revenue
site.                                     Officer (land acquisition); a
Resettlment and Public Relations
Officer, an Accountant, an
accounts assistant, a surveyor, a
chainmnan, typist and a messenger.
*   All Project Affected People (PAPs) are  *   NGO partner in resettlement
identified.                               program recruited and fielded.
4



Project Objective                         Input/Activity                        Output Indicator                  Development Impact
Indicators
*   Level of compensation determined.     *   Joint verification of value of
assets and property to be acquired
as approved by the DC.
*   Equitable and timely payment of       *   Random checks among PAPs.       No grievances taken to the District or
compensation.                         *   Check with NGO partner.         Central Courts.
*   Check with RAP Grievance
Commnittee.
*   Check BWDB's and DC's
records.
*   420 households resettled and or
compensated.
*   Effective assistance with re-establishing    *   Resettlement center and social  *   GOB rehabilitates PAPs.
homestead and income earning capacity.    facilities established at Sirajganj.
* NGO partners ongoing programs
to resettle PAPs and implement
skills training.
*   Monitoring records for each PAP
family available for inspection.
4. No PAP is made worse off by the    *   Monitoring and survey of PAPs.        *   Establish baseline of socio-
project.                                                                            economic and financial status
prior to project implementation.
*   Survey PAPs after relocation to establish
new socio-economic and fuiancial status.
*   Survey PAPs affected by the project but    *   Relative status of PAPs    *   PAPs successfully re-established
not relocated.                            with/without project.               in new location or in area affected
by the project.
5. Data and Results of the Flood Action    *   Records and reports transferred to  *   FAP Library established in
Plan (FAP) are institutionalized.         WARPO.                                     WARPO.
*   FAP computerized database
established in WARPO.
*   FAP Environmental Cell established in  *   FAP environmental staff        *   WARPO Staff able to apply EIA
WARPO.                                    transferred to WARPO.               guidelines and screen projects.
*   GIS under FAP transferred to WARPO.    *   GIS computers and softwear     *   WARPO staff can effectively use
routines installed in WARPO.        GIS for routine work.
*   FAP report review process adopted by  *   Records of report review process.   *   Public access library established.
WARPO.
..



Project Objective                         Input/Activity                       Output Indicator                   Development Impact
Indicators
6. Technical capacity of WARPO        *   Multi-disciplinary staff appointed to head   *   Planning reports reflect a multi-    *   Broad-based water sector
enlarged to meet National Water Plan      WARPO Directorates (cf para 2.29 SAR).     disciplinary input not dominated    planining,
needs.                                                                               by engineering.                 *   Institutionally sustainable.
* Economists/and training
specialists available for
consultation.
*   Peer review of WARPO work plans and    *   International and local Panel of  *   Unbiased planning of the highest
outputs.                                  Experts formed; records of their    technical quality.
reviews and responses.
*   International Consultants to guide in  *   Training plan for WARPO staff.    *   Trained water sector planning
planning practices standards and      *   Regular training courses.           staff capable of operating without
methodology.                          *   Overseas training.                  expatriate assistance.
* Trained staff retained by
WARPO.
*   Procurement of 20 computer sets and   *   WARPO computer and modeling    *   Productive computer modeling
software; 4 photocopiers; 6 fax machines;  capability enhanced; publication   and publications center.
training in desk-top publishing.          and information dissemination
facilities established
7. Ensure National Water Planning     *   Policy guidance from National Water    *   Policy guidelines for NWP
(NWP) is relevant to national needs.      Council (NWC).                             available in WARPO.
*   Water Policy Advisory Group established.  *   Team members (5) appointed, 3    *   Water and institutional planning
internationally.                    that reflects broader water sector
*   Regular visits, meetings and        reform and development agenda.
policy papers produced to guide    *   All sub-sectors agree that the
WARPO.                              NWP covers their needs
*   Planning includes all water users -  realistically and they are fully
check with them.                    taken into account.
*   Macro-economic and national     *   Enabling with/without impacts of
budget data used to guide plan      NWP implementation to be
formulation process.                determined.
*   Without (NWP) scenario is part of
NWP.
-4



BANGLADESH- RIVERBANK PROTECTION PROJECT -Procurtment Schedule
1!                          19951 196                                                 _M   1991                                                       _                   24
ID  Nu                                                                                         Ql  Q2 I Ql I Q4                             Q             | Q2I                                                                                                   _ Q0  __ I Q4 Ql  Q10  Q4  _ Q2 |    Q1
1  SIRAJGANJ                                                                                         -.               s                                 I 1                        -                                                               _0
2             Pij.ifabom - A-v_| P- c r-ma-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....... ....... .... . ..... ...... |_. v_.+ ... .... +.... ..... ..... ... _...  ....... .... ... ........ ........ .... .... ........ .. . ... .. ..... ........ ........
6_____i_- Ad-vam* tmana                                                             *|--- 1- -7 /-27                                                                                                                                         -             -
7  1_                                                                                     ....... ........ ...... .    ,_1 9,t, +-             ,,   ---|----                                            -     -     ---*                                -
9 TA IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT ~~~~~~~....... ........ 1 .-. ...-.|.;.    11 .. ...... ...  ... _.....                                                                    .       . .......                       ... ........      _      .     ....  .... ........ .
5  SARIAKANDI/MATHURAPARA                                                                                          131                                   i/JO
10 Consulbnis - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .|  t-'1-  -l' .l.l...                          .......    .. .....              ........   ........   ........ ........   ........   .. . ..    .. ...    ....... ....   ........   ........ ........   .......   .......    .......   ....   ....... ....
6             Praaalaficaia  - Aivanc   Proctmancn
16 Re ' ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......   . ........ . |    1 '    '' ......   .......                            .....   .......    ..... .. :   '. ........   .. .. ....... .   ........   . ......_  .._..  .......  ....  ........   . ...... . ........   .. . . ....... ..... .... .... ....
7       Bidding -AMvancc?oct aranern9adeg2
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                               ......  .......   .......   ...            ........ .....    ..  .....   .......| ........   l.  . .....  .......   ........ ........  ......   ..... .   ........  ........   .......   ....... .. ..    ....... I.. .. ....
I      CMAtgu Award                                                                                                                       Q    13
18   Equipment Procurement                                          ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ........ .......... ..........| | ...  - .1   "--, .. ..... ....  .....  ..... ..... .....  ...... ......... ... .
Lt^w   1--1-1--:1::1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .-.......--S ........                                                      ....    .....  .... 1   :  1  ..    ....       . ..  .1.........:...-..... .:........ ....                ....  ....:.... ....1....
10             Consultants                                                                                            3_  _ -
II                   PantTamauof Rcrpaa                                                                                3I  004-
12                   Impa|rerrrepoal                                                                                        -t  /lM I 10/1o
13                   NegoaiaaiauI                                                                                                       A
03  11/16
14                   Cairut Award                                                                                              J1 U/I
15             Disputes Review Board                                                                                                              93
16  Reauibnad                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~7/17    ~ 9I
17  O&M SUPPORT                                                                                                                          I  i'i                                                    5130...
1s             Equipment Procurement                                                                                                                                               MEN NW. .                                             . ... ...
19                   hprurs DB  Doaamata                                                                                                        I/l                  6/3
___________________________~~~~.   ...... ....                                      ..  .    ..        ...- . I..............................                                           .............               .....................
20                    Bidding (ICB)                                                                                                      a                                                      .       .        -.-.1- ./
2 1                   supply                                                                                                             a                                                       130---  ......    .....  .... ........  ...
22                   Catgut Award                                                            ,   ..B I                                                                             12.
23              Vehicles and Miscellaneous                                                                                                                                                                                                -.-
______________________________~~~~... ...                                     .-.-..       ...    .     .. ......     ...          ..                 .--....-               ...     ..................................
24                   Fyqaires"pec iic*aaa                                                                                                                      1       7131
25                   NCB/L.mI Shoping Stais..                                                                                                                              .,.. ..U.                                                                                       .
_____________________                                                                                          _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VICD 



BANGLADESH- RIVERBANK PROTECTION PROJECT -Procurement Scbedule
__ 1994                _9                     19_          [        1997                    sn9                   199_   20
ID  Namw                                                                           9! Q2!Q1Q 5.1 Q                  2 IQ  21102 Q31Q41QIjQ2  3Q4Q 13    102!2Q!2! 1 02 0  2 .! Q2
26                Supply Stea                                                                                   I                               IlI
I                           a) [its
27           TA Maintenance & Support                                                                                             _._...- - ' '-'
2l               Prqpe TemRa oRence                                                                                                   10/l    12/2
19_ _N_               _t__                                                   ... . ............ ._ _.._  . ........ ...  .      ...-... ..-....... .                ....             .     ...    ...
29                Nqi8c                                                                                                                      /I      2/33
_0    1C                w                                                      .......  ........ ........  .......  ........  ........  A .....  ........   ......I...........    .. _W_.....  .... ......  .. . . . _  ._   ..... ...  ...  ........  .......
3 0  t ^wi Fsi _  . ......    ........   _ ..... ..... ...... j .... ....... ..... ...... ._. ,i sto ..... ....... ...........        ........    ...... - .- .    ..   .................. ...........   ........
30         ConIt~ Awuid & Sipinjsj 
31_ _ _ _ _ _Cl_ _OES_......._......._......_....._......_..._ _ _ _..._........_..___ ... . ... . .  . . ....  ........  . ......   ........ .......
31  M9NRIIWRS....~..L. 
32          Dd  Nil      B) D--    1                                                                                                                                                      ..    -    - B    it
____ ____ ___|___ ___ ____ _M_                                                                 *                                      4/4LTE             /A
.           -       .        -    ..-3/31
34    fliddina NCB)                                                                                                                                                                                  . ...4....... .......
35_           _  __g_a_            _  _  __w_            _  _.......   .......    ......    ....... .
Critical                                             ietoe             SCOMPLETED   MR =c
Project: BANGLADESHI - RI    Neneritical                                                           S                                                PLANNED    AL  O.......h-~
Date: 7125195                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 %4
]Prgress                                         Roiled Uip             C)                         Miletone              S



........~~~~~~~~~~ .....                                                                                                                   .-1   ---'"'' ''''''.'''''''''''''
0(19           Ill                j~~~~~df palt                                                               m(ti
l                                   t~~~~~ 6vI 2.    U/l'                                                             .,s I ^ <                                                                                                                 2
........ .......  ......................... ... ............                          ...........  - ''''                                 ........  ......
............ ........ ........ ........ ....... ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ t    i       j   ........I                                    r                i
.4                                                            T              ........   ........  .......  ........ ........ 
.......  .......    ........  ........  ........   .......  .........  .....  .......  ....  ........    ........  ........  ........    .....   ..    ...    ......  .....  ........  . ... .....  ....    .....    ...
.~~~~~~~~~O/                                                                                                                                                                                          111:1u- uW *dop3Jd(J            E
.                                                  I     I    ,       .     .....            _    _    _    __..._._......
........ ........                                                                                     1......... ........ .......  . ......  ''' '''' ''' '''' ........ .................... .......I........ ....... I ..  . .....
I                                                                                                                                                                         Iti~~~IEC  riauomj etol *nddjp3             __
EI                                                                                                                                  r5"93  JA0j                           3
.......   T                                                                                                          l                         1      ..  l  |.I ......  .....  ......  ..  ...
.......  .   . ... . ........ .       . . .  .          .        .                ........ ...................... ........ ......3 j                                                                                                                                                            V              l            9
!  1  l   +      1       I               1       I       l               !                1-              !       I       X        0       '8      ' IDE' 't            --1--013as    9
!uuIfuJ!s )W IIJoM J JdUo!PIJ}Uo)5U- 1D3M011 NOI1331OHJ )INVfl)fAIl-IS3UV19NVH
....  .... ............... ....  ...  ....  .... .......... ..............  ....... .....                   ....1   ...    ...     .... ............... ........



BANGLADESH- RIVERBANK PROTECTION PROJECT -Construction Program for Works at Sirajganj
1996                1997                199                 1999                2000                2001
ID  Nume                                                                  Ql I Q2 I Q3   Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3   !Q    Q2  I Q3 !         Q4  Q   Q2 IQ3  04             Q 2 IQ    Q     Q    Q2 I Q3  Q4 
26 Section B                                                               I                   - 4 ..-
27      landRe.damaumio(I)                                               4/1       6/3I
23      1Anad Reclamation (2)                                                                4I         6/30
2 Z(2, a ....... ...... .. ..... 41 _ 6 o. ............   ........... . .... . ......  .......       ...    .. ....... .... ... ........... ........... . ...............................................
Project:Critical                                                            Milestoae                                   COMPLETED              F                                                3
Dale: 7flo/s                               Noncritical                                 Summary                w                   PLANNED    *.                                                            I o 
. Progress=5a Rolled Up                                                O               Milestooe                                                            CK  ....-J



BANGLADESI- RIVERBANK PROTECTION PROJECT - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
_  _    Rs  1996            Ig97      _   19"            I9999"     _ 2000
ID Nwm                                                             I    Ql  I Qi  I Qj  I Q4 Ql |        Q2 I Q3 I Q4 Ql 02 I  e4 Ql _     Q3 Q4
I A.RIVERBANK PROTECTION                                                                            _/31
2     SARIKANDIIMATIIURAPARA                       ,                                     .0  .._
3        LAND ACQLJISMON                                      4 *1_1_   4t0
4        RESETTLEMENT
_ CONSTRUCTON                                                  -1- .                                   SEEM
6     SIRAJGANJ                                                                                              6no
7        LAND ACQUISMON
~~CNtRUTO                                                                                                 .jz<1z........._.......9t0_..    .... _______ 
3        RESETTLEMENT
9         COST-UCT1:N--                                              -      1 10laS NON      11000..  111 -1-1:10   .---- 
I0
I I  MINOR CIVIL WORKS
12        LAND ACQUISITION103  a  a saaa 90
10 O&M UNI T                                         STBSHATt|                ---*-Lf.~..-......l-- .. .... ....... ..
13        RESETTLEMENT                           t                           0U00    121
14       CONSTRucTON (Om  -)
Is       CONSTRUCTION (iat 2)on                                                                t               a  M   M  43
17    IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                                                                                        11
19 IMPROVED O&M
20    OhM UNIT ESTABUSHMANT
21    TA MAINTENANCE SU PPORT                                                             W
22    EQU1PMENT &VEHICLE PROCUiREMENT                          I043
~~~~~I..                       -                        -    ..  -                      -. --...- .. .... .
23  ANNUAL MONITORING & MAINTENANCE
24        SARIAKANDVJMATHURAPARLA
2S       SIRAJOANJ 
Project:        Noncritical                    ~~~Summary                        PLUNNED       &........



BANGLADESH- RIVERBANK PROTECTION PROJECT - CoasIrucIion Program for Works aS MalburparasSanakaudl
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                                     I"97                       I 19s                       _9  2000  _ 
-ID       Name                                                                                                3                   2                     I     2   Q3                          Q3II                I Q       q    Q        110            3~
1 PREPARATORY                                                                                               e  _  _                                      _ _1
z                                                             *i lis im    1  -    3n    1   ................ _ ........ . ........ . 8600.* . ..... . ....... .............  ...... . .....   . . . . . . . . . . .......................    . ........ .. .......... . . ...,.. ..........   ..... . ... .    ........ . .......
2             MobiUisation                                                                                      I 
5 SlOpilehn  t._  ....... ........ /3,l * _ _ _ _ ........ 12' 1 ... _ ... _ ....... .. _ ........ ............ ...... _..... __.... .__.. _......... ............. ................... ..... .....
3             Reclai Whnk Am_                                                                                                                                                                   -             -2
4             Sdtup Ya da NW Atcamunodal                                                                              4I1
11   L S b pths                                                   |           w ,-1-1_I               I                 Iv    4ns            1           ...........................................  ..    _    ....... ....  .................................................... .......... .....  .....  ._...  ..... ..... .....  ....    ..    .
S             Stockpile AnnouI
6  MATHUIRAPARA(KALITOLA)                                                                                                                                                            -.-.-30..
23  UwSI  9_ __  *_4__1-1  4__-l-111 -t-_-m__- _. ........................................................ _ _. _. _. __. ._ _. ....................................                                         .       . ..._.....
7             Dmrdp andFii
S  Ramww ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        S                                                                 ....-      .      .-....-          .        .-      .      ---.--.,..-                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ......  ...
9             RWnkdg to hotk                                                                                                           II33
10             Pleos Oeetuidih                                                                                  -'              -
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.--I,-                            .   -..-                                        .  ...-...-                                  .     -.   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -  ....  ..... ....  ....      .....   .. ... .. ....  ...  ....
I I            PlacaAjwa2a35/
24                                                                      Clesl   W*tzdaXr    1   ~~~~~   *--_X-|---_-| --_---[ -_-|---_--|------ *- -r- $/3|-| * ....................................-.. ....... ...............................  ...    ......    ....._......._.   ...... ....... ......
33             iAwUS1e~paAJ~in5                                                                                               -.   _                                                                                            . - ,- - -                      .
14            Cr  wgimWmtud auabw                                                                                                                           g3
1$                                         t.-.***..*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-......-   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -..~~~~~~~~.... .... ..... .... ...
16 SARIAKANDI                                                                                                                                                                                     o
II            Dmda &ad Fill                                                                             IWI loll
19             Rv*o         Bc44  | Nkal                                                                I                                                                                I'
20                   |e GeoOextil                                                                                                                                  12i                    o
21             ?I"* A"on                                                                                                                                                                   9
22             Law=s Skip Aanmoing                                                                      a                                                           21                 4/29
23             tWesSIop.Am-iangaI 
24             CadWa.ke nd an-bw                                                                        a                                                                  i             53j
35 ~~~~~~~~~~izagaco aid CIaa-aap  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~. .                                                       . - ..-..~.... ...                  .........
23    Danobil"im aW Cloa-up Ske                                                                                             1-4   ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6(30t
- N
Critical  Milcstone                                               COMPLETED                                                                                      _t_,~~~~~~~~ \-



BANGLADESH- RIVERBANK PROTECTION PROJECT -Procurement Schedule
1993            1996            399              3995            1999             200(J_
ID  Nune_ Q    | Q  3| Q4| Ql I Q2 I Q3| Q4| Ql |Q2 I|3Q4Q                                                            2 I |3Q    Ql Q29  I 19Q3 I Q4 Ql  _2IQ    4
I WorkProgram                                                 9/11 3II   . _  _
2     GOB Afwovai of Waa so Flood  a            _                    9/11__ _ 
3     IudarLaindl Dolw Ccmfauws an FAP&Wi ad  F _ __  - Flo  _l    _ _ _
4  R   licwa R_  IndVnl _ _31ow _  __  _da__  __ 
_     FPCO Mped with WARPO                                _             .    329       _
6     FIull Muii-dspliiary Staff _Apo=a_                                                                                                        _
7     Work Plan for 1996-2000                             _
9         National Water Management
_0            Fcpu lianhiof  _D_JV Plan                                                             _              6_3
12    )edsdanAfm-I  Wuta so"c "am jda
13    lanL4arm Wau Boaw stralegy
14    L.,ong4em WWad      jedS                                                                                                              3 2130O
15 Technical assistance
16   TA Recruitment                                       -1|_
17        PrepareTOR                                           A                           /
I I       lnvit Propsals                                           21          
39        Evahluaim sai Rzt4ew dPof posaVi03s5
20         CmUsd Negcalsiamu sai Awwid
2 1        FieldTA
22         Skilb Tmauhf (Traing) .7/
23      Procurement of Computers and Equipme  _|
24         propm Sp"s__ 
Critkal                            Milestone       (I)                 COMPLETED  _          | 
Project:                                                                                                                                                             0   -
Date: 10/16/9S                     Noocric         ikal    C D        Somiary    W              _         PLANNED   Ao.                 Ah
Progren                            RoUe Up                O            Mlestone        @



BANCLADESI- RIVERBANK PROTECTION PROJECT -Procurement Schedulc
1995        1996         199          Me8         1999         2000
ID  Nu=#                                      Ql |Q2 I Q3 I Q4 Ql  Q1 I Q1  Q4 Ql  Q2 I_Q Q4 Ql Q2 I   _3Q  Ql Q2 IQ1 I Q4 Ql |Q1 I Q1  Q4 Q
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~03
26    Overseas Training                      _1
27      1D}m Tman NOD& .w ___                               7/1n  _  is
21      SkdWaa o(Tnining _and _mcc                                   12__1
29      B'edaia of Can&d.e-                1-1 .2:
30      Trmmdg S~ta                                                                                W 6/30
31    Policy Support Team
32      TOR
34      Ope__                                                                                         63    _ F
|wkjd            C     r     ilsMlae  ^ @              COMPLKTKD |   _
Date: 1011l0S      |       NcriLica S_ry                                          PLANNED 
| Pws                        RAd eUp    OMUales                     <



Annex 7
Page 16 of 16



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 18
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.     Tables I and 2 summarize the economic analysis of the Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajganj
sub-projects. The following sections outline the method used.
A. Proiect Benefits
2.     The benefits of the project are damages avoided by preventing river bank erosion.  These
damages arise out of land loss to erosion, local and regional flooding as a result of breaches of the BRE,
and of a merger of the Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers. The erosion losses include the agricultural
production foregone from destruction of agricultural and urban land, and the loss of private property and
public infrastructure on flooded land. The flood damages consist of: (a) total loss of crops, livestock,
property and infrastructure near a BRE breach at a given location; (b) partial damage to crops, property
and infrastructure in the flooded region behind a BRE breach; (c) partial damage to crops, property and
infrastructure in the incremental area of about 100,000 ha of the Karatoa-Bangali-Ichimati river system
flood plain, which would be subject to flooding hazards due to perennial augmentation of Bangali river
flow when the Bangali river channel would become a distributory river of the Brahmaputra; and (d)
savings in construction costs of local BRE retirements at locations where potential BRE breaches are
prevented.
3.     Some benefits could not be quantified for lack of data. The crop, property and infrastructure
damage that might be caused by deeper flooding of the 200,000 ha area of the Karatoa-Bangali-Ichimati
rivers' flood plain, presently vulnerable to periodic flooding, was not quantified. The losses due to
disruptions of road and rail traffic during flooding of the transportation network could not be calculated.
Losses attributable to disincentives to private investment in and around the flood area also could not be
estimated.
B. Erosion Losses Prevented
Land Losses
4.     The land losses to erosion are equal to the total area eroded in hectares multiplied by the land
value per hectare. The area eroded at each site was estimated from the length of bankline at risk and the
expected rate of erosion. Expected erosion rates of lOOrn/annum over 22 km at Sariakandi/Mathurapara,
and 90m/annum over 19 km at Sirajganj were determined by the River Training Studies of the
Brahmaputra (BRTS) for the period 1973-1992. To calculate the land value per hectare, eroded land
was divided into six categories: (i) agricultural land protected by the BRE; (ii) unprotected agricultural
land between the BRE and the Brahmaputra river; (iii) market land; (iv) urban land; (v) peni-urban land;
and (vi) Thana HQ land. Since 50% of the urban land in Sirajganj would be lost in the first five years,
together with the built-up area (Thana. HQ land) of Sanrakandi, while land losses in the subsequent 25
years would be predominantly rural, it is appropriate to consider the categories of land losses separately
during these two periods. The losses by category for years I - 5 and years 6 - 30 are given in Table 3.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 18
5.      Table 3 also gives the unit land values, which are equal to the net present value of output over
30 years, discounted at 12%. The calculation of the agricultural land values assumes that crop output
increases at an annual rate of 3%.1' The values of non-agricultural land are assumed equal to their
observed market prices.
Property and Infrastructure Losses
6.      Buildings were divided into three construction quality categories--"pucca", semi-pucca and
"katcha".2' Estimates of the numbers of buildings expected to be lost over five years without the project
are given in Table 4. The economic unit values were derived by adjusting the financial unit value (based
on LGEB rates) with an appropriate SCF. For semi-pucca and katcha buildings, the unit values are based
on the costs of relocation and the damage to the structure during its dismantling. Pucca buildings have
been priced at their replacement cost.
7.      The following assumptions have been made in deriving property and infrastructure losses:
(a)     The annual property and infrastructure losses for the first five years at Sariakandi/
Mathurapara are the average losses of the five-year period.
(b)     One third of the Sirajganj town land (i.e, 500 ha)--of which 450 ha is urban and 50 ha
peri-urban--would be lost in five years. Since the main commercial area would be
affected in the initial period, it has been assumed that 50% of the property and
infrastructure of the town would be lost. The rate of loss approximates: Year 1 - 15%;
Year 2 - 20%; Year 3 - 25%; Year 4 - 25%; and Year 5 - 15%.
(c)     All annual property and infrastructure losses grow by 3%  in real terms per annum to
reflect regional economic growth.
Employment Losses
8.     Prevention of lost wages is counted as a project benefit. The period of lost wages is four months,
as this is the duration of temporary unemployment of non-agricultural workers caused by destruction of
buildings (Table 5). Total employment losses were converted to annual losses on the basis of the
following assumptions:
(a)     Some 50% of the buildings located in the commercial area of Sirajganj are destroyed in
the first five years, so half of the earnings loss is incurred in equal annual amounts in the
first five years. The other half is spread uniformly over years 6 - 30.
(b)    As Sariakandi is assumed to be destroyed in the first five years, total wage losses are
incurred at a uniform annual rate over five years.
(c)    The unit economic monthly wages lost are estimated from market wages.
A gross annual economic income of Tk 30,000 per ha is derived for protected land for 1991, A gross margin of Tk 18,200 is obtained
by deducting input costs of Tk 7,000 and Tk 4,800 for hired labor. For unprotected land with a lower value cropping pattern, a gross
annual revenue of Tk 23,200 per ha was used, giving a gross margin of Tk 11,400 per ha.
2/     See Glossary for definitions.



ANNEX 8
Page3of 18
C. BRE Breach Losses Prevented
9.     Benefits in the form of damage avoidance from BRE breaches consists of the damages near the
breach caused by sudden flooding, and damages beyond the breach where there is deep and prolonged
inundation. Near the breach damages consist of crops, livestock, property and infrastructure lost or
destroyed when the breach occurs; and reduction of soil productivity for several years due to sand
deposition as the flood recedes.
10.    Each damage near the breach is evaluated separately as described below; regional flood damage
evaluation is described in Section D, together with the evaluation of regional flood damages caused by a
merger of the Brahmaputra and Bangali rivers.
11.    Without the project, it is impossible to retire the BRE at Sariakandi/Mathurapara following its
imminent breach in the first project year. Any retirement would be subject to an immediate breach by
ongoing erosion as the Bangali river, in effect, acts as a physical boundary for any retirement. Since
resources would not be wasted on retirements, the BRE's hinterland would be subject to regular annual
flooding from the open breach. This would continue for several years until the land between the Bangali
and the Brahmaputra would be eroded and a merger occurs, resulting in exacerbated regional flooding in
subsequent years. At Sirajganj, the BRE is assumed to be breached in the first project year causing
severe damage to the town. Since the BRE would have to be retired behind the town, the town would be
exposed to regular annual flooding. For the agricultural areas of Sirajganj, it is assumed that breaches
occur in years 6 and 8, followed by four years of security. This cycle is assumed to be repetitive with
subsequent BRE breaches in years 13, 15, 20, 22, 27 and 29.
Crop Losses
12.    Complete crop loss. In the severely affected areas close to a breach, a total loss of one year's
crop is assumed. The crop loss is the area damaged, in hectares, multiplied by the average value per
hectare . The area is related to the length of the breach and hence varies among locations. Surveys
indicate that the area is about 400 ha. Since only one BRE breach is expected near Sariakandi,41' the
area affected would include 80 ha of Thana HQ land, so the crop land lost would be 320 ha. Because
Sirajganj is mainly urban, the agricultural land severely affected by a BRE breach would be only about
100 ha. The average value per hectare is the net economic margin; the values are 24,008 Tk/ha in
Sariakandi/Mathurapara and 21,470 in Sirajganj (Working Files - BRTS Master Plan Report, Technical
Annex 2 Economic Assessment, May 1993). The economic net margin per ha is equal to the gross value
of output (yield per hectare times economic price) less cash and imputed economnic costs of production.
The economic margin per ha is an average weighted by the share of each crop in the area damaged by the
breach.
13.    Partial crop loss. Sand deposition near the breach causes the soil to be less productive. These
areas are generally planted with sugar cane which withstands inundation, although yields are reduced
(this may occur as a result of future exposure of the area as a result of retirement of the BRE in the
breach vicinity). It was assumed that for four years after the breach only sugar cane is planted in the
See Glossary for definitions.
Following this breach, no BRE retirements re effective or likely because of the proximity of the Bangali river. lbus, the breach would
remain open leaving the hinterland exposed to regional flooding until erosion causes a merger of the Banplia nd Brahmaputraiyers a
few years hence.



ANNEX 8
Page4of 18
severely affected area and that its yield would be 20% less than average. Hence, the value of the crop loss
is the total loss (as explained in para. 12) minus 80% of the net margin in sugar cane production.
Livestock Losses
14.    Significant livestock losses normally occur in areas severely affected by a BRE breach. The
estimated stock losses are given in Table 6, based on field surveys of 1991 market prices, updated to
1994 prices, and converted to economic values by the standard conversion factor.
Property and Infrastructure Losses
15.   The property and infrastructure likely to be destroyed or relocated by a BRE breach are given in
Table 6. These estimates are based on field surveys. With respect to the valuation of different property
categories, the economic damage to semi-pucca and katcha buildings are based on the costs of relocation
and dismantling given in Table 4. Severe flood damage to buildings was assumed to be 50% of the
economic replacement value of pucca buildings, and 100% of the dismantling and relocation costs of
semi-pucca and katcha buildings. Valuation of damage to infrastructure was based on the full economic
replacement cost of a damaged length of road or railway embankment as given in Table 4. Since
Sirajganj town is exposed to annual flooding through a BRE breach from year 2, an annual loss
equivalent to 50% of full breach damage is assumed for years 2 - 30, but at a declining rate as the town
is eroded over this period.
Losses Due to BRE Retirements
16.   The project is assumed to save the costs of eight BRE retirements at Sirajganj over a 30 year
period, assuming that those retirements would occur without the project. About 2.5 km of embankment
would be constructed each year for a period of three years following each breach at a unit economic cost
of Tk 7.2 million per kTn, or Tk 18.0 million per year. An area between 150 ha and 60 ha is expected to
remain unprotected each year as a result of each retirement. Flooding on the river side of the BRE would
cause the average net economic margin in this area to by about Tk 6,873 per ha, as the cropping pattern
would shift to lower-value crops and cropping intensity would fall.
D. Regional Flood Losses Prevented
17.   Breaching of the BRE at Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajgani causes augmentation of the flood
in the Karatoa-Bangali-Ichimati river system. The maximum impact would be caused by breaches at
Sariakandi which result in deeper regional flooding in the above flood plain as well as incremental
flooding of areas normally protected by the, BRE. This impact is expected to be an annual occurrence
because the expected breach at Sariakandi would not be repaired. After about five years, when erosion
has resulted in merger of the Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers, deeper regional flooding and a larger
incremental area inundated will result.
18.  In order to derive a probability distribution of the incremental area flooded, BRE breaches and the
river merger were simulated in a mathematical model. Modeling of BRE breach impacts was undertaken
by the River Training Studies of the Brahmaputra River. The results are sunumarized in: Report on
Model Studies. ID Numerical Hvdrodvnamic Modeling of the Brahmaputra River; Volume 3, Part 7,
Dhaka, March 1993. Modeling of flooding caused by the merger of the Bangali and Brahznaputra rivers
was undertaken by the Surface Water Modeling Centre and summarized in: Breakthrough to the Baneali
River at Mathurapara--Mathematical Model Tnvestitations, Dhaka, May 1993.



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 18
19.    Using available rainfall and river flow data for 1986-1989, the model was calibrated by
comparison with actual observed water levels at 13 locations. The four years simulated represent a wide
range of possible rainfall and runoff events. For the project area, 1986 was an average year in terms of
rainfall and Brahmaputra river flood levels, while in 1989 the area experienced lower than average
monsoon rainfall. During 1987 there was widespread regional flooding because of extensive rainfall and
drainage congestion, while the 1988 flood was the worst recorded. Following its successful calibration,
the model was used to investigate regional flooding caused by BRE breaches and merger of the Bangali
and Brahmaputra rivers using data for 1986-1989. The results provided estimates of the maximum
incremental area flooded, i.e., relative to the flooding experienced without breaches or the river merger.
Crop Damage and Production Losses
20.    Crop Dama2e. Reductions in unit economic crop gross margins as a result of flood damage
were estimated on the basis of the percentage reduction in yield of the principal crops cultivated during
the period July-September (Table 7). Since most of the incremental area flooded lies bet-ween Sariakandi
and Sirajganj, a cropping pattern of 50% high yielding transplanted Aman, 35% transplanted local
improved Aman, and 10% sugar cane was assumed. For transplanted Aman damaged in July, it has been
assumed that the young plants would be destroyed, and would be replanted in August with a 40% yield
reduction. August and September flooding would result in direct crop damage. The losses are multiplied
by the percentage of the total area under each crop to derive an expected regional net economic crop
damage for each month.
21.    An estimate for very severe flooding causing total crop loss is also made. Depending on the
month of maximum flooding, the loss of net economic margin per ha is multiplied by the incremental
areas flooded to derive the expected net economic production loss. These expected losses are weighted by
the probability of the Brahmaputra flood levels giving rise to such incremental areas (Table 8). The
resulting expected value is used in the economic analysis as an estimate of annual crop damage caused by
sustained flooding through a BRE breach at Sariakandi, and subsequently as a result of merger of the
Brahmaputra and Bangali rivers. A similar method was used for regional crop damage caused by a BRE
breach at Sirajganj.
22.    Production Losses Caused by Cropping Pattern Changes. Another possible production loss
is the effect of flooding on cropping systems. Most of the agricultural flood control benefits of the BRE
result from expansion of HYV transplanted Aman in the monsoon season, replacing flood-tolerant, but
low-yielding broadcast Aman or a mixture of broadcast Aus and Aman. With continued flooding,
farmers would revert to the lower-yielding cropping pattem. In order to project the likely changes to
regional cropping pattems caused by flooding, typical cropping pattems were derived from simulation
models. It has been assumed that the timing, duration and depth of flooding that occurred in 1989
without BRE breaches represent average flooding conditions. The proportion of cultivated area at
various flood depths and the prevailing cropping pattems were taken as the base case. The base case was
compared with sustained flooding as a result of augmentation of Bangali river flows and the impact on
flood depths was assessed in terms of the appropriate rice crop required to minimize risk of crop damage.
The income difference between regional cropping pattems writh and without the project was estimated to
be Tk 179.3 million, or the annual loss to an inferior cropping pattem prevented by the project.
Property and Infrastructure Damage Avoided
23.    Floods of the magnitude of those of 1987 and 1988 can cause extensive damage to property and
infrastructure although the effects of flooding in most years are minimal. A regional average financial
value of damage to property and infrastructure of Tk 226 per hectare wvas adopted, based on damage
frequency analyses calculated by the FAP's Northwest Region Study, and converted to an economic value



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 18
of Tk 185 per ha at a conversion factor of 0.82. The unit economic value was then multiplied by the
maximum incremental areas inundated by augmentation of Bangali river flows, and an expected annual
economic damage to property and infrastructure was derived (Table 9). For BRE breaches at Sirajganj,
an annual expected economic damage of Tk 139,000 (TK 185 per ha) was derived with a similar
procedure.
E. Capital and O&M Costs
Capital Cost of Project Works
24.    The economic costs of bank protection works were derived by converting financial estimates into
economic prices. The financial estimates were grouped into the following cost categories: skilled and
unskilled labor, machinery and equipment, cement, brick, geotextiles, transport, storage, housing,
temporary works, bonds and insurance, and survey/tests. Price contingencies and transfer payments for
land acquisition, taxes and duties were excluded from economic costs.. Application of the detailed
conversion factors resulted in an overall ratio of economic to financial costs of about 80% for
Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajganj. Conversion factors for skilled and unskilled labor were used to
convert estimates of engineering supervision costs to economic prices.
O&M Costs
25.    Projections of O&M  costs are based on the personnel costs of the O&M  Unit, technical
assistance personnel, procurement of vehicles and equipment and their operating costs, costs of materials
(brick, cement and geotextile) required to replenish revetment armor. Replenishment materials were
estimated at 1% and 5% of armor capital costs for routine maintenance and preventative maintenance
respectively. Preventative maintenance is assumed to be required every five years. Maintenance vehicles
and equipment are assumed to have a functional life of about 12-14 years and are replenished in the 14th
and 25th years.
F. Economic Justification
Economic Analysis
26.    There are separate economic analyses for Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajganj. The economic
investment and recurrent costs were subtracted from the economic benefits each year in a 30 year
planning horizon to derive the incremental net benefit streams shown in Tables I and 2. The indicators of
profitability derived were Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and Net Present Value (NPV). The
economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 36.9%, and those for the Sariakandi/Mathurapara and
Sirajganj subprojects are 35.3%  and 39.9%, respectively.  At a 12% discount rate, the NPV of
incremental benefits is US$58.4 million and those of Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajganj are US$40.6
million and US$17.8 million, respectively.



BANGIADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Table 1: Economic Analysis of SarblkandiJAIathurapars River Bank Protection Works
(Tk millbos)
agz1S: LOSSZSAVOIDED                                  6          I           I            3           4           5            f        7      5       9 9    I       II      11     13      14
A.  Loee  _ms Aleled
1.  Ere ._ Cm.que
LuL r2 -                                                  52.9        329         529         52 9         329         411      411    4I 1    411    411    411    41 I    411    411
opyaty Losc                                              213          224        2Dl          238         243           32       51      335      6     51      60      62      64      65
Inhuuuc*"   Lass                                          41           43          44          4S          47           I9       19      20     20      21      22      22      23      24
Tenpoy Euhy-     I.-                          -            35          60          6.1          63          63                   -       -       -              -
Sob-TeolEr_ eu  low"                               -4.6                    855         86.5        n7.5        8u.6         45.2     45.4    48.6   4U.2    49.1   49.3    49.5   49.5  s5.3
2. *RE  rch lad Din-a
Sever  Crop D _-a                                          7 6         6 8         6 I         6 8          6 8         -        -       -      -                       -       -       -
L     etockLa                                               0 I a        *                     .
Simere Propy DOn-ge                                       33 2        102          5 3         2 6          13                   -              .               . 
Scrvel Infre cture Dunage                                  I 8         4 4         2 2          I I         0 6
Swb-ToIeI Svere Floed lsses                         *          56.6        21.1         341 2S.5                 8.7
B. RegionaI Flood Damasge
1.  8RE Breech Coe eeq.m
Pmiia Crop Lo1se                                          I602        1602        160.2       1602         1602                   -       -       -      .       -       -
Panil Pfopenyllsft  Losses                                  2 6         2 6          2 6         2 6         26                   -       -       .
I. Bngali Rtiver CapGare Coanqoeet_
Partial Crop Loasm                                  -                  -                                              2016    203 6   203 6   203 6   203 6   203 6   203 6   203 6   203 6
PallPropentyilaoftasure Losa-                                                      -           *           -           453      453    453    453    453    453 3    433    433    4S3
 Reduao    ian AgirIo.d Poai"                               44.1        87         1345        1793         3793        1793    1793  3193   3193   I793   1793   1793   1793   1793
Swl-total RIqinee   homes 217.6                                           252.4        297.3       342.1       342.1        418.2    428.2   4282.  428.2   428.2  428.2   428.2  428.2  42U.2
TOTAL COSTS AVOIDED:.                                         342.8       359.4       397.9       440.1        439.3       476.4    476.6  476.8  477.0  477J   477.5  477.7  478.0  47.3
P1103ECT CAPITAL COSTS
1. BRE Rtigpla-                                              -                       24.3        34.3
2 B"  Protekion Works                                       6U4         4663        4134          191
3 Sh asin BWB Costs                                          42 4        65 6        79 5        28 7         14 3
SobTotal Capital Cots                                         730.7       533.1       517.2        82.2         14.3
RaeIIte..e                                                     2.6          4.6
O&M COSTS
1. Emr _akou   RedrwuwA                                      .            09          0.9         0.9          09          09              I3a      I8 I    I       I8     I I     Ia      Ia
2  Soik PreBede  W m                             -            7.6        387         43.7        13.3        13.3         I4.6     435    391    191       931   391    435    454    703
Soo-TOm O&M                                         -           7.         39.6         44.6        14.2        14.2          5.5    45      20.9   26.9   28.9   20.9   45.3   47.2   72.1
CapilrlaiOIhrO&M c-s                                          740.9       578.1        513.         96.4        28.5        31.5     45.3   20.9    209    20.9   209    45.3   47.2    721
Uveoidable bak  rot r oost                                .           .l s-
Tocl. coStS  dl,dsab erbs.,p                        .         740 9       578 1        561 a        96 4        24 5         3F S    JS*    20 2)    2        09 ,3))   2119   4J 3    472   2 I
to..rem. "et..Inet3rnetOd                                    (3983I      (2127)       (1639)       3431        4103        4609    4313   4559   456 1   4561   4566   4324   41114   4062                                    >
Econaomic llternal Rali ol Hewnrc                33.0% O
Net Pr.can  Value (Tk)                          1,614.7        40J                                                                                                                                                -
9' 0   rri
t3j  Q000



BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECHON PROJECT
Tablt 1: Ecomomic Analysis oSariakandi/Mathurpars River Bank Protection Works
(Tk millions)
BEtNEFITS: LOSSES AVOIDED                   15    1       17      I1       19      10     21       22      13       24      15      14      27      23        29      30
A.  Lacul hauses  ,ls
1.  Etudes C      c
LaedLo                                433    411    411    411    41.1    411    411          411    411    411    411    411    411            411     411      41 1
PfpuLose                              67      6.9    7.2      74      76      7.1     IL       0.3     85      88      91       93      96      99      101 2     05
w           _*ubudas LOU"             24      25     26       27      27      28      2.9      3.0       1     32      33       14      I5       36      17       18
T_mpewy EuOD e  Ls                            -      -                -
SallToda3E.reesskm"  5.3    91.6   51.9 s                         S1.2    51.5    53.0    52.1    s2.4    52       53.3     35    s3.8       4.2    54.      5s5.     s5.4
L   *RF Dread  Fld Din.
Sve Ce                                                            -                   -                - D-                     -       -        -
Livesock LtAm                                        -            -       -       -            -           -       -            -                        -        -
Se-  Pops"  D _n.p                                        -    .        .     .                            .           .         .          . .
Sev  i*ncum Du                        - p                             .               -        .       .       .       .        .                 
Ss-Tecal Severe h "ad   a
D.  Regisal Flood Damage
1.  SRI Drad Caasegmcs
Pua Cto Lp    a
taid  hpenyllolf&                       - s                    -       - .   .   .   .   .                                       . .
2. SL agl Rles Capture Cimsequemon
tlal C,op Loss                       2036   203 6   23      23      2036   203.6   203.6   2036   2036   203 6   203 6   203 6   2036    2036    2036    2036
PuldWPropserly/inhamcume Los         453    453    453    45.3    45.3    45.3    45S.1    45.3    45.3    453    4S3    453    4S3            453      453      451
t          neducein A -u, wd Psesi   1793   1793   3793    1793    179.3   1793    1793    17933     179    1793    1793    1793    1793    1793    1793    1791
Sebila  Rep"    i_.                       42152   4211.2   40.2   42112    412.2   411.2   412.2   418.    48.2   411.    431.1   414.1   418.2   418.2   41.1   412.2
TOALCOSTSAVOIDED:                        475   47.8  479.1   479.4   479.7   488.    41.    48.6   481.0   413    481.7   483.8   481.4   4S2.    4u.2   483.6
PROJECT CAMPTAL COSTS
1. BRE pA   Igae-.
2 8us Prossm  Works
1 Sh t BfWL Ctnr se-                                            -   -        -           -        -           -       -       -        -                    -        -
SubTeed  Captl C_se                        .       .      .          .                                                                         
subTai cns        cd
0*18 COSTS
3  E      _b ss       _ I.digaef          .1S    1.8    1.      1.8    13.      1.8      .8      I.S     1.8     1.8      I       I 3     I.8     i1      '1.       I a
2    at3           tt 1ab                39.1   39.3   19.     39.3    39.3   1391      39.  19.1       39.3    39.3      9  191          9.9 19.1        39. III  39.1
Sub-Tem OU5                                29    0.9    XI9    2 .9          28.9     20.9     2t.9    189    20.9    2t.9    2a.9   21.9      389    09     289      20.9
Capltal/Other/OhH ce1b                     28.9   20.9   36.9    38.9    20.9    28.9    28.9    20.9    28.9    30.9    20.9    20.9    20.9    20.9    20.9    20.9
U earbi bash enod_s lse                            -       -       -       -       -       .        -       .       .        .           .       .        .   -
Total costsand bank es"or                  20.9   20.9   20.9    20.9    30.9    20.9    20.9    20.9    20.9    20.9    20.9    209    20.9    20.9    20.9    209
lncremeae.laecbeaeSit                     4576   4571   4551   4584    4517   4590   4594    4597    4600    4604    4607   461 t   4615    4619    46213   4621 
Icss..ic Istersa ltKate of Ktel.e, i                                                                                                                                                                       6       0 'z
Ne Protst Vlse (Tb)
e0:I
0's (0 



BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Table 2: Ecoonomic Analysis of Sirajganj River Bank Protection Works
(Tk million)
BENEFITS:osses AVOIDED                                 0           1             2           3           4          5         6        7       *       9       10      II      12      13      14
A.  Erosion Consequenccs
Land Los                                       -          322 2         429 6       537 0       537 0      322 2     108 0    108 0   108 0   l0S 0   10S 0   10S 0   l0t 0   10t 0   t0S 0
Property Losses                                -           64 6           3 2       107 2       1380       142 1      23 6     24 3    25 0    25 8    26 6    27 3    28 2    29 0    29 9
Infastnructure Losses                                        8 0         134         134         134        107        43       44       45      47      48      50      531     53      54
Tcrnportay Emplyment  Lossts                               395           406         419         43 1       444        -                -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Sab-Tot lEr.siouCsuaqse.s                                       434.3        566.9       699.4        731.5     519.4     135.9    136.7   137.6   138.5   139.4   140.3   141.3  142.3   143.3
B.   DRE Breach Coaseq ncs
Severc Crop Damage                             -             21           19          19           19        19        21        19      19      19      19      12      12      21      19
Partial Crop Damagc                           -             59                                                         5 9              5 9                     .       -        5 9
Livestock Loases                               -            0 5                                              - -       -                    -            -       -
Sevem Property Dama4e                                      1293          66.6        59.9        479        40t8       -
SeverelnfasuctureDsge                          -            202          10.1        100           99        98        97        96      95      94      92      90      89      86      83
Paniti nfrastructtweDunaage                    -             03           -           -           -                    03                0           -           -       -       01      -
Sub-Total ORE  Flood loss                            -          158.2          78.6        71.8        59.7       52.4      17.9      31.5    17.4    11.3    11.1    10.2    10.1    16.t    10.2
C.  Areas unproleted4 by BRE
Reduced triulturl prodnctioe                                     -             I 0         0.9         0 7        0 5       2 1       1 9     1 7     16     4 2      4 2     4 2     4 2     4 2
0. BRE getireeawt costs
Consmjction cots saved                             -            900           -           -            -         -         Is 0         0          S0  -                     -       I 80    I 0
Sub-Tecal Retyial                                    -           911.           1.0         0.9         0.7        0.5      20.1     11.9    19.7      1.6     4.2     4.2     4.2    22.2    22.2
TOUIALCOSTSAVOIDED:                                 -           6J2.5        64S         77l          79.9      572.4      173.8    168.1   174.7  151.3   154.6   154.7   155.5  I3I2   17S.7
PROJICT CAPITAL COSTS
1. Bftta&,slih   t                                -            -             -           -           -          -        62.3      -       -                -       -       -               -
2 Bank Protcrtion Works                           -          986.9         58 2        569 7
3 Share io BWB Cost                               -            596          922        3113         404        20 1       11 5
Sub-Totsl Capib Cotsb                                         1,046.5        675.4       618.5         40.4      20.1       73.8          -       -       -       -       -
Reettdement                                                       .            3 1.4
O&M COSTS
I  Embanbnest Rcalipa                             -            -             -                       -          -                   3 6     1.6     1.6     L.6     16      16      16      16
2  Batnk Proteciao Wota*                                       10.7         54.4        61.5         18.7      18.7       146      435    19.1    191    19.1    191    435    45.4    703
Sub-TOtlO&M                                                      318.7         S4.4        613           87       317       14.6     45.1    28.7    20.7   20.7    20.7    45.1    47.0    ?I.8
CapitaldOther/O&Mets                                 -         1,.8.0         731.2       743.0        59.1      3.8        8S.4     45.1    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7   45.3    J7.0    71.S
Uttav4nble bank erosio losses                        --                        -            -           -         -          -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -
Total costs ard bank erosion                         -         1058.0         731.2       7M3.0        59.1      3.8        88.4 4J   5 I    20.7    20 7    20.7    20.7   45 I    J7 t   71.8
Il,,rement. anet benefsg                             -         (375.41        (84.U)       29.1       732.      533.6       t5.4    I32.0   354.3   130.6   134.0   33J.0  310.4   134.J   1059              .       D  ;
Eoonomic Internal Ra t  f Return                  45.0%                                                                                                                                                     <>           z
Net Present Value ITk)                            869.3          21.7
(7736)       (3034)      (134.8)     1,076.5    9444       5463    5543   6099   5867   5903   5906   5429   5650   5100                     0
Awgega* ERR                                      38.%_
AW         NYV (Tknaiim_ )                       2 4U4.
AMge"  NPV (USS   OW)                               6*13



BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Tabk 2: Economic Analysis of Sirajganj River Bank Protection Works
(Tk million)
BENEFtTS: l          AVOIDED                   15      16      17      12       19      20       21       22      23       24       25      26       27       23       29       30
A.  Erasion C.     cnqueuca
LadwLaw"                               IOO    U108    10.0   108I0    5080    IOJ.O   IW.O    108.0   IU.O    1050    100    10.0   1010 ls 0    IDSOJ                  IOJO
PropestyLows                            303    31.7   32.7    336        346      35.7    36.1    379      390      402      414     426      439      452      466      480
Snfristue    Loanes                      56      5.7    5.9      6.1      63       6.5     6.7      69       71      73       75       77      50       82       34       37
Terpory  Em pley          Lu             ----           -        -                 -                -       -        -        -       -        -                 -        -
S.mb.TotI ErmIeC _eaeqaces,                 144.4  145.5  146.6   147.7   14t.9   150.2   151.4   152.7   154.1   155.5   156.9   15J.3   159.9    161.4    163.0    164.7
L  BRIREr met C          _mesem
Severe Crop Damse                        21      1.9      9       L9      1.9      2.1      L9      21       19      21       19       19      21        19       21       19
Patial Crop Damnae                      5.9     -                                 5.9               5,9             5-       -        -        59                 9       -
Livestock Lou-                                   -       -       -        -            -        -       -        -            -       -        -        -        -        -
Severe Propeay Da e                                  -       -        -       - 
SevereltnrustnjctuwDuage                  I1     7.5    7.5      7.1      67       64      6.1      5t       55     52       49       47      45       42       40        38
Panial lnfrastucte Daunmae               0.1    0.1      -       -                 0               0 1              -        -                 l      -         aI      -
Sub-Total BRE  Fble    bssi                   16.3    9.S    9.3       9.0      8.6    14.6      3.0    13.9      7.4      7.3      6.S     6.6    12.6       6.1     52.2      S.7
C.  Are" euprotected by ORE
R.dce.d ,grkuSIur Iprodmcti.e                 42     4.2    4.2       4.2      4.2      42      42       42      42       42       42      42       42       42       42       42
D. MRE Reiremat cosb
Consructioa cost uved                        530         -       -                     s 0     15.0    I5 0      -       -        -        *       10       1 S0     I 0
Stb-Totcl Rgi.a4   loa                        22-2    4.2    4.2       4.1      4.2    22.2    22.2    22.2       4.2      4.2      4.2     4.2    22.2      22.2     22.2      4.2
TOTALCOSTSAVOIDUk                           I5L2    159.4   50.1   160.9   161.7   51.9   IJt.5   IU.    165.4   167.0   167.9   169.1   194.7    U09.7    197.4    174.5
PROJECT CAPITAL COSTS
1.        laIiptt                                   -      .        -        -       .        .        .       .
2 Bank Protection Works                     *       -      -        -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -          -
3 Share in BWB Costs
Sub-Tot l Capital Casa                        -       -       -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -                -             -
Retdlemet
O&M COSTS
1. Embanhbta  Reai_tw                      1.6    1.6      16       1.6     1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6      16       16      16       1.6     1.6       16       1.6      16
2  BSnk Pbatso  Woe<b                      19.1   19.1   19.1    19.1    19.1         9.  1591        591      19.1    1951    1951    195        1951     191      19.1    151
Sb-Taal O&M                                  20.7   10.7   20.7    20.7    20.7    26.7    20.7    26.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7              20.7     20.7     26.7
CspilaJOtberlO&M  ubn                        20.7   20.7   20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7              20.7     20.7     20.7
U,votable bonk  tresao kag                    -       -                -       -                 -          -     -        -                -        -        -
Togat costs and bank ersion                  20.7   20.7   20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7    20.7              20.7     20.7     20.7
Incremental net ben filt                    162.1   138.7  139.4   140.2   141.0   164.2   160.9   168.2   144.9   146.3   147.2   143.4   174.0    169.0   176.7    153.3                                      5r3
Economic Internal Rate of Returt                                                                                                                                                                        g
Net Prnent Value (Tk)                                                                                                                                                                                            _  z
619.7  596.6  597.5   593.6   599.7   625.3   620.2   627.8   604.9   6066    6079    609.5   635 5    630.9    639.0    616.5                                O O
A     ERRpt_ ER
A     _pft NrV (7I uillin)                                                                                                                                                                                      X oo
ANpf NV(LU  =-t)



BANGIADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Table 3: Unit Ecomomic Value of land Catagories
SariakaadhMalhwpars                                         Sirajgj
Cum_atv ken                  A_mud _um                Cudmuatie learn             Amm  e
Vale.            Tb N0                       Tb N0b                     Tb Nb                     Tb Nbk
L_d Ca_qy                         (M%h)   Yain 1-5    Years,0           Yn 1-5        Ye   6.30    Yemr 1-5    Years 6-30    Year, 1-5    Years 6-30
PResid api                         220.000      103,400       726.000        20.6W0         29.040     7X.100        720,500       15,620       28,20
lJUe,ecsed auic_uallaund            137,500      73,563       302.500         14.713        12.100           0            0            0            0
Me s  d                             500.000       7,500             0          1.500            0            0            0            0            0
UiAm l_d                          4.500.000           0             0             0             0    2.025.000     1.350,000      405,000       54.000
Pei-wbm lad                        900.000            0             0             0             0       45.000      630,000         9.000       25,200
Upazil HQ l_d                     1.000.000      80.000             0         16,000            0            0            0            0            0
Total                                           264,463      1.02V500        52.893         41,140    2.144.100    2,700,500      429,620      108,020
>
0h



ANNEX 8
Pate 12 of 18
Table 4
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Table 4: Unit Economic Value of Propet  Categories
r _aI    SCF         EcF        MMhnu'  Sbaia           Sijl0w)   M        _Wa   5wakmnd       Siq*j
Pmpqiy N    1n" Cg.gy            Usk           V_iu                  Vaiu               Nub                                   VI
r -
PO                                         1,009000       0.82   1230.000        20.0                   75.0       24.0              0       9o220
S _.Pucs                                    375.610       0.2    308,000          15.0        5.0       33.3        4.620        1.540        M0M
Coinwaa md b2awud
P.                                         2.5010,000     0.82   2.M0000                                50.0            0            0       61.50
S5_ium                                      300,000       0.12    410.000                               25.0            0            0       1020,
Mlm Now"mi.nd Shiny
Pa..                                        300,w00       0.12    246.000         6.0        -        250.0         1,476            0       61500
SnoPu,m                                      30,50        0.12     23.010      1.620.0      700.0    6.730.0       40.516       17.507      168218
K1.                                            9,760      0.2        8,003     1.620.0      700.0    3,300.0        2,53          1.602      26,21
W4,177       24.649     430,"4
Rod
P--_ m                                     2,000,000      0.80   1.600,000         6.0        -         25.0         9,60            0       40.000
K&NM                                        400,000      0.76     304.000        13.0        10.0       15.0        4.50         3.040        4.560
BridmC   iu                                  30,000       0.78     234.000        10.0        4.0       25.0         2.340         936       S30
 -nbnhms                                  3,000.000      0.76   2280,000                    -          0.5             0            0        1,140
addPAW-ft                                   300,000       0.78    234.000                -   -          2.0                          0         4S
Fu_m,imp                                     240000        0.76    282400                                 2.0            0            0          3M
ews ..d T lepm Lma                            25,t00       0.83     20.750         I0.0       2.0        50.0          20            42          1
16.70        4.018       5342



ANNEX A
Pate 13 of la
Table 5
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECr
Table 5: Non-Agrkckural Empboymot Losses
SlJUgaa
Town      No of        Sector employment    Etmingspworke       Lost           Lost
Populadon Households    %         Number        (nTihonth)       Months      Earnings (Tk)
Sector          92,000     17,037
Agimcuitur                           31%         7,794
Industy                               5%         1,278          3,913          5,111          20,000
Commerce                              11%        2,683          3,913          10,733         42,000
Othdr                                27%         6,926           3,913         27,702         108,399
Unenployed                            27%         6,874           978          27,498          26,900
TOTAL                               100%       25,556                        71,044         197,298
Sarlakaodi
Town      No of        Setor enployment    EAmingpworker        LAst           Lost
Populaion Households    %         Nunber        (rkhmonth)       Mionths     Eamnings (7k)
Sector          15,000     2,778
Arickute                             36%         1,479
Commerce                              11%         431           3,913           1,750          6,848
Odier                                27%         1,129           3,913         4,517          17,674
Unmployed                            27%         1,121           978           4,413           4,386
TOTAL                               100%        4,167                        10,750         28,907



ANNEX 8
Pa e 14 of 18
Table 6
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Tabk 6: Unit Economic Voale of Property Cateories
Mh4pwS a                                                           Si1*ganj
M      I_m   Sisqi    Ra- a%                                ULS    TOW    R*ph.omi   %,    Us                         Tod
Plptmy ad blh, Caamy                    N                        VaY             D_  D_me  D_mg                     Vau         Damage  D_a   D_aa
n                         Tn        000o h         Tilk0oon                          nr
Cade                                     230        200          2,460              1.00   2.460      56s.300.0         2460        100      2.440   246,000.0
s     _3oam                              450        200           n20               1.00    520       369,000.0          320        1 00       3e   l64,000.0
pod.y                                   3500       3000           25                1.00     25        27,SOO.0            23       100         2S    75,00.0
~MS 3 D__
kai Botm
PI'M                                      3          30          I,230             0.50    615         4,920.0         1,30       050        615    11,450.0
ssnP.i                                   I3           0          308                1.00    301         2,464.0          410       1 00       410      4,100.0
P,aeea                                     0         20            0                 -       0              -            ,230      0 50        615    12,300.0
Sami-P                                     0         10            0                         0              -            410        1 00       410     4,100.0
P,iv  Ho    m    _hop
P                                        IS         100          246               0.50     123         1,845.0          246       0 50       123    12,300.0
SwUk c                                  725        2700           2s                1.00     25        11,125.0           25       1 00       2U    67,500.0
lsMtk                                    725       1320            a                1.00      *         5s,3o.0 o                   I 00         I    30,560.0
D_oW
_100                                       3         to          1.6eo              1.00    1,600       4, e0.0         I,Je        1.0      4150      111100.0
_aa                                        7          6           304               1.00    304         2,1Lv0           304        1 00       304      lm"
liddo-Colvens ~ ~ ~             I         l            23-4              1.00    234         IMo              2U1        I.oo       2n       2,1O,
EM __1080                                 O                      la U2               .0     1#2            -             12        1.00       Ila         3&4
lid_fi1~~                            ~    ~     ~     ~~       ~        ~~~~ 1   21  1.00  21   -21                     I.00         21        I"



ANNEX8
Page IS of 18
Table 7
BANGLADESH
RIVER DANK PROTECnION PROJECT
Table 7: Net Damep per Heetars due to Regional Flooding
Gc              Vidn bl          GC_              Na           C,.991.          WuV_
Raa             atl PIa          Rs3 .           Da-m            IaIa_'
Crop                            Tk               (%)              Tk                             ( 
Floedia  u July
T. Am(L)                           19.39             400%           11.316          7.67            35.0%             2.67
T. Am  (HYV)                       29.W              40.0%          17.535         11.0             50.&%             5.845
Svwcu                              27.0"             20.0%          2116            5.410           10.0%              541
Toeol                                                                                                                  9,073
Floo&  irn Auag
T. Ah                              19.193            60.0%           7,677         113.516          35.0%            4.030
T A.                               29.,22            600%           11,690         1735             50.0%            8768
Suw.m                              27.048            200%           21.638          5.410           100%               541
Totel                                                                                                                133339
Flod  in* S
T Am                               19,193 m0.0%                      3,839         15.354           35.0%             5,374
T A .                              29.25             80.0%           5,.48         23380            50.0%            11.690
SUgc                               27,045            200%           21,63          5.410           10.0%              U4l
Total                                                                                                                17.605
Sav   Floodi g  S     _pemnib
T. Au                              19.193           300.0%               0         19.39            35.0%            6.717
T. Am                              2922             100.0%               0         29,22!           50.0%            14,613
SU Ma                              27.0"             50.0%          133.24          3.524           10.0%             ,352
TOUl                                                                                                                 22,U2



ANNEX 8
Page 16 of 18
Table 8
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Tableb : Elpected Value of Crop Damage
Caused by Regional Flooding
Am                           TO         3.tap..   PralmhUey            Expeted    C_i
A*etd         Damage         Da_me         _awl RAwu      edihed         Damage        D    _
(M)         (Thha           Th00           YMm                          Th 000       Th0
Me md Y_
A. Foda dwe BRE D     ei na S
Jly 196                                            2.300         9,073         23.404           1.01      0.01            25.153        2f.1f3
July 399                                          34.100         9,073        309,3U4           6.67     0ls              46,413        71.36
AW    19t7                                        3S.00         13,339        40929             O.000    0.90             46,953       l18mit
Se_ ebw  913                                      3t300          17,605       674,62           20.00      0."              33.713       132231
M     _dinm                                       70.000        22.62       1,387.739        200.00      1.00              7,939       160Q170
B. Fl_.d    a dw sMWW  of DBed__p
_11_-
Jity 1916                                          1,000         9.073          9.073           1.01     0.03              3.9t3         I"3
July 1919                                         49.300         9.073        447.29            6.67     0.33             67.061        76.04
Avp   1967                                        40,100        13.339        33223            10.00     O.90             53,622       129,66
S_mbw 19U                                         71.100         17.403      1.21,706         20.00      o.9              62.585       192.2l
100,000        22,682      2;6ha21          200.00       1.00            11.341       20,392



ANNEX-8
Page 17 of 18
Table 9
BANGLADESH
RIVER DANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Table 9: Expected Value of Property and
loinatcture Damap Csus.d by Rogooal Flooding
Area               Total   Brahmnputra  ProbabUity  Ex ted    Cuomulato
Afhcted  Damage   Damage  Flood Return    of Flood       Donage       Danagp
(ha)    (Tk/ha)   Tk 000       yenr                     Tk 000       Tk 001
Mooth and Year
A. Flooding due to BRE
Breach at Sarakandi
July 1986                      2,S00       185       S1B           1.01         0.01       513             513
July 1989                     34,100       185      6,309         6.67          0.85       946           1,459
August 1987                   35,200       185      6,512         10.00         0.90       651           2,110
September 1988                 38,300      185      7,086         20.00         0.95       354            2,465
Maximnum                       70,000      185     12,950        200.00          .99        130           2,594
B. Flooding due to Merger of
Brahmaputra and Bangali
July 1986                      1,000       185       185           1.01         0.01         2               2
July 1989                     49,300       185     9,121          6.67          0.85     7,752           7,754
August 1987                   40,200       185      7,437        10.00          0.90     6,693          14,448
Septenber 1988                 71,100      185     13,154         20.00         0.95     12.496         26,943
Maximum                       100,000      18S     18,500        200.00         0.99     13,315          45,258



ANNEX 8
Paze 18 of 18
Table 10
DANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Tabb 10: Crop lucomne witb and without Projet
Crop with Project      %Cropped Area            Total Area       GrombMargin         Regional Income
B. Aus                               2               3,965               2,704                10,721
T. Aus                               3               5,217               9,597                50,067
T. Aus (HYV)                         9              16488               17,017               287,386
B. Aus/Aman                          I               2,636               4,279                11,280
Jute                                 1               2,609               2,895                 7,553
Broadcst Aman                        2               3,103               2,846                 U8,31
T. Aman(LIV)                        33              61,676               8,643               533,075
T. Aman (HYV)                       48              89,263              16,855              1,504,541
Boro (L)                             0                  0               11,480                     0
Boro (HYV)                          70             128,757              15,128              1,947,791
Whet                                 4               7,813              4,459                 34,837
OilseeduPules                        7              12,095               5,292                64,001
Potato                               6              10,875              -2,553               -27,766
SugarCane                            6              10,947               7,931                86,816
Vegetables/Chilies                   6              10,599              11,728               124,309
TOTAL                              198             366,443             118,300             4,643,443
Crop without Project    % Cropped Area          Tota Area        Gross Margin        Regional Income
B. Aus                               2               3,001               2,704                 8,115
T. Aus                               3               4,764               9,597                45,719
T. Aus (HYV)                         9              15,512              17,017               263,970
B. Aus/Am nn                         1               4,784               4,279                20,473
Jute                                 1               2,382               2,895                 6,896
Broadcst Amuan                       2               4,612               2,846                13,126
T. Aman (LIV)                       33              62,400               8,643               539,333
T. Aman (HYV)                       48              79,482              16,855              1,339,681
Boro (L)                             0                  0               11,480                    0
Boro (HYV)                          70             128,757              15,128              1,947,791
Whea                                 4               8,478               4,459                37,802
Oilseed/Putses                       7              11.921               5;292                63,080
Potato                               6              10,798              -2,553               -27,570
SugwCane                             6              10,065               7,931                79,821
Vegetables/Chillies                  6              10,731              11,728               125,857
TOTAL                              198             357,687             1 1,300              4,464,095



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Reportinz Reguirements
1.         The following reports would be sent regularly to IDA:
(A): River Bank Protection Proiect Component.
This includes all activities in connection with: Implementation, O&M, Land Acquisition and
Resettlement, Environmental Monitoring, BWDB RAC/Accounting Support, and BWDB Information
Management.
(a)   six monthly reports within one month of the closing of the first and third quarters of each
financial year. The report would include physical and financial progress and would follow
the outlines given in para. 2 below;
(b)   quarterly progress reports on the contract management and supervision of the river bank
protection works (to be prepared by the Engineer);
(c)   semi-annual progress reports on the BWDB Accounting upgrading component (to be
prepared by the BWDB Director of Accounts with assistance from the accounting
consultant);
(d)  semi-annual progress reports on the monitoring and maintenance activities of the O&M
Unit (to be initially prepared by the maintenance support consultants during their
assignment, and subsequently by the O&M Unit and PIU);
(e)   audited financial statement of the project, together with the auditor's report and opinion on
the financial statement, and the auditor's separate opinion on SOEs, within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year; and
(f)  the borrower's contribution (Section II) to the Project Completion Report, within three
months of the Borrower's receipt of Sections I and III from IDA.
(B): National Water Planninz Component.
(a)  six monthly reports within one month of the closing of the first and third quarters of each
financial year. The report would include technical and financial progress and would follow
the outlines given in para. 2 below;
(b)   quarterly progress reports on the technical assistance, comparing actual usage against
targets given in the work plan.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
(c)   audited financial statement of the project, together with the auditor's report and opinion on
the financial statement, and the auditor's separate opinion on SOEs, within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year; and
(d)  the borrower's contribution (Section II) to the Project Completion Report prepared by,
within three months of the Borrower's receipt of Sections I and III from IDA.
2.         Scope of Reports. The six monthly reports, together with the quarterly and respective
semi-annual reports, should provide sufficient information for the use of IDA supervision missions
tentatively scheduled for June and December of each financial year. The outline suggested for the
monthly report would include (the contents of reports for the national water planning component would
be modified as appropriate):
(a)   The Executive Summary;
(b)   Physical Progress. This chapter would contain information on all components: major and
minor civil works, land acquisition and resettlement, and O&M support activities (including
procurement), and the BWDB accounting improvement component. The achievements
expected each year are detailed in the performance indicators given in Annex 7. The report
would also include a brief discussion on progress of each component. Attachments to the
report would include tabulation of the physical progress of all project
components.(Annex 6). Tabulations would include: achievements up to the previous
reporting period and achieved in the current reporting period; concise information on the
major and minor civil works contracts updated schedules for procurement of computers,
vehicles and equipment and implementation;
(c)   Technical Assistance. This chapter should include tabulations of the staff complement of
consultants during the reporting period, cumulative inputs and unused residual inputs for
each technical assistance components;
(d)   Training. This chapter would report on the training of BWDB staff by the implementation
and maintenance support consultants respectively, and by contractors, and training
conducted for WARPO staff,
(e)   BWDB  Accounting Improvements. This chapter would contain  information on
institutional building technical assistance (accounting consultants and trainers, procurement
of computers and furniture for RACs, preparation of training materials;
(f)   Financial Progress.   This chapter would include: (i) expenditures (targets and
achievements) incurred according to the items of disbursement listed in paras 2.41-2.44 of
the SAR and, in addition, for those items financed by GOB (ii) a forecast on cost over-
run/savings when appropriate; and (iii) status of reimbursement applications;
(g)   Problems.  This chapter should include: (i) problems identified during the previous
reporting period, actions taken to resolve the problems and results; and (ii) problems
identified during the reporting period and proposed actions;
(h)   Attachments



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
3. Additional Reports for the National Water Plannin! Component.
The main technical reports and their contents expected from this component are outlined in Annex 8
paras 17-20, and its Attachments A and B. In addition, WARPO, assisted by its international
consultants, will produce:
(a)   A Project Inception Report which will contain, inter alia, a detailed work plan to be
prepared by WARPO within three months of the mobilization of the expatriate consultants;
(b)   An Interim Report 18 months after mobilization of the consultants describing the technical
progress made, conclusions reached and recommended amendments to the initial work plan;
(c)   A portfolio of Medium-Term Water Sector Projects by June 1998;
(d)   A Draft of the National Water Management Plan by June 1998, the final Plan by June
1999.
(e)   A Long-Term Water Strategy document by March 1999; and
(f)   A portfolio of Long-Term Water Sector Projects by December 1999.
The relationship of these report outputs to other national water planning activities is shown in Annex 7.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION SCHEDULE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
1. Proiect SuDervision Plans
Mission                    Specialty                           Total
N o._            _  _   _  _  __                       _  _  _  _  _  _    _
Eng.    WRP        TI    Pro.    RT.E.    Staff          Weeks
1/96       1        1        1       1                   4           8
6/96       1        -        1       -         -         2            4
12/96      1        -         1       1        1          4           8
6/97       1        1                          -         2           4
11/97*      1        -        1                1          3           6
6/98       1        1                          -         2            4
12/98      1        -        1                 1          3           6
6/99       1        1                         -          2            4
11/99*      1        -        -                1          2           4
6/00       1        1        1                -          3           6
1 1/00**    1        1                                     2           4
TOTAL    11          6        6       2        3         28           58
X__                       -I- _  _  __                       (62)"
Each supervision mission would last 2 weeks and each mission member would have a 2
week assignment.
Notes:
*       Implementation Reviews
**      Initiation of Implementation Completion Report
Eng.    Engineer
WRP    Water Resources Planner
TI      Training/Institution Specialist
Pro.    Procurement Specialist
R.T.E. River Training Expert
at    An additional 4 staff weeks of miscellaneous expertise should be included and deployed as
necessary.



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Proiect Coordination and Civil Works Manasement Duties
The Proiects Works Director
1.    The Project Works Director's responsibilities and duties would include:
a) serving as a liaison between the civil works contractors and BWDB, and conveying the Board's
decisions on contractual matters to them through the Engineer;
b) contracting with the project consultants and administering their contracts (including timely
submission for progress requests);
c) serving as the Engineer's interlocutor with the BWDB and ensuring that the Engineer
discharges his duties faithfully as per his consultancy agreement for implementation of
technical assistance;
d) monitoring the timeliness and progress of land acquisition by field offices and the progress of
Resettlement Plan implementation by the Resettlement Unit of BWDB's Land and Water
Directorate;
e) contracting with NGOs to assist in the implementation of the Resettlement Plan (when
necessary);
f) overseeing the preparation of NCB bidding documents for the BRE retirement sub-component
of the Sariakandi/Mathurapara protection works;
g) arranging for BWDB review and approval of any design changes submitted by the Engineer;
h) reviewing and approving payment and other contractual certificates certified by the Engineer;
i) coordinating BWDB's review of the Engineer's proposals for variations, extensions of time,
settlement of financial claims and other contractual matters requiring BWDB's prior clearance
and approval;
j) preparing agendas for periodic meetings of the civil works disputes review boards and
maintaining regular correspondence with such their chairmen;
k) reviewing the Engineer's progress reports and monitoring their timely submission;
I) assisting BWDB's Bogra Circle office in planning and implementing the minor civil works
component for Sariakandi/Mathurapara and monitoring its implementation; and
m) ensuring that the project Director is represented at District Coordinating Committee meetings



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
n) arranging and overseeing procurement of vehicles and equipment for the O&M Unit, and for
the projectes accounting improvement cornponent; and
o) facilitation and monitoring the transfer of O&M Unit core staff receiving initial training by
civil works contractors.
The Proiect Coordinator
2.    The Project Coordinator's duties would include:
a)    ensuring timely submission of disbursement requests to IDA;
b)    preparing consolidated reports on project progress for submission to IDA (Annex 9) and
coordination of the activities of project supervision missions (Annex 10);
c)    facilitation of timely presentation to BWDB of all civil works contract decision and issues
prepared by the Project Director (para 3.2);
d)    assist the Project Director in coordinating and organizing periodic meetings of the Dispute
Review Board for civil works contracts;
The Enuineer
3.    The Engineer's overall supervision duties would include:
(a)    specifying and supervising surveys and investigations during the period between award of
the two contracts and the start of the main construction season in order to obtain the
baseline data for subsequent impact monitoring during construction and the current
morphological infonnation required for finalization of the layout of the works;
(b)    preparing updated designs to suit the actual site morphology and bed bathymetry at the end
of the monsoon season imnumiately preceding the start of the main construction period;
(c)   responding to contractor's queries on design and material specification matters;
(d)    preparing documentation for variations, extensions of time, utilization of Provisional
Sums, and any other management decisions requiring the prior approval of BWDB;
(e)    keeping BWDB informed on progress, the early identification of difficulties and
bottlenecks, and advising BWDB on appropriate action to minimize the likelihood of
delays and situations that could lead to the submission of financial claims by contractors;
(f)    advising BWDB on contractual issues, contractors' requests for extension of time and
evaluation of financial claims;



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
(g)    carrying out quality assurance audits, issuing of all certificates specified in the contracts,
and certification of contractors' invoices for payment; and
(h)    preparation of monthly and quarterly progress reports.
Chief Resident Enzineers
4.     The principal site supervision duties of each Chief Resident Engineer would include:
(a)    monitoring the contractor's compliance with contract terms, conditions and specifications
(including provisions for environmental impact mitigation during construction);
(b)    monitoring the contractor's compliance with the agreed Method Statements, Work Program
and Quality Plan, setting out of works, preparation of foundations, etc.;
(c)    monitoring the quality of materials and compliance with construction tolerances, including
the supervision of surveys and tests for quality audit purposes;
(d)    checking the quantity of work completed and included in the contractor's submissions for
interim payments;
(e)    checking contractors' method statements and proposals for temporary works, referral of
these to the Engineer for approval and monitoring compliance with these statements;
(f)    preparation of "as built" record drawings;
(g)    progress monitoring, forecasting of bottlenecks and exploring means of addressing them
within contractual provisions; and
(h)    responding to emergency situations as they arise.



ANNEX 12
Page I of 2
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1.    Extensive use was made of reports published by the River Training Studies of the
Brahniaputra River (BRTS) funded under Cr. 1870-BD. The studies were prepared for BWDB
by Messrs. Sir Williarn Halcrow and Partners in association with Danish Hydraulic Institute,
Engineering and Planning consultants Ltd., and Design Innovations Group. Relevant consultant's
reports in the Project File are:
(a)    BRTS: "Report on Priority Works", October 1991.
(b)    BRTS: "Second Interim Report", December 1991.
(c)    Brahniaputra Right Bank Priority Works: "provisions for Operations and
Maintenance", June 1992.
(d)    Brahmaputra Right Bank Priority Works: "Environmental Inpact Assessment",
July 1992.
(e)    Brahmaputra Right Bank Priority Works: "Design and Construction
Managment Report", August 1992.
(f)    Brahmaputra Right Bank Priority Works: "Resettlement Plans", December 1992
(revised June 1993 and April 1995).
(g)    BRTS: "Detailed Report on Model Studies of Revetment Structures", January
1993.
(h)    BRTS: "Final Report on Physical Model Studies of Revetment Structures",
January 1993.
(i)    BRTS: "Report on Model Studies", Novemnber 1992.
(j)    BRTS: "Draft Final Report", January 1993.
(k)    BRTS: "Master Plan Report", May 1993.
(1)    Brahmaputra Right Bank Priority Works: "Prequalification Document", May
1993.
(m)   Brahnmaputra Right Bank Priority Works: "Tender Documents", June 1993.
2.    The following documents were prepared for IDA's use and are included in the Project File:



ANNE 12
Page 2 of 2
(a)    Danish Hydraulic Institute - Surface Water Modeling Centre: "Breakthrough to the
Bangali River at Mathurapara-Mathematical Model Investigations", Dhaka, May 1993.
(b)    Brahmaputra Right Bank Priority Works" "Engineer's Estimate", April 1995.
(c)    Brahlnaputra Right Bank Priority Works: "Review of Cost Estimates", March 1993.
(d)    Sir William Halcrow and Partners: "Cost Estimate Calculations for Priority Works:
loose leaf folder compiled April 1993.



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 16
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
NATIONAL WATER PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
Evolution of the Government's Sector Strateav
1.    Background. The 1964 Water Master Plan' proposed a major program of investments to
control Bangladesh's rivers and develop large-scale flood control and drainage (FCD) and surface
irrigation projects. In contrast, the Bank's 1972 Land and Water Resources Sector Study2
downplayed major FCD and surface irrigation, instead recommending that emphasis be given to
public investment in minor irrigation (low-lift pumps and deep tubewvells) and small scale FCD
projects. This approach set the agenda for IDA's long-term strategy in the sector and in practice
has also helped define the Government's sectoral development strategy. Moreover, when it became
clear in the early 1980s that inefficient public policies and institutions were hampering the
achievement of the full potential of the minor irrigation and fertilizer technologies, GOB introduced
policy reformns that led to the privatization of irrigation equipment and fertilizer supply. These
reforms, together with the advent of cheaper shallow tubewell technologies, facilitated a subsequent
rapid increase in dry season rice production and led to the attainment of virtual rice self-sufficiency
in the early 1990s. Even so, the debate between those who advocate emphasis on large scale
structural investments for flood control and irrigation, and those wvho emphasize minor irrigation,
small-scale FCD and non-structural interventions has continued to this day (see below).
2.     National Water Planning. In 1983, a UNDP-supported national water planning exercise
was initiated with the creation of a new agencv, the Master Planning Organization (MPO), and the
recruitment of consultants. IDA was the executing agency in supervising the studies but did not
determine their outcome.  The Phase I report which was completed in 1986 confirmed the
continuing role of private sector minor irrigation in meeting the projected medium-term demand for
foodgrains; greatly increased the understanding of the potential of groundwater; and contributed
significantly to the development of improved data bases, planning methodologies and resource
evaluation techniques. For the longer term, the 1986 report envisaged that major public sector
investments in flood control and surface irrigation would ultimately become necessary. This was
given more immediate emphasis in the 1991 Phase 1I Report which recommended an ambitious
US$4.2 billion 20-year program for construction of FCD projects to increase monsoon rice
production and complement minor irrigation development.
3.    In essence, the 1991 project portfolio contained very few new projects, but recommended
that studies be completed by 2005 for the detailed design and implementation of the Ganges and
Brahmaputra Barrage irrigation projects which had originally been proposed in the 1964 Water
Government of East Pakistan/International Engineering Company, Aaster Plan for Water and Power Resources
Development, 1964.
2 World Bank, Land and Water Resources Sector Study-- Bangladesh, Report No. PS-13, Asia Projects
Department, December 1, 1972.



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 16
Master Plan. However, in making these recommendations, the report gave inadequate attention to
a number of important issues, in particular:  (a) institutional and implementation capacity
constraints; (b) the potential adverse effects of FCD and river barrage projects on fisheries and the
environment; (c) the efficacy of major surface irrigation projects, especially in areas irrigable by
private minor irrigation; and (d) the dwindling dry season flows of some major trans-boundary
rivers notably the Ganges. With the submission of the Phase II report, the temporary MPO was
transformed into a permanent Water Resources Planning Organization (WARPO) in March 1992,
and UNDP assistance for national water planning ceased.
4.    The Flood Action Program. The NWP proposals were, however overshadowed by the
impact of the 1987 and 1988 floods which attracted worldwide attention and gave rise to a major
controversy concerning the role of major embankments and FCD projects. A number of reports
were prepared, ranging from those that advocated the full embankment of the major rivers to those
that recommended more cautious approaches. At the request of GOB and the major donors, the
World Bank therefore agreed to coordinate the efforts of the Government and donors in preparing
the Flood Action Plan (FAP), a complex and ambitious program of studies and pilot projects
designed to investigate, over a five-year period at a cost of US$150 million, alternative approaches
to dealing with the flood problem.
5.    A new temporary agency, the Flood Plan Coordination Organization (FPCO), was created
to implement and administer the FAP and the World Bank agreed to coordinate donor support for
FAP studies and international and local Panels of Experts. The Bank's role as coordinator enabled
it to provide guidance on design of the various studies, to establish common standards for the
studies in such fields as environmental impacts and people's participation, and establish procedures
for the examination of proposals. However, the role of coordinator does not provide control over
the final output of the studies. FAP comprises eleven major components (five regional planning
studies; four studies focusing on specific programs -- the Brahmaputra Right Bank Embankment,
the Coastal Embankment, Dhaka Urban Protection, Secondary Cities Protection; two studies
focusing on non-structural programs -- flood forecasting and flood preparedness; and sixteen
supporting studies and pilot activities). This program of studies and pilot projects is now
approaching completion and a draft final report has been prepared by FPCO.
6.    During the course of its implementation, many of the FAP activities broadened their focus
and there have been a number of notable achievements including preparation of guidelines for
project preparation, environmental assessment and stakeholder participation; improved
understanding of the performance of FCD projects and their impact on fisheries and the
environment in general; development of important new technologies including GIS and systems
modeling; and investigation of alternative approaches to controlled flood management
(compartmentalization) and river training.
7.    Despite the progress made under the FAP, much remains to be done. Not only are there a
number of activities which remain incomplete but it is necessary to bring together the FAP studies
to a common basis within a consistent national framework. GOB proposes the integration of the
FAP results into the National Water Plan, but as indicated above (para 2), the NWP was itself in
some respects deficient. Not only has the FAP greatly added to the information and analytical
base, but it has also led to innovative approaches to water resources and environmental



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 16
management. What is needed therefore is a full reiteration of the national planning effort which
does justice to what has been achieved while evolving a comprehensive long-term plan for land and
water development consistent with national objects.
8.     A recent Government paper Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy (March
1995) has set out a five-year transitional program to complete such an exercise and to implement
the necessary supporting institutional reforms. Government's short-term strategy (1996-2000) has
been developed around the need to fully integrating the existing body of knowledge and take up
priority measures for addressing imminent flood and other water resource problems. The focus of
the short-term strategy will be:
(a)    a National Water Management Plan (NWMP) using the knowledge base of the
National Water Plan, FAP, lessons learned from previous FCD/I projects,
groundwater development, and urban and sectoral water need projections;
(b)    enhancing institutional capacity, for undertaking upcoming programs, through
development of necessary legislation, policy, organization, professional expertise,
training, and other necessary infrastructure.
(c)    establishing economic, social and environmental norms and environmental quality
standards to regulate agricultural, industrial, navigational, municipal and domestic
water use;
(d)    instituting plans for operation and maintenance and creating an appropriate
institutional framework for expanded beneficiary participation in the planning,
implementation, operation, and maintenance of water management infrastructure
and facilities,
(e)    speedy completion of incomplete projects to achieve stipulated targets in the
shortest possible time; and,
(f)    implementing a portfolio of essential projects and programs (e.g. flood warning,
disaster management, information dissemination, river training, Thana drainage,
protection of urban, commercial, industrial and public utility centers), that meet
very specific criteria, including appropriate analysis with social costs and
accounting of externalities and linkages.
Key to the development and implementation of the short-term strategy is organizational
restructuring of the main water sector institutions.
Institutional Reform
9.    In order to develop a continuing capacity for policy formulation and water resources
planning, GOB is considering alternative institutional reforms which inter alia are expected to
create an effective policy and planning agency in the Ministry of Water Resources. This will
consolidate the functions of the existing WARPO with those of the FPCO so as to establish a



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 16
unified organization with a capacity to meet the evolving requirements for water resources planning
in Bangladesh. One of the first functions of the new organization will be to undertake the
preparation of the proposed National Water Management Plan (NWMP) with the support of
national and international consultants. It is recognized that an enormous effort has gone into
national water planning in the context of both the NWP and FAP and that this has so far yet to
produce a satisfactory outcome. Nevertheless, the water sector is critical to the future of
Bangladesh. Without continued support, there is a real danger that what has been achieved will be
lost and that development will proceed in an unsatisfactory and piecemeal fashion which does not
address Bangladesh's development priorities.
10.   Reforming and enlarging the role of WARPO to become the apex national water planning
institution will involve five tasks:
(a)    A Review of water sector responsibilities and institutional mandates.
(b)    Agreement on the division of responsibilities between WARPO and BWDB.
(c)    Enabling legislation to give WARPO the apex water sector planning role, and
complementary legislation to confine BWDB's role to project implementation and
planning.
(d)    Review and modification of WARPO's institutional structure to enable it to
absorb FPCO and broaden its multi-disciplinary planning capability, particularly
for environmental management and participatory planning.
(e)    Implementation of the reform program for WARPO.
11.   It is expected that GOB will schedule these tasks over the period September 1995-January
1996. Two key events which Nvill set the scene for achievement of the above tasks will be
(a) approval of the Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy scheduled for Cabinet
review in August, 1995, and (b) an international conference on the FAP recommendations
scheduled for mid-September 1995. It is expected that a clear sense of direction for national water
planning will emerge from these two key events, and much of the groundwork on tasks 1 and 2 will
be completed.
12.   An immediate task wvill be to make preparations to merge FPCO into WARPO and provide
technical assistance to substantially strengthen WARPO's multi-disciplinary planning capability.
In the period to December 1995, institutional restructuring,  reforms,  strengthening and
development will concentrate initially on WARPO (with FPCO), in its overall planning and data
base role, and continue on BWDB in its project preparation, design and implementation role. The
recently initiated organizational reforms of BWDB agreed between GOB and IDA in August 1994
is the forerunner of strengthening and development programs, which will in the first instance focus
on improved O&M of existing projects, better management of implementation, and transparency
in the accounting system. The 1996-2000 program will see a significant shift to the multi-
disciplinary approach need for comprehensive water management and the increasing importance of
environmental management. The institutional framework is expected to ensure effective multi-



ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 16
sectoral participation at all stages of water sector development from broad planning right down to
O&M in the field. Institutional developmcnt programs during 1996-2000 will also cover the
growing role of the private sector. The rest of the projects and programs are subject to further
preparation, either by desk, ficld or pilot study. Social, environmental and institutional programs
will have a high priority, particularly the institutional development program without which there
will be very little effective development of water management and planning.
Preparing NWMP
13.    After the merger of FPCO  into WARPO in January 1996, the GOB proposes to appoint
consultants to assist WARPO in developing enhanced capability to undertake overall planning and
NWMP preparation. The planning exercise would be carried under rigorous and transparent
arrangements. A technical review of the NWMP by a panel of experts (national and international)
will be carried out. NWMP should be seen as a rolling plan to be reviewved and updated every five
years. It would provide a firm plan for the next five years, an indicative plan for the subsequent
five years and a perspective plan for the long term. This way the plan would be sufficiently
flexible to accommodate changes in the socio-economic environment and technological advances,
while maintaining its direction.
14.   WARPO's main planning task after 2000 will be reviewing and updating of the first
NWMP. The frequency at which the rolling plan will need to be updated is not known, but five
years can be assumed to be the maximum interval. With effective monitoring, a good data base,
new information technology and modem evaluation and planning techniques, WARPO should have
no difficulty in reviewing water sector performance and updating NWMP whenever required.
Socio-political and economic realities are likely to change in the future and technological advances
may alter the present thinking on agriculture, fisheries, river and environmental management.
However, the framework set in the short-term (1996-2000) will provide a basis for the future. The
key task of WARPO is to keep on updating criteria and water sector planning so as to cope with
the inevitable structural changes in the Bangladesh economy.
15.    Water sector projects and programs beyond 2000 will have been determined through the
comprehensive NWMP process. This will involve careful application of updated FAP criteria and
guidelines. Social, environmental and institutional provisions will have been built-in to produce a
new generation of projects, which are formnulated through people's participation, are locally
acceptable and environmentally sustainable. Structural projects would probably fall into similar
categories as in the short-run, but there wvould be changes in emphasis. River bank erosion
protection and river training projects would be the first steps in a program aimed at longer-term
river management. New water and flood management projects would be introduced if they are
technically, economically, socially, environmentally and institutionally justified.
16.    Three main sets of considerations will govern proposals for the preparation of a National
Water Management Plan (NWMP):
(a)    It should look forward to what Bangladesh's society and economy must look like in
future rather than back to the concerns of the past.  This will require designing
water resources policies, programs and projects to help promote structural change



ANNEX 13
Page6of 16
in the national economy. Given the long-term nature of many water resources
programs, and the extended patterns of urban and industrial growth, the NWMP
should have a perspective which looks forward well into the next century.
Moreover, it should be truly multi-disciplinary and multi-sectoral. A break must
be made with planning studies which focus predominantly on the agricultural
sector. It is true that Bangladesh's population is largely rural, and poverty is
concentrated in rural areas. But Bangladesh can only break out of its stagnant
growth path if there is a sharp increase in investment and an acceleration in
industrial development. Given the potential for private groundwater development
and for increased yields, the agricultural sector can still continue to grow. Indeed,
accelerated overall growth will itself lead to increasing per capita demand not only
for rice but also for other diversified agricultural crops, and will hence provide
further stimulus to the agricultural sector.
(b)    It must be more realistic about the prospects for institutional and implementation
capacity than in the past. Public responsibilities in water are inherently more
extensive than in most other sectors and everything possible should be done to
strengthen  institutional capacity.   But systemic problems affect public
administration in Bangladesh, and there are no particular reasons why
performance in water should be significantly better than in other areas.
Participatory approaches and decentralization may have a role and private
initiative should be promoted where feasible (e.g. in exploiting groundwater and
perhaps in investing in major water projects). But, even so, no more than a
gradual improvement in overall performance can be expected. In evaluating future
programs, realistic assumptions with respect to implementation and management
capacity are essential.
(c)    Preparation of the NWMP should be seen as an iterative consultative process. It
should be designed to fashion a long-term planning framework compatible with
national goals and objectives and with sound environmental management
principles.  Consultations should be structured, in close cooperation with the
counterpart agency and subject to the ultimate directives of the Government, so
as to involve all the major stakeholders in the review process. At each stage of
this consultative process, alternatives should be presented and analyzed for
discussion purposes, with all the important evaluation and decision factors
displayed so as to allow an objective evaluation of the preferred course of action
compared to other feasible alternatives.  The aim will be to develop a flexible
planning system capable of continuous evolution rather than to present a rigid
blueprint. It is anticipated that the NWMP will be subsequently updated on a
regular basis, possibly every five years.



ANNEX 13
Page 7 of 16
Objectives
17.   The primary objective of the proposed National Water Management Plan would be to
contribute to rational economic development of the country's water resources while protecting the
natural environment and improving the quality of life of the citizens of Bangladesh. To this end,
the proposed project would aim to:
(a)    Consolidate past data collection activities and develop a coherent and sustainable
data base on water resources and associated land resources;
(b)    Consolidatc past and on-going approaches to the analysis of water resources
issues and, to the extent necessary, develop additional complementary analytical
tools for the evaluation of water resources issues on a sustainable basis;
(c)    Bring the five FAP regional studies, together with other past and on-going sub-
regional and regional studies, onto a common basis suitable as building blocks for
the preparation of the NWMP;
(d)   Integrate the results of past studies with those of the earlier NWP reports, with a
view to consolidating those aspects of value in the preparation of the NWMP;
(e)    Integrate the results of FAP supporting studies, investigations and pilot programs,
together with any other similar past and on-going activities, with a view to
consolidating those aspects of value in the preparation of the NWMP;
(f)    Prepare a National Water Management Plan which responds to the evolving
requirements of national society and economy; and
(g)    Help establish and strengthen the institutional capacity for on-going water
resources planning and policy formulation.
The broad scope of work required to achieve these objectives, reflecting the conclusions and
considerations set out above, is provided in Attachment A. The overall schedule for the national
water planning component is given in Attachment B, and detailed cost estimates of the planning
effort are given in Attachment C.
Study Phasing
18.   It is suggested that the NWMP studies would fall into three overlapping phases. During
Phase 1, the existing position would be fully documented and assessed, and a detailed schedule for
implementing the study program would be prepared. During Phase 2, national goals and objectives
would be evaluated; a consensus would be reached on the development, policy and institutional
framework; and broad water resources management options would be discussed and evaluated.
Phase 3 would comprise the formulation of the National Water Management Plan and its
component parts.



ANNEX 13
Page 8of 16
19.   While the three phases of the study provide a natural division of the study period, the
components of each would be overlapping and iterative. Within three months from mobilization of
the consultants, it is envisaged that an Inception Report would be prepared, presenting the main
conclusions of the review of existing reports, data and analytical techniques, and setting out a
detailed work program for the entire study period. Within six months of receiving GOB's formal
acceptance of the Inception Report, it is envisaged that a draft "Options Report" would be prepared
for iterative revicev and discussion with GOB and other major stakeholders. Within 15 months of
receiving clearance of the "Options Report", the final report would be submitted providing the draft
National Water Management Plan.
20.   It is expected that the overall study period would be three years allowing two months for
the review of the Inception Report, and 15 months for the iterative review of the "Options Report".
Preparation of the NWMP itself would, however, be initiated in parallel with the discussions of the
"Options Report". A further program of review and discussion would follow submission of the
final draft National Water Management Plan. Working papers, interim recommendations and other
reports will be submitted as appropriate on each of the major activities identified.



ANNEX 13
Page 9 of 16
Attachment A
SCOPE OF WORK
The NWMP studies are expected to fall into three overlapping phases. During Phase 1 the
existing position will be fully documented and assessed, and a detailed schedule for implementing
the study program would be prepared. During Phase 2, national goals and objectives will be
evaluated and a consensus will be reached on the development, policy and institutional framework,
and broad water resources management options will be discussed and evaluated. Phase 3 will
comprise the formulation and review of the National Water Management Plan and its component
parts.
The activities to be carried out during the three phases will include, but will not necessarily be
limited to, the following:
Phase 1.      Assessment of the Present Position and Submission of Detailed Study Proposals
(i)    Document, review and examine all the available reports and data relevant
to the comprehensive planning of Bangladesh's water and associated land
resources, and provide a coherent summary of past institutional, development and
related proposals;
(ii)    Document, review and evaluate systems of data collection, processing and
analysis relevant to the comprehensive planning of Bangladesh's water and
associated land resources;
(iii)   Document, review and evaluate the analytical methods in use or under
development, including both those concerning the simulation and analysis of
different aspects of the physical system, and those concerning the evaluation and
optimization of development proposals;
(iv)   Describe the strengths and weaknesses in the existing reporting, data, and
analytical, and identify any major gaps, inconsistencies and shortcomings; and
(v)    Prepare an inception report describing in detail the proposed planning
approach together with a detailed work program for the full study period.
Phase 2.     Identification of Water Resources Management Options
(i)    Document and assess national social and economic goals and objectives
relevant to the formulation of water resource management options and to the
preparation of a NWMP;



ANNEX 13
Page 10 of 16
Attachment A
(ii)     Describe the major driving forces that will help determine future
development trends and prospects, and evaluate their relative importance and the
extent or otherwise to which they can be managed to meet national goals and
objectives;
(iii)    Develop indicative population, settlement and economic projections for
the Bangladesh economy in short (5 year), medium (10-15 year ) and long (30-50
year) terms, and present alternative perspectives of overall development prospects
and issues, on both a national and a regional basis;
(iv)      Describe and evaluate major water resource management issues,
including but not necessarily limited to issues associated with: floods and
inundation in urban, rural and coastal areas; water supply (surface and
subsurface) and demand (for agricultural, industrial, domestic, environmental and
other purposes) and the future water balance; in-stream uses (fisheries, navigation,
hydropower and other uses), their requirements and the constraints they impose on
water management; water quality, pollution (point and non-point) and sanitation
services; salinity intrusion and protection of the natural environment; and
international rivers and their particular characteristics and constraints;
(v)      Document and evaluate information on past performance of water
resources programs and projects in the public, cooperative and private sectors,
determining factors of relevance to the assessment of the selection and design of
future programs and projects, and setting out a clear view of the strengths,
weaknesses, opportunities and threats associated with alternative types of water
resource management intervention;
(vi)     Document and evaluate information on the institutional framework for
water, including the legal regulatory systems; organizational and agency functions
and responsibilities for managing the water and associated land resources;
organizational and agency functions and responsibilities for the delivery of water
services; and the respective roles of the public, cooperative and private sectors;
and identify options and scenarios related to the strengthening and/or reform of the
overall legal, regulatory and organizational framework;
(vii)    Taking into account on-going programs and projects, as well as those
identified in earlier studies, identify medium and long-term water resource
management options, including but not necessarily being limited to those related to
preventive interventions (flood control, drainage improvements etc.); water
development interventions (inter-regional water transfers, surface and sub-surface
water resource utilization etc.); interventions in the management of water quality
(sanitation, pollution control, salinity control etc.); and interventions for the
protection of the natural environment (ecological systems, habitats, etc.); together



ANNEX 13
Page 11 of 16
Attachment A
with measures to support the implementation, real-time management and O&M of
development programs and projects;
(viii)    Document and evaluate alternative water management policy measures
and approaches with a view to identifying options which would complement
supply management and water control interventions so as to lead to a balanced and
sustainable development of water and associated land resources, including but not
necessarily being limited to regulatory, financial, cost recovery and other demand
management approaches;
(ix)     Evaluate possible impacts of the full range of identified options on
national development prospects, and on the environment and resources setting,
through the use of appropriate analytical and modeling techniques, the aim being
to quantify and display important evaluation and decision factors so that an
objective evaluation is seen to have been made of any recommended course of
action compared to other feasible alternatives;
(x)     Develop a program of consultations and review in cooperation with the
Government and other important stakeholders with a view to reaching broad
consensus on the components to be included in the NWMP; and
(xi)     Prepare a report summarizing the conclusions of the options studies;
presenting the results of the consultation process; and providing a draft outline
NWMP.
Phase 3.      Formulation of the National Water Management Plan
(i)    Assess Bangladesh's water and land resources, and their medium and
long-term potential and constraints, evaluating the risks associated with cyclonic
events, annual and seasonal variability in river flows, long-term trends in the flows
in the border rivers, salinity intrusion, pollution, and other factors of major
significance;
(ii)    Propose medium  term  and long term  criteria for the preservation,
allocation and utilization of Bangladesh's water and associated land resources
which would serve the long-term requirements of Bangladesh's society and
economy, and specify the level of risks that can reasonably, or which will have to
be, incurred by different populations and users;
(iii)   Recommend a comprehensive and coherent data collection, processing and
analysis system relevant to the planning and management of Bangladesh's water
and associated land resources, specifying those elements of the system to be
centralized and those to be dispersed amongst different agencies, together with
arrangements for ensuring access and consistency amongst different sources;



ANNEX 13
Page 12 of 16
Attachment A
(iv)   Develop and introduce an analytical framework to allow the systematic
evaluation and assessment of water resources management options within the
broader multi-sectoral resources allocation context. Such a framework should seek
to link analyses of the physical system with those of development and management
options so as to meet the needs of sustainable development and protection of the
natural environment, specifying how far analytical capacity is to be centralized
and how far it is be dispersed amongst different agencies, together with
arrangements for ensuring access and consistency amnongst different activities;
(v)    Based on a systematic evaluation of the identified water resources
management options, and taking into account the results of  the consultative
process, formulate a comprehensive long-term water management plan which
responds to national goals and objectives, and scheduled according to appropriate
time periods. The proposed plan should provide for regional balance, subject to
the requirements of overall economic and social development and to protecting the
natural environment. It should be specified in relative detail over the medium
tern, and in outline terms over the longer term. Where there are major unknowns
and/or risks, these should be described together with measures for resolving such
uncertainties over specified time periods;
(vi)   Consistent with the long-term water resources management plan, prepare
a long-term investment portfolio phased according to GOB's norrnal planning
periods. Such a portfolio should inter alia include, the location, outline designs
and alignments of major works, orders-of-magnitude costs (by domestic and
foreign components), annual operation and maintenance requirements and
economic justification for each other major projects and the annualized
investments for the entire plan;
(vii)  Identify priority, near-term water management programs and projects for
implementation during the first five year period, and propose a detailed feasibility,
design and construction schedule;
(viii)  Together with the Surface Water Simulation Modeling Center (SWMC)
or its successor agency, analyze the impact of the proposed plan in the medium
and longer-terms on river levels and other relevant quantities with a view to
checking the consistency of the overall physical impacts;
(ix)   Make recommendations to strengthen and--to the extent necessary-reform
institutional capacities in support of the implementation of the proposed NWMP,
including the proposals for any further reviews necessary of the legislative,
regulatory and organizational framework in support of water resources
management;



ANNEX 13
Page 13 of 16
Attachment A
(x)    Recommend measures designed to strengthen the implementation, real-
time management and subsequent O&M of completed systems, reflecting the
knowvn constraints and performance problems associated with water resources
management interventions in Bangladesh;
(xi)   Recommend complementary regulatory, financial, cost recovery and
related demand management policies designed to ensure  the balanced and
sustainable development of water and associated land resources; and
(xii)   Design a monitoring and evaluation system to facilitate the sustained
monitoring of the changes in the national resources and environmental setting;
provide for an efficient information management system to record program
impacts and performance; and allow feed-back of performance results into the
decision making and planning system.



ANNEX 13
Page 14 of 16
Attachment B
STUDY SCHEDULE AND OUTPUTS
While the three phases of the study provide a natural division of the study period, the components
of each would be overlapping and iterative. Subject to these considerations, the Consultants will:
(i)    Within six months from  mobilization, submit an Inception Report
presenting the main conclusions of the review of existing reports, data and
analytical techniques, and setting out a detailed work program for the entire study
period;
(ii)    Within six months of receiving GOB's formal acceptance of the Inception
Report, prepare a draft "Options" report for iterative review and discussion with
GOB and other major stakeholders; and
(iii)   Within twelve months of receiving clearance of the "Options" report,
submit a final report providing the proposed draft National Water Management
Plan.
It is expected that the overall study period will be three years. allowing two months for the review
of the Inception Report; and twelve months for the iterative review of the Options Paper. A further
program of review and discussion will follow submission of the final draft National Water
Management Plan. Involvement of the Consultants in this program is expected to be the subject of
a subsequent contract.
The consultants will be expected to schedule their work program over the full three year period to
reflect these major stages in the implementation of the study while ensuring that all the various
activities included are adequately undertaken. Working papers, interim recommendations and other
reports will be submitted as appropriate on each of the major activities identified.



40 bumoM OtO^l                                                                fXCq  -2:> =glv
O~~       ~~ a^03 . 6 0< 2:.  *   O 2 % .....f.fm.Oinfo... C : Z..-E.- Cg*^|    fln tc.*..-C 2@
*0 *C   C   fO>0 o*f'                        . noiC9-egooo-] ...CC  C  IScbcfl* -    -*  ewo *       6~
0 _-'6..4C .__       C l- g  ..5"-*f  OCfl*-GXn         **CUinbfl  **5*t   CC   0nSC
w~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                             CCC. *-fSS    fl_"QSn"*>  >_*"^"_e:   
a   fi     o  "C  *.        05                             2 en-f.l--W. O_W_..ne         C4a         C
o  r I*.   I                     -       r                        osI"3 5
fi        IC   4 *-            --50-ry.n  flfl._o   e_ .-nfl
o                                     x        * .  Swi S'            _ 1
0                                                     5*    C4       -              *  oo  
17 I a,
.n  a                                      4flOC0* 
C,.~~ ~   ~ --                       E           
-                                               o-
ER^       -   ^O ..   .-                                          C.,
7~ ~       ~                                 l       - l 1   -
I***_    sU  ^__^_____U_*   ________9 
i^                                             - o ^   oo  ^^*^^ u***o utoov  ** u u u   o^^*    w^*  r o** o   u ~   ffi
-~~~~~     ~~~~ LL     . . .1    .^^ .* .1 . . . . .- F: . .           
_ w -oro > ,w,, UU___ 000^ U_ U UI U U000 ^ b___  Z_ ZUO .   ..  .   ..   . 
r~~~~~~~~~~            Z Z       Z.       . . . .u  . .i^s  . .9*_  .s_  . Z^  Z       u";  
Zu. . . ..1. .                                   .I. 
o     . r , ,  --- UwoL^o^owoo*___*zoos 
_  o^t ^ a-                                             - 0---_-_*-  _..   .I-1
aaa .^-            I4                       sO---  ...w^v;-- III                                 F1
.......00000    ........                              . 
05                        U
a....6.   0  Oa..........c                                          Z  ZS     .0
tr~~~~~ ~ |                                                               I  -i   - * r          sl|e
flu.....4                                                           . a.
~~. ...~~~L....2...  .......          E                      .L
g  i r o o  4 ..
~             ~ ~~~~~~6 46               6 6 6 6 6.0 S;P ;.             . . . . .
66
- I      . .55b. .    . . . . .                                           I . .
aa;too   oL.  _ .a5 .    af...  .......a--.c...



ow  r  ww  o>o       ^^^**oow^"sX  r....                    r .    r.   ...
ro-3r~~   ~               .....   ............58@6r~e~>    **            3-w-* 
~~i   1    ~      1-   ~~~~~~ -;~~..........r 
' ''       5     i'    ''     ''.'...|......t                                       |
_ ~~~~~~ _ ~~~~~.                                            .   f + * o i v orw    9z-..-. . . . ..@
> 53 M ****~~~~~~-** -3**Sfi ........
-    X *   r - **e - ^>> v * *** - v**                               . . . . . . . . . r r c - .
s  De  t  rv*r* e --r-r*-  --rr g! .                            .   -     .  E -   . . . . .
.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
" 1 o clv we^^^*^rro*oeov@@>oo- *qnr wq ^ -+ gr I
s;                    |     -row   rrrrW           *@or-"-*-F*3......r......!33
Q                    I    ---   1   ^;-;--^-----;                   -;;    1:|-      1-  1'L-.
;i   s  wt  r   wq     rrrlo   oooo           rr00*r;   1-- ti-- in   !L,,,



MAP SECTION



IBRD 27506
8900                                                    89O3f\                                                90n30'
(T.   L  g  j     \BANGLADESH
\ - lsriclerl ,\        91    t / %RIVER  BANK
PROTECTION PROJECT
Simulated Area Flooded by
-25'30'         -.  "'\                   /  {           l         |  i J   /                 Merger of Brahmaputra and                  2530
--   to,oX  *  (  {            9            0?g                     Bangali Rivers at Sariakandi
.77 /   9  iESTIMATED AREA INUNDATED IN 1988
ESTIMATED ADDITIONAL AREA INUNDATED
ASSUMING MERGER OF BRAHMAPUTRA
RIVER WITH BANGALI RIVER AT SARIAKANDI
PRIMARY ROADS
\  --  --  SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS
RIVERS
"N. ~ ~       ~      ~       \               0\ t
25'00'                                                                                                                                   25'00'
<,<  \  4    \    r vrk-_,  \                  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 0    20
KILOMETERS
E 0  '-                                  1         0       a        y   )      VS   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'N--
430'                                                                                                                                       2430'
ond ony other rtrformotrorn shownr on         4\--!..rttr\
GA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
this .np d. -ot-ply, onthe polf  . .\1  t f
The W-rl 89-f G,o/p, sny 1*dg-eo\X                           ~        //_         u                    }   >
o the 1o0sto sof on terr-to-y,r                     \
ony endorse-e-- or occeptonce of such
89 bo00 dore                                            800                                                   9
90*3r
11,1/1 99q5flrm c, 21~-F  3. -cx On   Ff 3~T F8rr



4    ta   ;   N D  A                          3~~~~~~~ANGLADESH
r   5  N  0t   s .,  91>                ~~~RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
-    t  <  01\  ,J^I )                    --4befrnworlrilrdorArs~~~~I ND I 
S~ I' A                 ;SlX A 
' P ' I'    A                     .NDIA                                        C.%    
|    v   s   <   2  W  Sj  ,   s   tb   a    .........   /   \  g   
DMK A)                                                                               MYANMAR .s*
....ooi \     9 ,2   /INDIA



I8RD 27506
'39-0'                                                8 /   /ci5<f03\9 0                                 9030
--oX,AL, 0                  A    I -,v                        BANGLADESH
\' 33 q(ry    X        gl                         RIVER  BANK
PROTECTION PROJECT
/  6> g  \  /,p/Simulated Area Flooded by
2530           -                                                         i                Merger of Brahmoputro and
--(2 <    |   \   ,   y   Bongali Rivers at Sariakandi
\~ /  9   jrJ0]K%l;   [=3ESTIMATED AREA INUNDATED IN 1988
ESTIMATED ADDITIONAL AREA INUNDATED
ASSUMING MERGER OF BRAHMAFUTRA
RIVER WITH BANGALI RIVER AT SARIAKANDI
PRIMARY ROADS
- -SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS
- \\ 9 t /t(Xt\s0ij; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~                020'
KILOMETERS
-10  -                                                                                            2 4 .   lj   (1302t.   0  t \  /
1' .\. 'h, o: ,                                                                                                                    s
fh, VP                        _.-, th pw                                     * Ti|/.i
~~~,yfhoar>-3;r, Ig IV j0 v.. 0- 1-ft20
anyebndo,s.me,to. oc,epIarcs tonf  - 2Such                        'l l)sA   
89-00.                                               891301                                              90 30'
11/6/1995 ffwqTF  j2i ip p3 s        3 r h   f



I MAG I NG
Report No:       15090 BD
Type: SAR



