Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6727-BD
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 78.4 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 13, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(April 1995)
Bangladesh Taka 1                                      US$0.0248
US$1                                                   Tk 40.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (i)            =                               1.1 yards (yd)
I kilometcr (kin)      =                               0.61 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)         =                               2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRE                    -    Brahmaputra Right Embankment
BWDB                   -    Bangladesh Water Development Board
CAS                    -    Country Assistance Strategy
Cr.                    -    Credit
CY                     -    Calendar Year
ERR                    -    Economic Rate of Return
FAP                    -    Flood Action Plan
GDP                    -    Gross Domestic Product
GOB                    -    Government of Bangladesh
ICB                    -    International Competitive Bidding
NCB                    -    National Competitive Bidding
NGO                    -    Non-Government Organization
NPV                    -    Net Present Value
NW`P                   -    National Water Plan
O&M                    -    Operations and Maintenance
PCR                    -    Project Completion Report
PPAR                   -    Project Performance Audit Report
R-AC                   -    Regional Accounting Center
RAP                    -    Resettlement Action Plan
SDR                    -    Special Drawing Right
WARPO                  -    Water Resources Planning Organization
GOB FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
GLOSSARY
Grovne                 -    A rigid structure built out from the shore to stop erosion by deflecting the
current.
Minor Irrigation       -    Irrigation using mechanical pumps typically in units of 50 ha or less.
Monsoon                -    Period of annual rains starting in June and ending in October.
Project Proforma       -    An internal Government document required to obtain authorization for the
inclusion of a project in the investment budget.
Revetment              -    A facing of stone or concrete to protect an embankment from erosion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
MEMORANDUM OF TRE PRESIDENT
Credit and Proiect Summars
Borrower:                  People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Imnlementing Agency:       Bangladesh Water Development Board.
Beneficiarv:               Not Applicable.
Poverty:                   Not specifically focused, but flooding and river bank erosion disproportionately
affect the poor who have minimal assets to buffer flood losses or involuntary
relocation. Many of the poorest are former erosion victims.
Amount:                    SDR 78.4 million (US$121.9 million equivalent).
Terms:                     Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:            0.5% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Financing Plan:            See Schedule A.
Economic Rate of Return:   The beneficiaries of the project would be the estimated 2-3 million people living in
the area of potential disaster caused by the Brahmaputra breaching its right bank at
Mathurapara-Sariakandi to flow down the Bangali river channel. About 125,500
urban people will be protected from severe property loss, impoverishment and
physical displacement caused by river bank erosion or chronic flooding at Sirajganj
and Sariakandi. Flooding of the approaches to the Jamuna Bridge would disrupt
local trade. The project would protect agricultural production over an area of about
100,000 ha from annual flooding and control erosion at Sirajganj which is essential
for the security of the Jamuna Bridge. Property losses prevented in the first five-
year period would include 16,400 houses and shops, 75 factories, at least 9,000
traditional dwellings and considerable public infrastructure. The economic rate of
return (ERR) for the project is 39%, and 45% and 35% respectively for the
Sirajganj and Sariakandi-Mathurapara subprojects. The ERR does not include the
national water planning or BWDB institution building component.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 15090-BD.
Maps:                      IBRD No. 27505: River Bank Protection Project.
IBRD No. 27506. Simulated Area Flooded by Merger of Brahmaputra and Bangali
Rivers at Sariakandi.
Project Identification Number: BD-PA-9545.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TOTHE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
1.     I submit for your approval the following mcmorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Pcople's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 78.4 million, the equivalent of
US$121.9 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. This credit will help finance
river bank protection to stop the Brahmaputra from disastrously breaching its right bank and flooding
the hinterland, secure the Jamuna Bridge and two towns through erosion protection works, and assist
water sector institutional development.
Sector and Proicct Background
2.     Land and Water Scctor. Bangladesh, one of the poorest countries of the world, occupies the
floodplains and delta formed by the confluence of the Ganges and Brahmaputra Rivers at the head of the
Bay of Bengal. Consequently, the country's agricultural and economic development is constrained by
monsoon floods, salinity, tidal inundation, cyclones, river bank erosion and continuous meandering of
the major rivers. The severity of some major floods and cyclones often attains disaster proportions as in
the 1988 flood and 1991 cyclone. Agriculture is still the mainstay of the economy and accounts for
about 36% of GDP and about 60% of employment. Processed and unprocessed agricultural products
account for about 32% of exports. Despite vulnerability to flood damage, the country's foodgrain
production rose from 9.9 million tons in 1961/62 to over 19 million tons in 1993/94. About two-thirds
of this increase came from dry season cropping facilitated by the Government of Bangladesh's (GOB)
successful policies of introducing and expanding the use of small pumps, tubewells, high-yielding rice
varieties and fertilizers and by policy reforms in the late 1980s liberalizing trade in minor irrigation
equipment and fcrtilizer. About one-third of the net cultivable area is now irrigated and, for the first
time in recent memory, Bangladesh is now self-sufficient in rice production in years of normal weather.
Nevertheless, Bangladesh still has to import wheat and other food products. Continued rapid population
growth (reduced somewhat to 2.0% per annum) means that Bangladesh must continue substantial efforts
to accelerate agricultural growth.
3.     Sector Issues. Given the success with minor irrigation, the principal land and water sector
issues relate to the formulation of long-term policies and investments which will: (a) ensure equitable
access to water for all users; (b) foster further agricultural growth by encouraging more minor irrigation
by private farmers using abundant groundwater resources; (c) enable viable and environmentally benign
public and private sector investment in flood control and drainage works; (d) not exceed the
implementation and maintenance capacity of the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB); and
(e) enable stakeholders, other agencies, non-government organizations (NGOs) and the private sector to
participate in water sector planning, implementation, and operation and maintenance. As a result of
GOB and donor conccrns arising from the severe floods in 1988, the World Bank prepared the Flood
Action Plan (FAP) Study program in 1989 and has since served as the program's coordinator. The FAP
is a five-year program consisting of: (a) routine studies to formiulate a portfolio of structural and non-
structural investment projects to mitigate major flood hazards; (b) studies to formulate a river bank
erosion control program for the Brahmaputra and Meghna Rivers; (c) various pilot projects to test
innovative concepts of flood and river bank erosion control; and (d) various supporting studies to
investigate social, environmental and disaster management issues arising from project proposals. The
final report of FAP, "Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy" (August 1995), now
recognizes that flood management has to be seen witlhin the context of year round water management
and development, and that many of thic earlier technical solutions for flood control have significant
problems.  In consequence, GOB is planning a more integrated approach to water and flood



2
management with particular attention being paid to environmental impacts, particularly fisheries,
peoples' participation in project planning, implementation, operation and maintenance (O&M), and
institutional strengthening. At the same time, the FAP report recognizes that major institutional reforms
are needed to improve water sector planning, implementation capacity, and maintenance of completed
works. The FAP will be conmpleted in December 1995, and its functions will be integrated within the
Water Resources Planning Organization (WARPO) which will require substantial strengthening to
become a fully effective national water planning organization.
4.     Brahmanutra Rivcr Bank Erosion Impacts. River bank erosion is a persistent hazard faced
by land owners and cultivators of land adjacent to the meandering major rivers. Such erosion leads to
the landward collapse of the river bank over stretches of several hundred meters at a time. On the
Brahmaputra River, erosion rates vary greatly from year to year, averaging about 100 meters, but
sometimes reaching up to 800 meters in a peak year. Such erosion results in loss of fertile land and
destruction of buildings, major bridges, embankments, ferry terminals and other essential infrastructure
at major riverbank towns. Along the Brahmaputra River's west bank, cumulative erosion results in
discernible westward migration of the river channel in some reaches. This erosion periodically breaches
the 220 km long Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) which is home to some 100,000 sqatters -
most of whom are former erosion victims - and widespread flooding affects areas that have enjoyed
significant economic development since construction of the embankment over 25 years ago. To prevent
such breaches and the consequential flood damages, sections of the BRE have been realigned since the
1970s to the extent that only 70 km of the structure still follows its original alignment.
5.     Erosion along the Brahmaputra River's banks has a significant social impact. The loss of land,
crops and property has led to landlessness and impoverishment for thousands of households. Over the
period 1980-92, land capable of supporting 405,000 people was eroded. Allowing for continued
increase in population density, it is estimated that about 578,000 people may be displaced by erosion
over the next 20 years and about 400,000 may be forced to migrate from the area, many of whom may
end up in the peri-urban slums around the major towns and cities.
6.     The economic value of losses to the economy of the northwest region from bank erosion along
the Brahmaputra river is considerable. At five locations, where erosion is currently very active
(Fulchari, Sariakandi-Mathurapara, Kazipur, Sirajganj and Betil), the total cost of erosion losses over
the next five years is estimated to be about US$75 million (in 1991 prices), but erosion protection can
only be economically justified where significant property and infrastructure are at risk (see para.11).
Losses consist of productive agricultural and u.ban land, severe damage to property (houses, shops,
public buildings) and infrastructure (roads and bridges, power and telephone lines, and railway
embankments). If present erosion rates are sustained, there is a strong likelihood that a total of about
11,700 ha would be eroded in the coming 30 years in the vicinity of Sirajganj town and near the villages
of Sariakandi and Mathurapara. The potential loss of 1,500 ha of the built-up area of Sirajganj is of
particular concern. The town is an important administrative and trading center with a population of over
100,000. It has agro-industrial enterprises (textile, oil, sugar and jute mills) and a river ferry terminal
for rail and boat traffic. The town is protected from flooding by a section of the BRE which has been
incorporated into existing bank stabilization works which were constructed in the early 1970s when
erosion first threatened the town. When erosion became more serious in the 1980s, the Ranigram
Groyne was constructed north of the town. Both structures have performed well, but they were
damaged by the severe floods of 1987 and 1988 and a larger than normal flood could cause widespread
failure of the existing works which could result in the erosion of one-third of the area at Sirajganj
(500 ha) - including its commercial district - within five years. As a direct consequence, the BRE
would have to be realigned behind the town leaving the rest of the town exposed to major floods. The



3
stability of the Jamuna Bridge (Cr. 2569-BD) which is under construction about 5 km downstreamn is
dependent, inter alia, on erosion being controlled at Sirajganj.
7.     At Sariakandi, as a result of erosion, the Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers are presently
separated by a strip of land about 1 km wide. Some protection to Sariakandi is provided by the Kalitola
Groyne which was designed for a small side-spill channel of the Brahmaputra River. However, it is
now exposed to the main force of the river and is in an advanced state of structural deterioration due to
adjacent bank erosion. Further realignment of the BRE is not possible because of the proximity of the
Bangali River. Without further protection, the narrow strip of land separating the Bangali River from
the Brahmaputra River will be completely eroded within 5 years with the loss of Sariakandi town
(population 15,000) and a merger of the Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers would then occur. A merger
of these two rivers would result in perennial flow from the Brahmaputra into the Bangali River and
would be a major environmental disaster. This would permanently augment the Bangali River's
discharge, increase its flood potential, and result in greater depths of inundation and larger areas
flooded. Not only would crop and property damage be caused in the incremental areas flooded, but the
augmented flooding in the Bangali River floodplain would damage the road network leading to the
Jamuna Bridge and disrupt local trade.
The Proiect
8.     Progect Ohiectives. The project's principal objective is to prevent the erosion of land at two
locations on the west bank of the Brahmaputra by the construction and maintenance of improved river
bank protection works, which would: (a) protect Sirajganj town's built-up and semi-urban areas from
major damage and cumulative destruction; and (b) prevent the merger of the Brahmaputra and Bangali
Rivers in the vicinity of Sariakandi and consequential increased regional flooding. Further objectives
are to assist GOB in: developing permanent institutions for improved water sector planning; preserving
the institutional capacity developed under FAP; making multi-disciplinary planning part of Bangladesh's
normal water sector planning processes; and to assist BWDB's institutional reform program through
improvements in its accounting and management information systems.
9.     Project Description. The proposed project consists of the following components:
a) Rehabilitation and construction of river bank protection works at two sites on the
Brahmaputra River's west bank, including realignment of about 8 km of the BRE to
link the bank protection works near Sariakandi and Mathurapara;
b) Land acquisition and a program of resettlement for people displaced by project works;
c) Technical assistance for implementation  and maintenance support of works
constructed under the project;
d) Establishment, staffing and initial funding support for an O&M Unit in BWDB to
maintain the protection works constructed under the project, and procurement of
vehicles and equipment for the O&M Unit;
e) Institution building technical assistance to WARPO to integrate the FAP within the
framework of national water planning, produce a national water management plan and
a portfolio of investment projects for the medium and long-terrn, and upgrade
integrated water sector planning capability; and
The Brahmaputra River is also known as the Jamuna River, thus the Januna Bridge crosses the Brahmaputra
River.



4
f) Institutional capacity building technical assistance to BWDB to improve the operation
of the new regional accounting centers (which includes training), and provision of
equipment and transport to improve project supervision capability in the field and
internal communications.
The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period starting in early CY 1996.
10.    The project's cost is estimated at US$156 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of about US$58.6 million (38%) and duties and taxes of US$18.5 million. A breakdown of
project costs and the financing plan are presented in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement
and disbursement, and the estimated disbursement schedule are in Schedule B. A timetable of key
project processing events and the status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh are shown in
Schedules C and D, respectively. Two maps (IBRD No.27505, 27506) are also attached. The Staff
Appraisal Report, No. 1 5090-BD, dated November 10, 1995, is being distributed separately.
11.    Site selection and design of the river bank erosion protection works are based on an extensive
field and laboratory research and testing program. This includes examination of design, construction,
operation and maintenance of 11 existing river bank erosion protection schemes and 31 other hydraulic
structures along the Brahmaputra River's right bank, the investigations and design of the Jamuna
Bridge's river training works, physical and mathematical model studies, and review of engineering
design practices in India and the USA. A master plan short-listed 10 potential sites for civil works, and
the three having the highest economic return - Sirarjganj, Sariakandi and Mathurapara - were selected
for detailed design. At Sirajganj, the only physical solution was protection of the river bank, whereas at
Sariakandi-Maturapara, diversion of the Bangali River was considered as an alternative solution to
prevent the merger of the Brahmaputra and Bangali. High cost, the large area of land to be acquired
and thousands of people to be resettled eliminated this alternative. Of the two feasible erosion
protection methods (groynes or revetments), or a combination of the two, revetments were selected for
all sites on the basis of type of erosion monitored for more than 15 years along the Brahmaputra,
experience with the performance of groynes since 1978, and cost-effectiveness given the construction
materials available and required maintenance.
12.    Proiect Implementation. All project components other than National Water Planning would
be implemented by BWDB. A Project Director at Bogra, assisted by a Project Coordinator at Dhaka,
would coordinate implementation.  In view of BWDB's limited experience with the proposed
construction technology, construction contract management and engineering supervision would be
undertaken by experienced international consultants on behalf of BWDB. These consultants would be
vested with the powers and duties of "The Engineer" as specified in IDA's Standard Bidding Documents
for major civil works. Selected BWDB staff would be seconded to the consultants' construction
supervision team, to ensure technology transfer to BWDB personnel. A specialized O&M Unit would
be established under the project for monitoring erosion and maintaining bank protection works.
Technical assistance would be provided to train the O&M Unit's staff in maintenance technology and
management. BWDB has established a Project Management and Resettlement Unit (PMRU) to
coordinate resettlement activities, with assistance from consultants and an NGO. PMRU staff and
consultants will work with the District Commissioners to ensure prompt provision of compensation for
acquired assets in accordance with the law, and will administer provision of additional compensation
and rehabilitation assistance in accordance with an agreed Resettlement Action Plan. The small
components for assistance in improving BWDB's accounting and management information systems
would be coordinated in Dhaka by BWDB's Member Accounting and Member Administration
respectively. Project coordinating committees, at the national and district levels, would assist in
coordinating project implementation and dissemination of information concerning project activities.



S
13.    The National Water Planning Component would be implemented by WARPO, which is
responsible for strategic planning of water resources, reviewing and evaluating water sector plans and
projects, and collecting and disseminating water sector data. A cabinet level National Water Council
will provide policy guidance. Consultants financed under the project will assist in policy guidance, plan
formation and institution building. GOB has agreed to finance an international Panel of Experts which
would provide an independent review of WARPO's work programs, strategic planning, and project
proposals.
14.    Experience under Prior Projects. IDA-financed projects implemented by BWDB have been
affected adversely by dclays in land acquisition and processing of civil works contracts, insufficient
local funding allocations, poor quality construction and inadequate maintenance. However, in recent
years adequate funding of IDA-financed BWDB projects has not been a problem. Based upon prior
sector work, a BWDB institutional reform program was agreed in September 1994 and performance to
date in implementation of the program has been satisfactory. Key measures include approval of
Guidelines for People's Participation in project design and operations, introduction of an improved
accounting system, a phased program to separate staff and responsibilities between construction and
O&M, and reforms in personnel policies. This project has been designed to take account of problems
observed under prior operations. Use of contractor prequalification and International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) for major civil works and supervision by experienced consultants with the powers and
duties of "The Engineer" are expected to improve performance in contracting and construction quality.
Improved land acquisition procedures and improved compensation payments are modeled on the
experience gained from the Jamuna Bridge project, and are also expected to reduce delays. For the
small embankment realignment component to be awarded through National Competitive Bidding
(NCB), agreement has been reached to use Class A contractors2 (or expatriate firms with equivalent
qualifications). The establishment of a specialized O&M Unit for riverbank protection works and the
training to be provided by consultants to the Unit's staff are expected to improve maintenance
performance.
15.    Proiect Sustainability. The project implementation arrangements described above are
designed to: (a) ensure safe and timely construction according to design specifications and fixed
seasonal schedules; (b) create an organizational and recurrent budgeting focus for O&M of river
training and bank protection works in general, and project works in particular; and (c) ensure the proper
equipping of an O&M Unit and training of its staff. While in the short-run this project will add to the
GOB's development expenditure for erosion and flood protection, the chronic loss of public
infrastructure to erosion and property damage caused by flooding that would occur without the project -
averaging about US$1.7 million per year - will more than offset the US$1.2 million cost of operation
and maintenance. The annualized O&M costs is less then 0.5% of BWDB's annual budget, and
represents about 4% of the FY94 O&M allocation for BWDB. GOB has been meeting its undertaking
under the Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2099-BD) to increase allocations to BWDB's O&M
budget by 10% annually (net of inflation). The overall GOB financial allocation for BWDB's
maintenance works (excluding work financed under the food-for-work program) has increased nine-fold
since FY 1989. In consequence, this project should not crowd-out of essential rehabilitation and O&M
activities. The sustainability of the National Water Planning component is strengthened by GOB
approval on September 11, 1995 of the "Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy" at the
Cabinet level. GOB will place this document before an international conference of development
partners, NGOs and the public in late November 1995 to reach a consensus on the strategy and how to
implement it, and this gives further indication that GOB's commitment to the program is strong. The
desire within GOB for additional water sector projects arising from FAP studies and the strong position
2   This is the GOB classification of local contractors having the greatest capability and capacity for civil
engineering works.



6
taken internally by the NGOs and externally by the donors for reformed multi-disciplinary planning
procedures, increase the likelihood for the sustainability of this component.
16.    Rationale for IDA Involvement. IDA's involvement in the proposed project stems from the
Association's past support for river bank erosion control works and protection of towns and
infrastructure from erosion damage. The need for river bank erosion control projects was endorsed by
IDA's 1991 Environmental Strategy Report. IDA has played a leading role in supporting recent
comprehensive design studies which have developed and recommended improved technologies suited to
bank erosion control for major rivers such as the Brahmaputra. The scale of economic damage and
social disruption that would result from not undertaking adequate and early preventative measures at
two key locations on the Brahmaputra River's west bank prompted GOB to seek IDA assistance. Our
role in coordination of the FAP studies (para. 3) puts us in the best position to take a leadership role in
placing the improvements in sectoral planning and strategy initiated under FAP on a permanent basis.
17.    Country Assistance Strategv. The project is fully consistent with the revised Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) which was discussed by the Executive Directors on November 9, 1995. The
CAS emphasizes, inter alia, the importance of agricultural growtIh, development of rural infrastructure,
institutional reform and capacity building and the need to reduce the negative impact of flooding on
people's lives and livelihood.
18.    Agreed Actions. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOB that it would:
a) undertake all land acquisition and resettlement in accordance with an agreed Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP);
b) ensure that only Class A contractors would be allowed to bid for minor civil works contracts
under NCB procedures, and that contracts for earthworks would have a minimum size;
c) appoint civil works contract management and supervision consultants not later than the date of
signature of the first river bank protection contract and appoint selected BWDB staff to the
consultants' supervision team;
d) maintain project coordinating committees during construction of civil works, and undertake
project implementation reviews according to agreed schedules and arrangements;
e) prior to May 31, 1997, establish an O&M Unit for project works, appoint consultants for
maintenance support, and procure all specialized survey equipment for the O&M Unit's use;
f)  hold annual consultations with the Association on the level of expenditure required for O&M of
project works and provide adequate funds for this purpose during the project and after its
completion;
g) have all disbursements applications for civil works, resettlement, or O&M activities certified
by the implementation support or maintenance support consultants;
h) appoint key WARPO multi-disciplinary staff by June 30, 1996 and appoint by April 30, 1996 a
consulting firm and members of the Panel of Experts to assist in strengthening national water
planning, and prepare a National Water Management Plan by June 30, 1998; and
i)  the Project Proforma for the national water planning component of the project would be
approved by February 28, 1996;



7
19.    Since negzotiations, GOB has: (a) approved the revised RAP; (b) appointed the Project
Director, the Project Coordinator, and the professional staff of PMRU; (c) contracted for consulting
scrvices for land acquisition and resettlement for land and other assets required for the first year's
construction program and completed field work for the joint verification of the value of such assets
using the services of an NGO acceptable to IDA; and (d) received the tenders for the two ICB contracts
and consultancy proposals for construction supervision. Conditions of effectiveness are: (a) GOB
approval of the Project Proforma for the componcnts of the project to be implemented by BWDB; and
(b) approval by the Ministry of Water Resources of a draft Project Proforma for the National Water
Planning Component.
20.    Environmcntal Impact. The proposed project has been placed in environmental impact
category B. The project's revetment works are waterfront structures that are confined to 0.4-2.0
kilometers of river bank at each site. They do not destroy river fisheries or interfere with fish
movement. A fish pass structure to be incorporated in the section of the BRE to be retired under the
project will remove impediments to fish movement caused by the current embankment. The proposed
works would not affect sediment transport processes more than a few tens of meters beyond the river
bank and thus would not have any impact on growth and decay of major sand bars and islands in the
River. Project works would have minor and temporary adverse environmental and nuisance impacts
arising out of dredging and land-based civil works operations during construction. These impacts are
mitigable, and an enforceable Environmental Mitigation Plan has been included in the construction
contracts. Thus any deviation from specified environmental and behavioral standards by the contractor
would result in immediate repair or redress at his expense. Only bricks from coal-fired kilns would be
permitted to be used to prevent illegal consumption of timber as kiln fuel.
21.    Project Objective Cate2ories. The project, as part of the GOB's Five-Year Development
Program, would address natural resources management, environmental improvement and poverty
reduction objectives.
22.    Project Bencfits. The project has three principle sets of benefits derived from: (i) prevention
of damages caused by river bank erosion; (ii) improved project sustainability as a result of the
introduction of sound water sector planning; and (iii) enhanced institutional capability for project
construction supervision, financial control, and for operation and maintenance.
23.    Benefts from the Prevention of Erosion Damage. Benefits arise from the prevention of: (i)
river bank erosion damages to land, housing and infrastructure; and (ii) local and regional flooding
resulting from erosion-induced breaches of the BRE and merger of the Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers.
The quantifiable benefits arise from avoiding the following damages: (a) destruction of land, property
and infrastructure caused by erosion; (b) resultant loss of wages to unemployment; (c) damage to crops,
livestock, property and infrastructure on 400 ha near a BRE breach; (d) damage to crops, property and
infrastructure in the region caused by increased flooding due to the breakthrough of the Brahmaputra to
the Bangali River at Safiakandi/ Mathurapara; (e) reduction in the value of agricultural production due
to farmers changing to a more flood tolerant and low yielding cropping pattern in response to more
frequent and deeper flooding; and (f) costs to repair sections of the BRE breached by river bank erosion
that would not be necessary with the project.
24.    The project's river bank protection works would protect about 7,800 ha, including the urban
and peri-urban areas of Sirajganj (population 104,000) and the semi-rural areas of Sariakandi and
Mathurapara. The works at Sirajganj would also reclaim a 25 ha area for public use and squatter
resettlement. Surveys indicate that the total property loss prevented within a five-year period would
include about 16,400 masonry houses and shops, 75 manufacturing enterprises, at least 9,000 traditional
dwellings and considerable public infrastructure. A severe impact on the regional economy caused by
the loss of Sirajganj town and flooding of the road network serving the Jamuna Multi-Purpose Bridge
would be prevented. On an incremental area of about 100,000 ha, the risk of farmers changing to lower



8
yielding but more flood resistant crops would be avoided. Regression of the monsoon agricultural
economy to a state comparable with the physical environment existing in the 1950s, prior to the BRE's
construction, would be prevented.
25.    Strengthening National Water Planning. Tens of millions of people are affected annually by
flood damage, river erosion and periodic droughts. Most of these people are in the lowest national
income groupings, many of whom are landless which includes many female-headed households, and
thus sound water planning Icading to good water projects would have direct impacts on poverty
alleviation. Ovcr the longer term, demand for water in Bangladesh will increase rapidly as the
population is projected to increase by about 70 million to total about 190 million by the year 2025, and
at current rates of urbanization, the urban population will increase six-fold to 120 million in the same
period. Sound water planning and management is critical for the continued and accelerated growth of
the urban areas, agricultural sector and environmental management. It is particularly important to
design investments for agricultural growth in ways to avoid damage to fisheries which provide the main
source of animal protein in the Bangladeshi diet. In particular, the poorest rely almost entirely on
subsistence fisheries for their protein. It will also become increasingly important to provide safe water
supplies and protection from erosion and flooding of essential infrastructure to urban and industrial
areas which are required to secure a growing conimercial and industrial base. Efficient public
investments in water, flood management and sanitation services can be a significant factor in creating
the necessary conditions for attracting both domestic and foreign investment. The proposed project will
assist GOB to develop water strategies that focus clearly on facilitating and anticipating structural
changes in the Bangladesh economy, institutionalize and operationalize lessons learned from FAP
studies, and through its integrated and participatory approach, avoid the harmful externalities and public
resistance associated with many earlier water sector projects.
26.    Enhanced Institutional Capability. The capacity of the BWDB to supervise, operate and
maintain erosion protection projects would be significantly enhanced by on-the-job, local and overseas
training of GOB personnel who will service a specialized river bank protection operations and
maintenance unit. Support for the establishment of BWDB's Regional Accounting Centers and training
of their staff will facilitate financial accountability, while technical assistance to upgrade BWDB's
internal communications and management information systems will improve management and
supervision.  WARPO's capacity to undertake multi-disciplinary planning will increased by
appointment of non-engineering staff, through training, and the experience of producing a national
water plan assisted by international consultants under the peer review of an international Panel of
Experts.
27.    Bcneficiarics. The direct beneficiaries of the project would be the estimated 2-3 million people
living in the potentially flood-affected area including about 125,500 people - of whom 32,000 are
squatters - who would be protected from severe property loss, impoverishment and physical
displacement as a result of bank erosion or chronic flooding. While this project is not specifically
poverty focused, experience in Bangladesh shows that lower income groups are the least able to recover
from losses caused by erosion or severe flooding and become permanently marginalized. In particular,
small farmers who lose their holdings or are forced to sell land as a result of financial difficulties caused
by flooding, never recover but migrate elsewhere and often become paupers and squatters (cf. Para.5).
Conversely, although high income groups lose considerable assets by erosion and sustain major
financial damages as a result of BRE breaching, their ability to recover is relatively high and rapid. By
protecting the built-up areas of Sirajganj and Sariakandi from erosion damage, the project would protect
formal and non-formal wage-earners and entrepreneurs against temporary loss of employment and
income as a result of destruction of manufacturing establishments and commercial enterprises. It is
estimated that about 25,000 and 4,300 wage-earners in Sirajganj and Sariakandi, respectively, would be
affected and that it would take these wage-earners several months to find alternative sources of
employment and income. The prevention of an adverse change in cropping pattern induced by chronic
flooding would maintain the employment of hired labor needed for the current labor-intensive cropping



9
pattern. In addition, about 43,000 person-years of employment would be generated by the project in the
three year construction period.
28.    Economic nnalvses were carried out separately for the Sirajganj and Sariakandi-Mathurapara
subprojects, based on the benefit categories described in para. 22 for the most cost-effective solutions as
determined from the studies of alternatives described in para. 11. The economic rate of return (ERR)
for the river bank protection component of the project is 39%, and those for the Sirajganj and
Sariakandi/Mathurapara subprojects are 45% and 35%, respectively. At a 12% discount rate, the net
present value (NPV) of project incremental benefits is US$62.2 million and those of Sirajganj and
Sariakandi-Mathurapara are US$21.6 million and US$40.6 million, respectively. Moreover, the fiscal
impact of the project is affordable as described in para. 15. No attempt was made to quantify the
benefits from the national water planning or BWDB institution building components.
29.    Proiect Risks. The operation is subject to several risks:
a) Delayed Land Acquisition and Procurement could result in the loss of the 1996/1997
construction season. Failure to complete the bank protection works at Sariakandi-Mathurarpara by
June 1998 would significantly increase the risk of erosion of the remaining land separating the
Brahmaputra and Bangali rivers and greatly increase project costs. Delays beyond five years could
nullify the efficacy of the project as the Bangali may by then have become an established
distributary of the Brahmaputra-Jamuna river. The project preparation schedule has addressed the
implementation delay risk by advance procurement and the risk of delayed land acquisition through
initiating work prior to Board presentation, an agreed timetable and the fair and generous
provisions of the Resettlement Plan.
b) Major Flood or Erosion Damage could cause either major structural damage or failure. The
morphology of the river was extensively monitored and erosion trends have been determined from
ground surveys, analysis of maps since 1830 and satellite imagery since 1973. To minimize risk,
these empirical data were used to construct several physical and mathematical models which
simulated 25 years of local hydrology and river morphology in order to determine flood and scour
design events. In consequence, the civil works have been designed to cope with historic erosion
patterns and floods 1 m above the 1 in 100 year flood level, and for scour depths 10 m greater than
that likely to occur in 1 in 100 years. The materials to be used in the river revetment works
conform to the best international design practice and quality assurance monitoring will be a major
component of construction management.
c) Construction Cost Overruns. Past experience has demonstrated that most BWDB projects have
suffered from severe cost ovcrruns due to (a) inappropriate design; (b) inexperienced contractors;
(c) insufficient funding to complete projects on time; and (d) poor construction supervision. The
designs were undertaken by internationally recruited consultants and subject to international peer
review.  To ensure appropriate construction standards and timely completion, prequalified
international contractors have bid for the construction contracts under ICB conditions, and an
internationally recruited expatriate consultant firm will be appointed as "The Engineer."
Insufficient local funding has not been a problem in recent years.
d) Risks of Inadequate Operation and Maintenance. The physical design and materials used in the
river bank protection works are new to Bangladesh and there is a risk that they would not be
properly maintained. Inadequate financing of O&M would reduce the life of the investments
requiring premature rehabilitation. O&M sustainability risks are mitigated by the recent history of
improved funding (para. 15), and establishment and training of a project dedicated O&M Unit.
GOB has agreed to hold annual consultations with IDA concerning the level of expenditures
required for O&M of the works constructed.



10
e) Water Sector Reform and Planning. There is a risk that GOB might not continue with the water
sector reform efforts due to waning of political commitment, nor give WARPO the independence
and support it will need to ensure objective planning. However, GOB approval of the Bangladesh
Water and Flood Management Sirategy as noted in paragraph 15 above, the Government desire for
donor support for subsequent water sector projects, and the strong views expressed internally by the
NGOs and externally by the donors, are expected to reduce the risk substantially.
30.    Sensitivity analyses were undertaken to determine the effects on the ERR of: (a) delays in
project benefits resulting from slow implementation; (b) increases in project costs resulting from
inefficient management, higher than predicted rates of river bank erosion, delays over land acquisition
and procurement, or shortage of counterpart funds; and (c) additional protection works in the future
required by accelerated erosion upstream of the project. The aggregate project return is not made
unacceptably low by a one or two-year delay in obtaining benefits, but the ERR of the Sirajganj sub-
component falls to 10% with a two-year delay. At a three-year delay, the aggregate return is 13%.
These results underscore the necessity for a speedy project completion. The aggregate return falls to
23% with a 25% cost increase and to 16% with a 50% increase. The effect of cost overruns at
Sirajganj is particularly strong, as a 50% increase would reduce the ERR to 10%. Increases in project
cost are most likcly to occur bccause the risk of a severe flood increases the longer the project is
delayed. Such floods could cause accelerated river bank erosion and scour which may require a deeper
revetment, or partial loss of incomplete civil works. Such delays could be caused by procurement
problems, difficulties over land acquisition, or poor project management, hence the emphasis given to
these subjects in project design. The cost for additional upstream erosion protection works, although
they are not included in the financing plan of the project, would reduce the estimated ERR for the entire
project to 32% and at Sirajganj to 40%. Additional works at Sariakandi-Mathurapara would reduce the
estimated ERR to 28%.
31.    Rccommendations. I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply with
the Articles of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments: Schedule A-D
Washington, D.C.
November 13, 1995



11
Schedule A
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
1.     Estimated Project Costs (US$ Million)"
Local Foreign Total
1. River Bank Protection and BWDB Institutional Development
Civil Engineering
Major Civil Works                                       67.3   36.0  103.3
Minor Civil Works                                        1.2    0.2   1.4
Land Acquisition                                         0.8            0.8
Resettlement                                             0.7            0.7
BWDB Project Management                                  3.5            3.5
Works Maintenance
Survey and O&M Equipment                                 3.1    2.2   5.3
O&M Recurrent Costs                                      1.0    1.1   2.1
BWDB Management                                          1.1    0.1   1.2
Technical Assistance
Project Support - Construction Supervision               1.3    3.4   4.7
Project Support - O&M                                    0.4    1.1   1.5
BWDB Institutional Support & Training                    0.3    0.4   0.7
Vehicles                                                 0.3    0.2   0.5
Equipment                                                0.6    0.4   1.0
2. National Water Planning
WARPO Management and Support
Personnel & operating costs                              0.6    0.1   0.7
Vehicles                                                 0.6    0.4   1.0
Equipment                                                0.3    0.2   0.5
Technical Assistance
Institutional development                                1.0    4.5   5.5
Training                                                 00      0.2   0.2
Total Baseline Costs                                              84.1   50.5  134.6
Physical Contingencies                                            10.2    6.0  16.2
Price Contingencies                                                3.1    2.1   5.2
Total Project Costil                                              97.4   58.6  156.0
a/ Including duties and taxes of US$18.5 million equivalent
2.     Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign       Total
-     .---(USS mnillion)
Government          34.1            -           34.1
IDA                 63.3          586           121.9
Total        97.4          58.6          156.0



12
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Method of Procurement
(US$ Million)!'
ICB     NCB   Othersw   Total
Civil Works:
Major Civil Works               120.2                     120.2
(99.8)                    (99.8)
Minor Civil Works                          1.7              1.7
(1.4)            (1.4)
Land Acquisition                                    1.1     1.1
Resettlement                                        0.9     0.9
Operation and Maintenance                  2.0      1.8    3.8
(0.8)    (0.8)   (1.6)
Vehicles & Enuipment:
Vehicles                          1.6                       1.6
(0.7)                     (0.7)
Equipment                         1.1      0.4      0.1     1.6
(0.6)    (0.1)            (0.7)
Survey and O&M Equipment          6.2                       6.2
(2.6)                     (2.6)
Technical Assistance & Training:
Consultants                                        13.6   13.6
(13.6)  (13.6)
Overseas Training                                   0.2     0.2
(0.2)   (0.2)
GOB Proiect Manaeement:                                     5.1     5.1
(1.3)   (1.3)
Total                129.1      4.1    22.8  156.0
(103.7)    (2.3)   (15.9) (121.9)
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA.
' Others includes national shopping and procurement of consultants' services under IDA
procedures, and GOB procedures for land acquisition and line agency support (including
force account maintenance activities).



13
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Disbursement
Amount          Percentage of Expenditures
Category                                (USS million)           to be Financed
Civil Works (excluding resettlement)        91.10                    83%
Resettlement                                0.45                     50%
Vehicles and Equipment                       3.55      100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally.
Operation and Maintenance of Civil           1.70              85% through FY98
Works (excluding BRE Realignment)                                65% in FY99
and 45% thereafter.
Consultants for Civil Works; Operation      6.75                     100%
and Maintenance; Resettlement; BWDB
Institutional Strengthening; and Training
for BWDB Institutional Strengthening.
Consultants Services and Training for       6.00                     100%
National Water Planning
Unallocated                                 12.35
TOTAL                                       121.90
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA FY:      1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
Annual        25.2  41.9    33.2   18.6   2.6   0.4
Cumulative    25.2  67.1   100.3  118.9  121.5  121.9



14
Schedule C
Page 1 of 1
BANGLADESH
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processin! Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:        53 months (February 1990 - June 1995). v
(b) Prepared by:                  GOB assisted by a team of internationally recruited
consultants, with assistance from IDA.
(c) First IDA mission:            October 1990.
(d) Appraisal mission departure:  July 1992.
(e) Negotiations:                 August 14-19, 1995.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:  January 15, 1996.
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:
(i)    Chandpur Irrigation Project, Cr. 340-BD,
PPAR Report No. 3436, dated April 30,
1981;
(ii)    Karnafuli Irrigation Project, Cr. 605-BD,
and Barisal Irrigation Project, Cr. 542-BD,
PPAR Report No. 6521, dated November 21,
1986;
(iii)   Muhuri Irrigation Project, Cr. 725-BD,
PPAR Report No. 8654, dated May 16, 1990;
and
(iv)   Drainage and Flood Control Project, Cr.864-BD,
PPAR Report No. 8805, dated June 29,
1990.
a/.    Project processing was delayed by about a year pending agreement on BWDB institutional
reform program and preparation of an acceptable resettlement action plan.



15
Schedule D
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30. 1995)
Amount iUS$ miilhonj
'iscal                                                           F ess cancelHationsl
Credit No.    Year    Borrower            Purpose                     Bank          iDA        Undisburseu
2 Loans and 147credits nave been fully disbursed                         56.56     4239 32
of which SECALs, SALs and Program Credits !a                                      1446.53
Cr. 1 827-BD   1987  Bangladesh           Road Rehab. & Maintenance                  102.00         18.117
Cr 1870-BD     1988  Bangladesh           SM Sc. ;CD & Irrigation II                  81.50          8.41
Cr. 1930-BD    1988  Bangladesh           Urban Development '                         38.81         26.98
Cr. 1940-BD    1988  Bangladesh           Rural Roads and Market                      62.30         19 99
Cr. 2016-BC    1989  Bangladesh           Power Distribution 116 Townsl               87.00         34.22
Cr. 2099-BD    1990  Bangladesh           BWDB System Rehab.                          40.82         33 92
Cr. 2118-BD    1990  Bangladesh           General Education                          146.09         60 43
Cr. 2129-BD    1990  Bangladesh           Rural Electrification IlIl                 105.C0         66 5.
Cr. 2146-BD    1990  Bangiadesn           Rishenes l                                 44.60         40.50
Cr. 2232-BD    1991  Bangladesh          Inland 'i'/ater T(arnsoort                   45.00         43 85
Cr. 2233-BD    1991  Bangladesh           Agric. Suoport Se-vices                     35 Co         26 85
Cr. 2246-BD    1991  Bangladesh           National Minor Irrigation                   32 74         34 02
Cr. 2259-BC    1991  Bangladesh           Populat:on & Health IV!                    180.00         88.75
Cr. 2263-BC    1991  Bangladesh           LPG Distribution                            67.20         73.39
Cr. 2340-BD    1992  Bangladesh           Private Sec. lndus:.nal Credit              25.50         24 12
Cr. 2393-BC    1992  Bangladesh           Technical Assistance                        25 00         17 76
Cr. 2397-BC    1992  Bangladesh           Forest Resources Management                 49.60         37 74
Cr. 2469-BD    1993  Bangladesh           Female Secondary School                     68.00         63.09
*  Cr. 2567-BD    1994  Bangladesh           Jute Sector Adj. Crecit                    247.00        209.14
Cr. 2569-BD    1994  Bangladesh           Jamuna Bridge                              200.00        147 94
Cr. 2638-BD    1994  Bangladesh           Second Road Rehab & Maint.                 146.80        126 61
Cr. 25672-BC    1995  Bangladesh          Jute Sector Adj. Credit                      3.20          3.44
Cr. 2720-BD    1995  Bangladesh           Gas Infrastructure                         120.80        1 24.33
Cr. 2735-BD    1995  Bangladesh           Nutrition                                   59.80         59.31
Total                                                     56.86     6253.58 .;b   1389.53 /b
of which has been repaid                                  24 00      163 82
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             32.86     6069.76
Amount sold            0.37
of which repaid        0.37
Total Undisbursed                                                                   1389.53
/a  Approved during or after FY80
/b  The principal amounts of IDA credits are shown in US Dollar equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in the
President's Report. Undisbursed amounts shown in US Collar equivalent are valued at the exchange rate
applicable on the date of this statement. In some cases, therefore, the undisbursed balance indicates
a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit amount expressed in dollars.
*  SAL. SECAL or Program Loan



16
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1 995)
Amount ($millions)
Date         Borrower                      Purpose                         Loan       Equity        Total
1969         Karnaphuli Paper Mills        Timber, Pulp and Paper         3.12        0.37          3.49
1 979        Highspeed Shipbuilding        Industrial Equipment           1 .20       0.36          1.56
1982         Industrial Promotion          Development Financing                      1.05          1 .05
1985         Industrial Development        Capital Markets                3.02        0.15          3.17
1985i86      Bata Shoe Company             General Manufacturing          3.04        0.51          3.55
1992         Dynamic Textile               Textiles                       2. 50 0   _ _             2.50
Total Gross Commitments                                     1 2.98       2.44        15.32
Less Cancellations, Termination Exchanges
Adjustments, Prepayments and Sales
Writeoffs and Sales                                      10.33        0.99         11.32
Total Commitments now held by IFC                            2.55        1.45         4.00
Total Undisbursed (including participants' portion)                                   0.00
K.Pitman/Lilac Thomas
MAkeithpit\rbppmop2. doc
October 28, 1995 01:24 PM



2     S                  '< I ~~~~~~~N  D IA
)- iA  %un>?   's   ' '                                                     ~~~~BANGLADESH
r._  / (   s 1''  @01  iV   )8XRIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
-:az  f  .'  ,),<  .   XDqmor  9   <    \ m <                                         iS   ~~~~~~~~~~~~L-foior of App,.i,.d Subp,.I-t, 
X,  I  r    aso   l 19F4sls ) {d  t   S  *   S? (k4(                                      Bro~~~~~~~~~6h-pm. rrR.9hi &mb..k-en tRE)
< _  <  \  !  \  aw L    ; ,                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primory Roods
N D I ~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                  Y   
/ IA   bodur v; [ oSo ^   0   3  8 ^ , 1    1~~~~~~~~YAANSIGH 
oul , Inrorm>sotd s~~~~~~~~~hon......>   I  E1  r;,,   i' )
onz 66`-   efo Sol-Jf.                                     >       
~~~~~~ASwuu f n erXoHI ^/r '. :
or ony endorsamenp   t  ,    ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
,0r OCaCEPXOn'' f sUcb   l     AlgI .hf  . .  
W           \           NI                                                                                                                 ostDa-}               J  
S  t (    -                                                          B a r         o f         8 e olg o !                        *bionp  li    J       |-')LI
.> BANf>LADLSIl ~ ~ ~        ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        I     D I A 
J,b                                                                                              COMILL\                                               YAMA
INDIA  h   t    y        K                                        D     AD   kO    MD    D    50SOR
>   U   #  { X MYANMAR                                                                                                                            tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAGMT






IBRD 27506
89-00,                   X8910/                                                                      90!10 
-,*' X 7'  Ig                  4>      UJBANGLADESH
f-.'rll-  X \'               r/ kRIVER BANK
'0 t - () \     <>  j tPROTECTION PROJECT
.i \  J 8   X    tSfg)/Simulated Area Flooded by
-25'30'     ' .   \                   j  t|                  W    2 4                 Merger of Brahmaputra and               2530
-   %to, \ >  /            92      )                         Bangali Rivers at Sariakandi
ESTIMATED AREA INUNDATED IN 1988
ESTIMATED ADDITIONAL AREA INUNDATED
C;PA   ,E    ASSUMING MERGER OF BRAHMAPUTRA
RIVER WITH BANGALI RIVER AT SARIAKANDI
PRIMARY ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS
..O \\ t     sRIVERS
SI- ~     ~        "
25'00'                                                                                                                        25'00'
IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
\-                            <  t   \ /   \4 AX  0   O' 9                 K,                        10  2
0-~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
|   0,                                   = \             r (| g  Z   4   l   <           K ~~~~  /  KLOMETERS
\ -24.5                                        -- 30 'X                                                                      24-30'
The b-udore.-clr.dnomhn\,                                       (      *     \\
ond ony ote froin hw  n3 \x 'NzI)                                         f 
,h,s mop do -t imply, on~ tep.rf of                  -,/                           _ 
on the legol stotus -ol ony territo' y,oo\  f  .> 
-h ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                               o
89400'                         '"'               -                                     \90-                                     3
11j6j1995 .w'\icig3 )RyPF









i        !                       ,
I.,    r                         1-
, 1 _
C.,
-
rr1
.1
r.
,..i



