Environmental                     I'
Assessment/Analysis
Reports                     ___
Report E 0001
Bangladesh -
River Bank Protection
Proj ect
EA Category B
River Training Studies of the
Brahmaputra River
July 1992
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Bangladesh Water Development Board
River Training Stulies of the
Brahmaputra River
I
River Bank Protection Project
Brahmaputra Right Bank Priority Works
Environmental Impact Assessment
July 1992
Sir William Haicrow & Partners Lid has prepared this report in accordance
with the instructions of the Bangladesh Water Development Board for their
sole and specific use. Any other persons who use any information
contained herein do so at their own risk.
Sir William Halcrow & Partners Ltd.
in association with
Danish Hydraulic Insfitute
Enaineerina & Plannina Consultants Ltd.



Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Bangladesh Water Development Board
River Training Studies of the
Brahmaputra River
River Bank Protection Project
Brahmaputra Right Bank Priority Works
Environmental Impact Assessment
July 1992
Sir William Halcrow & Partners Ltd has prepared this report in accortlance
with the instructions of the Bangladesh Water Development Board for their
sole and specific use. Any other persons who use any information
contained herein do so at their own risk.
Sir William Halcrow & Partners Ltd.
in awsociation with
Danish Hydraulic Institute
Engineering & Planning Consultants Ltd.
Design Innovations Group



River Training Studies of the Brahmaputra River
Sir William Halcrow & Partners Ltd                    Prtecllic
en assocaijon witn hHOu ag. alolC D
Roel 13.ansm.
Danimu Hyrauic istitute                               0oaka-12tl. eanglad,sh
Engneering and Plannrng Consullants ULd              Telephone 608516
Design innovahsons Group
malcrow OlliLe
Maus" 7 j.Roac 17, 8'2ck E
Mr Liaquat Hossain                                    en*n.. Olika.1213. Bangladesh
Telephoane 60673?. 600850. 884629
Chief Engineer. Planning                              Tegle 642578 HALOD Si
Bangladesh Water Development Board                    Tee.  . * 880-2 883663
WAPDA Building
Dhaxa
29 July 1992               Ourrdl AP/BD/BRT/611/997   Youfrf
Dear Mr Hossain,
River Bank Protection Project
Brahnaputra Right Bank Priority Works
Environmental Impact Assesent
Further to paragraph 15 of the rDA Appraisal Mission's draft Aide-Hemoire, I an
pleased to enclose three copies of the Environmental Impact Assessment for the
Priority Works. As noted in Section 1.4.1, the EIA adheres as closely as possible
to the concepts of the FAP Guidelines.
The EIA contains an Executive Summary which includes an Action Plan for
monitoring and mitigating impacts.
I trust that the EIA will meet with your approval.
Yours sincerely.
N R West
Team Leader
cc    Mr S A M Rafiquzzaman, Director Planning (General), BWDB, Dhaka
Mr S A Rana, Water Resource Adviser, World Bank, Dhaka (2 copies)
Mr M H Siddiqi, Chief Engineer, FPCO, Green Road, Dhaka
Mr v R Baghirathan, Regional Director, Halcrow, Dhaka
Mr A P G Russell, Chief Engineer Irrigation, Burderop Park, UK
Mr 0 J Jensen, Resident Manager, DHI



GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBUC OF BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
RIVER TRAINING STUDIES OF THE BRAHMAPURA RIVER
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
BRAHMAPUTRA RIGHT BANK PRIORITY WORKS
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
CONTENTS
Page
ES    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                    ES.1
1.    INTRODUCTION                                                         1.1
1.1   Introduction                                                  1.1
1.2    Background to the Project                                    1.2
1.2.1  The Bramhmaputra River                                       1.2
1.2.2  The Flood Action Plan                                        1.4
1.3    Rationale for the Project                                    1.4
1.3.1  Potential Consequences of Present River Erosion Regime       1.4
1.3.2  Breakthrough to the Bangali River                            1.5
1.3.3  Security of Sirajganj and Fulcharighat                       1.5
1.3.4  Alternative Solutions                                        1.6
1.4    Assessment Methodology                                       1.7
1.4.1  FAP Environmental Guidelines                                 1.7
1.4.2  Data Collection and Analysis                                 1.7
1.4.3  Assessment and Evaluation                                    1.8
1.5    Format of the Report                                         1.9
2.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                 2.1
2.1    Project Location and Scale                                   2.1
2.1.1  Project Area and Scope                                       2.1
2.12   Project Concept                                              22
2.1.3  Project Scale                                                22
2.2    Project Preparation                                          2.3
2.2.1   Background                                                  2.3
2.2.2  Problem Identification                                       2.4
2.2.3  Problem Quantification                                       2.7
2.2.4   Morphological Predicton                                     2.9
225   Intervention Options                                          2.10
226   Selected Priority Works                                       2.11
2.2.7  Brief OuUine of Master Plan                                  2.16
3.     DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT                                      3.1
3.1    Introduction                                                 3.1
3.2    The Physical Environment                                     3.1
3.3    The Brahmaputra River                                        3.3
3.3.1  Brief History of the River                                   3.3



3.3.2   River Sediment Transporn                                     3.4
3.3.3  Chars                                                        3.5
3.3.4  Impact of the River on the Environment                       3.6
3.4    The Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE)                       3.6
3.4.1   General                                                     3.6
3.4.2  Priority Locations                                           3.7
3.5    The Human Environment                                        3.10
3.5.1   General                                                     3.10
3.5.2  Social Impact of River Erosion and Flood                     3.10
3.5.3  Reaction to the BRE                                          3.10
3.6    Agriculture                                                  3.13
3.6.1   The Rice Crops                                              3.13
3.6.2  Effects of Breaches in BRE on Rice Crop                      3.13
3.6.3   Uvestock                                                    3.14
3.7    Fisheries                                                    3.15
3.8    Water Resources                                              3.17
4.     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT: PRIORITY WORKS                     4.1
4.1   Introduction                                                  4.1
4.1.1  Scale of Works                                               4.1
4.1.2  Evaluation of Impacts                                        4.1
4.2   Irmipact Assessment: Common Issues                            4.1
4.2.1   Brick Making                                                4.2
4.2.2   Navigation                                                  4.4
4.2.3   Dredging and Hydraulic Fill                                 4.5
4.2.4   Water, Sanitabon and Pubiic Health                          4.7
4.2.5   Wildlife                                                    4.8
4.3    Off Project Impacts                                          4.8
4.4    Environmental Impacts: Siraiganj                             4.8
4.4.1   Pre-Construction Phase                                      4.8
4.4.2   Construction Phase                                          4.11
4.4.3  Post-Construction Phase and Long-Term Impacts                4.12
4.5    Environmental Impacts: Shariakandi/Mathurapara               4.13
Bank Protection Works
4.5.1  Pre-Construction Phase                                       4.13
4.5.2  Construction Phase                                           4.16
4.5.3  Post-construction Phase and Long-Term Impacts                4.18
5.     ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ACTION PLAN                             5.1
5.1   Introduction                                                  5.1
5.2    Liaison                                                      5.1
5.3    Role of NGOOs                                                 5.2
5.4    Consultation                                                  5.2
5.5    Monitoring                                                    5.3
5.6    Mitigation Control                                            5.4
6      ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION METHODOLOGY                                6.1
6.1    Introduction                                                  6.1
6.2    Discussion: Project Impact Assessment                         6.1
6.3    Assessment/Evaluation System                                  6.2
ii



6.3.1  Basis of System                                            62
6.32   Scales                                                     6.3
6.3.3  Criteria Used                                              6.3
6.3.4  Ranges                                                     6.4
6.4    Environmental Components                                   6.5
7.    INFORMATION SOURCES                                                7.1
7.1    References                                                 7.1
TABLES
Table 1.1  Overall Erosion Rates for the Period 195149
Table 1.2  Expected Land Loss and Population Displacement over the Next Five Years
Table 2.1  Summary of Data Collection During River Surveys
Table 3.1  Annual Rainfal at Selected Stations of Banglaoesh
Table 3.2 Monthly Rainfall in mm during 1989
Table 3.3 Critical Stages of Growth by Crop
Table 3.4 Brahmaputra (Jam una) River Annual Fish Spawn Catch
Table 3.5 Results of Different Parameters of 6 Water Samples
Table 3.6 Results of Different Parameters of 5 River Water Samples
Table 4.1  Major Material Resources Requirements-Priority Works
Table 6.1 Evaluation of Environmental Changes
Table 62  Matrix of Environmental Clhange
Table 6.3 Matrix ot Mitigafions Measures
FIGURES
Figure 2.1 Location Plan for BRE and 1990 Bank Une
Figure 2.2 Future Works at Fulchari
Figure 2.3 Future Works at Kazipur
Figure 2.4 Priority and Future Works at Sariakandi and Mathurapara
Figure 2.5 Priority and Future Works at Sirajganj
Figure 2.6 Future Works at Betil
Figure 2.7 Number of Retirement along BRE
Figure 3.1 Teesta, Jamuna and Karatoya-Bangai Flood Plains
Figure 3.2 Bank Une Movement Between 1951-57 and 1989
Figure 3.3 Typical River Cross-Section showing Upper and Lower Char top Levels
Figure 3.4 Annual Fish Catches in the Jamuna 1983 to 1989
Figure 3.5 Fish Spawn Catches. Jamuna FRight Bank. 1986 to 1989
Figure 3.6 Areas Affected by Lowering of Seasonal Water Table
Figure 4.1 Silt Plume Estimate
...



BRAHMAPUTRA RIVER TRAINING STUDY
PRIORITY WORKS FOR IMPLEMENTATION UNDER
RiVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Itroduction
The Brahmaputra is one of the largest braided rivers in the world. Its multiple channels are
forever shifting and while some of its the mid-river islands chars havt. a certain permanency.
others are formed and destroyed over a matter of a few years; the smaller sandbars, some
3 km long, can migrate downiver at more than 30 mnday, changing shape as they go.
Cyclical bank erosion and accretion is a feature of any braided river but in the case of the
Brahmaputra there is strong evidence that the right bank has been experiencing a
substantial net erosion over the past 30 years. which appears to be associated with a
tendency for the river to increase its overall width (although probably not its main channel
width), through a process of island growth. Morphological evidence shows that the right
bank of the river is. as a whole. currently further west than it has previously been in recent
geological times. The indications are that this westward trend of the right bank is continuing,
although there is insufficient data to allow this to be quantified at present.
Following the favourable outcome of studies carried out in the 1950's. a flood embankment
was constructed parallel to the right bank during the late 1960's and early 1970's stretching
from the Teesta down to the Hurasagar confluence. This Brahmaputra Right Embankment
(BRE) was set back between 1.6 and 2.4 km from the river bank at the time.
Problem Identification
By the first years of the 1980s bank erosion was already threatening certain sections of the
BRE and porions had to be reconstructed further back from the river bank. Erosion
continues and current'y' more than 15 km of the BRE is within 300 m of the river bank and
almost 70 km is within 500 m and thus vulnerable to breaching as a result of the rapid bank
retreat (often more than 600 m/y) that is associated with the more aggressive bends.
In addition to this destruction of good agricultural land, which reappears as much poorer
sandy soiled and unstable chariand, towns and villages are destroyed and many thousands
are made homeless and destitute. Two particular problems stand out from this as being
of immediate concem: the town of Sirajganj. population greater than 100.000. is being
directly threatened by the river and there is serious concem about the consequences of a
breakthrough of the Brahmaputra into the Bangali river: at present the two rivers are only
1.000 m apart at two locations and with bank erosion proceeding at around 300 m/y in this
vicinity, a breakthrough appears imminenL
measured from December 1990 aerial photographv
ES.1



Although the priority works are small when seen in the context of the nver as a whole, they
will play an important part in the longer term goal of full stabilisation of the bankline. It
happens that both locations are closely associated with strategic "nodal" points of the nver
plantorm and it is expected that bank protection carried out in these reaches will also make
a contribution to river bank stabilisation at the larger scale.
The Environmental Assessment
This report follows as far as possible the FPCO guidelines fow EIA that were drawn up for
the Regional Studies and are therefore not in some respects directly applicable to this form
of study. Where it has been necessary to diverge in a matter of detail, every effon has
been made to comply with the spirit of the guidelines.
The finding of this report is that there will be no significant sustained negative environmental
impact expressed in physical, ecological, human or economic terms. Potential longer term
impacts, such as the excessive use of timber for brick-making, can be addressed by
ensuring strict compliance with the conditions specifically written into the ICB contract for
this purpose. Temporary impacts during construction have been clearly identified and
quantified and provision made for appropriate measures to minimise these short-term and
reversible adverse effects. The importance of continuous monitoring before, during and
post-construction has been highlighted and specific recommendations have been made in
this respecL
The positive impacts will be far-reaching and benefit a far larger group than those directly
benefitting from the local bank stabilisation. In the Sariakandi area, the prevention of the
breaching of the BRE and the serious likelihood of a breakthrough into the Bangali river will
be to the advantage of farmers on both banks of the Bangali-Ichamati river system as far
south as Siraiganj. Reduction in the rate of bank erosion alone will. over a period of 10
years, prevent further loss of land and ivelihood for some 50,000 people in the rural areas
and the displacement of the majority of the population of Siraigani.
The principle features of the Environmental Monitoring and Action Plan are as follows:
ES.3



ACTION PLAN FOR MONITORING AND MITIGATING IMPACTS
Land Acquisition for Permanent Works
(a)    Bank Protection
o Consultation with affected persons and thana chairrnen at least
one year prior to commencement of construction (BWDB/DC)
o   Fixing of cross-bar alignments to minimise fragmentation of
holdings. and avoid interterence with homesteads etc
(BWDB/BRTSIRBPP)
o   Timely completion ce land acquisition procedures (BWDB)
o   Establish tormal liaison and regular meetings between thana
chairmnen, BWDB Executive Engineer and Contractor, chaired by
the Resident Engineer (RBPP)
o   Construction Programme to be sensitive to cropping programme.
(b)    BRE Realignment
o   Consuttation with affected persons and thana chairmen at least
one year prior to commencement of construction
(BWDB1DC/RBPP)
o    Fixng of alignments to minimise fragmentation of holdings. and
avoid interference with homesteads etc (BWDBIRBPP)
o   Timely completion of land acquisition procedures (BWDP'
o   Establish lormal liaison and regular meetings between thana
chairmen, RBPP BRE Planning Unit and local contractors, chaired
by Executive Engineer (BWDB/RBPP)
o Construction Programme to be sensitfive to cropping programme.
O   Occupation of refuge berm on landward side of BRE to be
restricted to those displaced by bank erosion (BWDBIDC).
O   One-off compensation to be paid to tenants and landowners on
river-side of new BRE (WBIBWDBIDC).
2.      Temporary Resettement of Squaters (Siraigani)
o   Preliminary identification of persons affected (BRTSIRBPP)
o    Make provision in CMI works contract BOO and Specification for
temporary resettlement (BRTS/BWDB)
o   Consultation with affected persons and town authorities at least
one year prior to commencement of construction
(BWDB/DC4RBPP)
o    Establish detailed procedures in accordance with World Bank
Directive on Involuntary Resettement (WBIRBPP)
o   Final identification of persons affected prior to Award of civil works
contract (BWDB/DC)
o   Establish formal liaison and regular meetings between town
authorities. squatters' representative. BWDB Executive Engineer
and Contractor, chaired by the Resident Engineer (RBPP)
o   Maintain formal liaison with the DC (RBPP)
ES.4



6.     Dredging and Hydraulic Fill
o     Confirmation that river bed and bank material contains no
significant amnount of toxic materials (BRTS)
a     Provisions written into tne ICB Contract Conditions and
Specification (see list of clauses) makiiig the Contractor
responsible for ensuring that his activities do not unreasonably
interfere with navigation and fisheries (BRTSIBWDB).
O     Locations of all sources of dredged material either shown on
Drawings or subject to approval of the Engineer (BRTS1RBPP-RE)
c     'Establish  formal liaison  and  regular meetings between
BIWTA/BR/DOF and representatives of country boat operators
and fishermen. BWDB. Executive Engineer and Contractor.
chaired by the Resident Engineer (RBPP)
o     Contractor to fumish detailed method statement for approval of
the Engineer prior to commencement of any work (RBPP-RE)
o     Compliance with provisions and method statement to be
monitored and enforced by the Resident Engineer (RBPP-RE)
o     Sem pies to be taken during hydraulic fill operations and anatysed
for toxic content (RBi,P-RE)
o     Sediment concentrations to be monitored downstream of dredging
operations (Contractor/RBPP-RE)
o     Procedure to be established for recording and evaluating
complaints and feedback to the Resi1ent Engineer (BWDB)
o     Contractor required to take all practicable measures to minimise
turbidity arising from dredging (see list of Clauses)
(BRTS/BWDB).
9     Contractor required to observe:
Environmental Pollution Act
Marine Pollution Ordinance
Inland Shipping Ordinance
and, when enacted, the Inland Waterways IlIl project requirement
for rivor bed sample testing prior to dredging (see list of Clauses)
(BRTS/BWDB)
7.     UtWlsalon of Borow PiTS
o     Provisions written into the ICB Contract Conditions and
Specification (see list of clauses) making the Contractor
responsible for ensuring that borrow pits do not constitute a
health hazard during the construction period and are left on
completion in a suitable condition for subsequent use by larmers
(BRTS/BWDB).
O     Design of works to include suitable vegetation to be planted to
stabilise the borrow pits (BRTS/BWDB)
o     Consulation with landowners and tenants conceming the location
of borrow areas (BWDB/RBPP)
o     Contractor to fumish detailed method statement for approval of
the Engineer prior to commencement of any work (RBPP-RE)
o     Compliance with provisions and method statement to be
monitored and enforced by the Resident Engineer (RBPP-RE)
ES.6



UST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN ACTION PLAN
BIWTA     Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BOO       Bill ot Quantities
BR        Bangladesh Railway
BRE       Branmaputra Right Embankment
BRTS      Branmaputra River Training Studies (FAP-1)
BWDB      Bangladesh Water Development Board
CCT       Computer Compatible Tapes
DC        Deputy Commissioner
DOF       Department of Fisheries
FAP        Flood Action Plan
FPCO      Flood Plan Co-ordination Organisatfon
ICB       Intemational Competitive Bidding
MMU       Mointoring and Maintenance Unit
RBPP      River Bank Protetuion Project
RE         Resident Engineer
TA        Technical Assistance
WB         World Bank
ES-8



UST OF CLAUSES PERTAINING TO MITGATION OF IMPACTS
General Conditions of Contract
Clause No.           Description
8.2                  Site Operations and Methods of Construction
13.1                 Work to be in Accordance with Contract
19.1                 Safety, Security ana Protection of the Environment
26.1                 Compliance with Statutes. Regulations
29.1                 Interference with Traffic and Adjoining Properties
30.1                 Avoidance of Damage to Roads
30.2                 Transport of Contractor's Equipment or Temporary Works
30.3                 Transport of Materials or Plant
30.4                 Waterbome Traffic
32.1                 Contractor to Keep Site Clear
33.1                 Clearance of Site on Completion
45.1                 Restriction on Working Hours
2.         Conditions of Particular Application
Clause No.           Description
34                   Labour
34.11                Health and Safety
34.12                Measures against Insect and Pest Nuisance
34.13                Epidemics
45.1                 Restriction on Working Hours
ES-9



3.        Specification
Clause No.          Description
Part 1              Description of Works
102                 Scope of Contract (includes provision for squatter resettlement in
Contract No. 2. Sirajganj)
104                 Working Areas (Contractor responsible for temporary acquisition of
additional land)
Part 2              Preliminary and General
214                 Sanitary Conveniences
216                 Drains. Streams. Watercourses. etc.
220                 Access (restriction on construction traffic, etc)
223                 Satety of Adjacent Structures or Works
224                 Interference with Existing Works
225                 Abatement of Nuisance
231                 Contractor's Accommodation (Contractor to fumish details for
Engineers approval)
241                 Temporary Works (Contractor to fumish details for Engineer's
approval)
244                 Notice to Mariners
245                 Navigation
248                 Uaison with Public Authorities
Part 3              Earthworks
318                 Borrow Pits
Part 4              Dredging and Reclamation
403                 Borrow Area (Contract no.2 - other dredging areas shown on the
Drawings)
408                 Discharge into the River
ES-10



409                  Dredging Method Statement
412                  Compliance with Regulalions
417                  Filling in Reclamation Area (including submission of method
statement)
Part 5               Concrete
504                  Aggregates - General
504(5)               - source to be approved by the Engineer
505                  Coarse Aggregate
505(5)               - requirement to use only coal-fired kilns for bricks
Part 6               Revetment Works
617                  Rock Armour (altemative armouring to c.c. blocks)
617(2)&(5)           - quarry rock to be supplied only from sources approved by the
Engineer
617(8)               - Contractor to submit proposals for rock handling and stockpiling
618                  Brick Filter Layer (bricks to conform to Sub-Clause 505(5)).
619                  Revetment Construction Method Statement
Part 7               Roads (Contract No. 2 only)
703                  Aggregate Sources for Bitumen Macadam (subject to the Engineer's
approval)
Part 8               Piling (Contract no. 2 only)
801                  Piling Plant and Methods
801 (1)              - Contractor to submit details for the Engineers approval
806                  Disturbance and Noise
ES-11



BRAMMAPUTRA RIVER TRAINING STUDIES
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
1.1       Introduction
This report presents the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the works arising
trom the River Training Studies of the Bramhaputra River (BRTS). part of the Flood
Action Plan (FAP). in respect of the immediate concems of ensunng the security
of certain parts of the Bramnaputra River Embankment (BRE) and major
concentrations of infrastructural investment along the right bank of the river. The
structural works associated with the first phase of this programme of bank
stabilisation are known as the Priority Works. The EIA has been undertaken to
ascertain what are the likely, significant environmental changes as a result of the
implementation of the Priority Works and. if these changes are negative. what
mifigating measures should be taken to lessen their impact both during construction
and thereafter. These package of measures is sometimes referred to as an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
There is ample and readily visible evidence that during the 25 years of its existence
the BRE has provided effective relief from the uncontrolled and sustained inundation
originating trom the high flood flows in the Brahmaputra River and that tnis has
assisted in the very substantial increase in agricultural production and general
development in the protected areas.
This level of security against damaging floods is now underthreat ftrom the continuing
erosion of the right bank of the river (see Table 1 .1). which is increasingly causing
breaches of the BRE. In addition to this problem there is the more direct hardship
that arises from the massive erosion of fertile farmland along the bankline and the
displacement of the farmers. who are forced to take refuge on the remaining flood
embankment as the only safe haven available. Contrary to the belief held by some.
there is no discernible link outween the constructior of the BRE flood embankment
and this rapid bank erosion. which has been a feature of the river since its avulsion
some 200 years ago.
These breaches and the ensuing sudden floods have become more frequent over
recent years as progressively greater ieng!hs of the BRE become within range of the
more aggressive river bends. The consequent displacement of families from their
homes and land has added to the alreadV daunting problems of homelessness.
resettlement and unemployment. As an example of the order of magnitude of the
problems. tihe potential damage in the short term is given in Table 1.2. for six
locations along the BRE that have been expenencing severe bank erosion during the
past four or five vears. Because of ths cyclical narure of erosion. as the threat to
these sites redluces so attack will intensify at others. resulting in similar levels of
damage.
1.1



section that occur as the highly mobile smaller chars (islands) migrate down the river
The development of these bends is therefore very hard to predict and the current
state of knowledge permits only approximate forecasts of the location and severity
of erosion.
The flows in the river during the dry season range from 3.500 m'ls to 6.500 m"Js In
April the melting snows in the Himalayas and Tibetan plateau cause the flow to
increase rapidly and this is then reinforced by the monsoon rainfall falling in Assam.
resulting in peak flows that may exceed 100.000 m3/s (100 year return period) in
July.
The sediment transport capacity of the river is high. the majority of it occurring during
the penod while the river remains within its Oanks. The annual sediment discharge
of the river is of the order of 500 million cubic metres, some 90 percent of which is
in the form of washload or suspended sand. At high discharges the flow is very
turbulent, causing massive boils' to appear on the surface. The mean depth of flow
during the wet season is only around 7 m Out concentrations of flow. particularly
where two channels merge downstream of a char, can result in scour depths of more
than 30 m. These scour holes can develop very rapidly and may then travel
downstream as the river planform alters.
There is strong circumstantial evidence that the river is moving westwards as a
wthole, but insufficient data to quantify this trend beyond saying that it may be
of the order of .10 to 50 rnyear over a timescale of centuries. Definite evidence
that in the last 30 years the mean rate of right bank retreat has been as high as
100 m/year: and that the river is generally getting wider. The rate of widening may
be expected to slow down over the next 20 to 30 years but cou!d then be replaced
by increased bodily drift. The macro-geotechnical pmcesses that have resulted in
the iver moving to its present course remain active. and turther significant
planform movement must be seen as probable rather than possible unless there is
some form of interventlon.
The only place on the right bank that net accretion has occurred during the last 30
years is south of Sirajganj although that reach has seen erosion on both banks in
recent years. It is possible that the notable relative stability of the river planforn
south of Sirajganj since the early 1960s could be linked to the sustained efforts that
have been made to harden the bank in the vicnity of the town during this period. nf
this incipient hard point were to fail the there could be very rapid and large scale
adjustment of the planform between Siraiganj and Belkuchi.
Following the favow.able outcome of a feasibility study, the 220 km long earth
embankment, known asthe Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). was constructed
in the late 1960s - early 1970's on the westem bank of the Jamuna River to
protect the flood plain lands against the sustained deep flooding caused oy the
passage of the annual flood wave down the Brahmaputra river. The BRE performed
very satistactorily during the first 15 years or so. and the parts that remain intact are
generally in fair to good condition. However river erosion is increasingly causing
serious problems.
The major cause of failure of the BRE is undercutting due to rapid bank erosion or.
less frequently, direct erosion by hign flow velocities as the main river channel
coming within a few tens of metres of the embankment. Every year the BRE has to
be retired landward in order to maintain its continuity. A total length of about 1 40 km
1.3



substantially interior and will have no protection from inundation. and consequently
its productivity will be much lower. The newly emerged land is -in any case not
available for use by those who have been displaced since i is legally the property
of whoever held title to that area before the river earlier occupied it. in practice the
situation is less well defined with the larger landowners welding much influence.
Breaching of the GRE will also continue to occur even if the nominal 'five year set
back' rule is correctly applied and planned retirement of the embankment is
implemented. It would be socially unacceptable. an economically unjustifiable. to sel
the embankment far enough back to reduce to a minimal value the risk of the
occasional very aggressive bend, that can erode the bank at more than 800 m per
year, from causing a breach.
Analysis of significantly scouring bends which have occurred over the last 20 years
suggests that on average six right bank concave significant bends can be expected
to be discemible each year of which about half will be in their active period. In the
absence of an effective system tor identifying potentially aggressive bends and
instituting pre-emptive retirement of the embankment, an average of one or two
breaches a year would thus not be exceptional.
The damage resulting from a breach of the BRE will vary with location and the water
levels in the Brahmaputra at the time. Estimates for immediate agricultural damage
from a single breach range trom about Tk 10 million in the vicinity of tihe breach,
though the average is nearer Tkc 30 - 60 million over the affected area. In addition the
direct damage to roads and other infrastructure and the interruption to land
communication is substantial
1.32      Breakthrough to the Bangpli River
The Bangali river is now within the range of one of the more aggressive bends
on the Bramhaputra river that have occurred during the past 15 years. If no
preventative acfion is taken it would appear highly probable that the Brahmaputra
river will break through into the Bangali river within a matter of a few years, with
the added risk tat in the medium to longer term the Brahmaputra might favour this
channel and eventually occupy it as a major anabranch.
Once the breakthrough had occurred it would be necessary to realign the
Bangali channel itself weStwards in order to maintain the continuity of the BRE while
ensuring that drainage of the area to the north was not severely impeded. It
has been estimated that such a realignment could cost of the order of Tk 2.000
million in construction costs alone, and require the acquisition of 850 ha of prime
agricultural land, together with the displacement of a large number of farming
households. During the construction period the BRE would be substantiafly
ineffectve over this reach and downstream areas would suffer accordingly. The
negative social and consequential economic impacts of such a breakthrough would
be massive.
1.3.3     Security of Sirajganj and Fudcharighat
The important district cen:re of Sirajganj with its population of about 125.000 is under
constant threat of erosioc; from the river. It is the only significant river port on the
Brahmaputra and it is the railhead for the southem ferry aossing. Dunng the past
four years the erosive att.ick has switched from a deep embayment north of the
1.5



satistactorily high level of security to those on the landwara side of the embankment
than currently enjoyed. Simply. more people and land benefit for more of tne time.
This form of strategic retirement of the BRE could be seen as a pragmatic
compromise measure tor much of its length but it does not address the problems of:
the potential breakthrough into the Bangali River,
the security of Sirajgani and the Fulchari railway ferry   terminal.
-         The future security of the Jamuna Bridge.
Selective and carefully planned bank stabilisation (Option c) is the only solution that
will satisty all the objectives. The concept of bank stabilisation is not new or untried.
Sirajganj is an example of the largely successful application of the principle over a
period of at least 20 years. although the method may be seen in retrospect to be
have less than cost-effective.
The distinction needs to be made between intervention aimed at confining the river
to one or more defined channels and hardening the bank in order to prevent the river
from continuing to widen and occupy more land. Whereas the former is a very active
form of intervention, in which the river is constrained to follow a path dictated by
man. and one that could result in unforseen consequences, the latter is more passive
in principle and may be seen as artificially providing more resistant banks, as could
occur in nature as the migrating river came into contact with more resistant
formations (for example the Barind Tract).
The principal practical limitation is the availability of finance and the decision to
allocate resources to this objective.
1.4       Assessment methodology
1.4.1     FAP Environmental Guidelines
In the course of this project. FAP-1 6 has produced Environmental Guidelines and an
EIA Manual to be followed by the FAP regional studies. These guidelines are
designed for schemes involving active intervention measures aimed at flood control
and drainage, such as the construction of new flood embankments and polders. and
as such are not directly applicable to the Brahmaputra situation. Nevertheless, the
latest issues of the Guidelines and Manual have been used as the formwork for
preparing this report the concepts behind these documents have been adhered to
as closely as possible.
1.42      Data collection and analysis
The project area for the Master Plan covers the right bank of the Bramhaputra
(Jamuna) River from its confluence with the Teesta River to the Hurasagar
confluence.
Extensive field work has been undertaken tq the BRTS team over a penod of two
years and sophisticated numerical modelling techniques have been used in support
1.7



Within these components. and from the data obtained by tne surveys and field visits.
together from consultations with the interested authonties in Bangladesh. and the
donor agencies, it was possible to identify Important issues that could be examined
in detail against activities in the project cycle. The separation oa the important/less
important issues was done by an system of assessment/evaluation, which allowed
qualitative assessments be recorded and evaluated with greater objectivity and
reproducibility than simple subjective judgments of the consultant team. This
assessment and evaluation system is discussed in Section 6.
1.5       Format of the report
The EIA has followed, within the project constraints, the form of assessment
developed for the Flood Action Plan, and contained in the Guidelines for EIA
approved by the Flood Plan Coordinating Organization (FPCO). The report is laid out
in a sequential form: discussing the project and the existing environmental situation;
considering the possible impacts and their consequences. evaluating any alternative
strategies for project execution (if relevant); identifying possible mitigating measures:
providing a qualitative cost/benefit analysis of the options; and providing notes on
other matters pertinent to the environmental aspects of the project and the
post-project situation. In Chapter 5 the Environmental Monitoring and Action Plan.
sometimes referred to as an environmental management plan, is set out.
All data is not yet available to provide a complete environmental assessment
covering the full scope of the master plan, and so the report has been divided into
two parts:
"Part 1: The Priority Works5
containing chapters dealing with the project and the present environmental situation
of the project as a whole, as well as the impact assessment and conclusions for the
Priority Works Ro allow the ElAto become part of the immediate process for funding
and execution of these works).
iPart 2: The Master Plan5
covering the addifional impact assessments relting to the Master Plan and which will
form part of the BRTS Final Report.
1.9



2           PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1         Project location and scale
2.1.1       Project Area and Scope
The recurrent breaching of the Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) as a direct
consequence of progressive erosion of the right bank or the river and the
govemment's desire to urgently address this serious problem was the principle
reason for the formulation of the project. It is for this reason that the scope of the
BRTS is confined to the right bank of the Brahmaputra River lying between the
Teesta and Hurasagar confluences (see Figure 21). This rather narrow focus is
unsatisfactory when analysing the rivers behaviour and in pracbice for much of the
study work it has been necessary to consider the fiver as a whole. Any specific
intervention measures on the left bank or relating directly relation to the
stabilisation of the numerous chars are however outside the scope of this study.
The westward limit of the study is strictly the present alignment of the BRE but for
quantifying the benefits due to the flood embankment and evaluating any negatie
impacts it has been necessary to extend certain aspects of the study to cover
parts of the right bank flood plain. In general however, the identification and
quantification of problems to the west of the BRE and the preparation of means
of addressing tnese problems. falls within the scope of the North-West Regional
Study (FAP-2). with which close liaison has been maintained throughout.
The river is usually known as the Jamuna over most of this length and this name
will be used when describing the project area and scheme preparation.
The study has tw distinct components. The master plan, described in the
following Section, will set out a strategy whose long term objective is the stabilising
the full length of the right bank of the river within the study limits. The timescale
for such a massive undertaking is measured in decades if not centuries. The
second component is the preparation of a scheme for implementation. consisting
of bank stabilisation work at pority locations where the consequences of bank
erosion are particularly severe and early action is called for in advance of
completion of the master plan. ft is intended that the timescale for the
implementation of these priority works should be less than five years from
identificaticn.
In accordance with the study TOR six priority locations were selected using a
ranking system designed for this purpose. From this short-list of six. three sites
stood out dearly from the others in lerms of both economic and sociological
considerations and it is these three, two of which are closely related. that have
been identified by the IDA (World Bank) as being suitable subjects for financing
under the River Bank Protection Project This report covers all six priority sites but
the greater emphasis is on the three that are scheduled for treatment in the near
future: Sirajganj. Mathurapara and Sariakandi. The other three locations being
Fulcharighat. Kazipur and Betil.
The town of Siraiganj is situated 70 km upstream of the Ganges confluence and
7 km upstream of the site for the proposed Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge (JMB).
The scope of the structural measures are shown in Figure 2.5, from which it can
21



incorporated in the study recommendations are implemented. analysis of this data
in conjunction with direct field measurements will be continuously carried out to
provide a progressively better understanding of the relationship between
intervention and the morphological and ecological consequences
The short-term bank stabilisation works. that is the Priority Works, are the main
focus of this report since it is intended that these be implemented as early as
organisational constraints permit.
These short-term works are large in human terms but when placed within the
perspective of the Jamuna River they zan be seen to be relatively minor. The
length of hardened bank will be some 3 km out of a total of 220 km in the study
area alone. The affected length may amount to about 17 km or less than 8
percent.
Similarly although the quantities of dredging and reclamation may at 2 to 3 Mcm
appear large when taken out of context. they represent only a small fraction of the
quantity of similar material eroded from the right bank and transported by the river
every year (around 150 Mcm) or the total sediment transported by the river
annually (around 500 Mcm).
2.2         Project Preparaion
2..1         Background
The first systematic morphological study of the Jamuna River was undertaken by
J M Coleman between June 1967 and March 1968 culminating in his paper
wBrahmaputra River Channel Processes and Sedimentation' published in 1969 '.
He was the first to identify. from interpretation of aerial photography, that the
course of the river had progressively moved westward during the Recent
geological period until the major avulsion that took place around the end of the
19th century. He tentatively concluded that westward migration was continuing.
In addition to this important piece of deductive work he observed and documented
many of the sediment transport processes that are distinctive features of the rivees
braided formn Although Coleman's interpretation of his observations provides
much valuable material on the behaviour of the river, he was not concemed with
structural intervention in any form and therefore did not focus on many those
aspects that are of primary relevance when considering bank stabilisation.
The next set of studies were related to the feasibility of constructing a bridge
across the Jamuna. The first field work consisted of a programme of sub-soil
investigations and soil testing completed by Soiltech, with financing from JICA. in
1975. These were followed by further studies carried out during the period 1986
to 1989 by Rendell Palmer Tritton (RPT) in association with NEDECO and
Bangladesh Consultants Ltd. and included a substantial morphological study based
on the analysis of river surveys data. the interpretation of maps and satellite
imagery, and physical and mathematical modelling.  The studies added
considerably to the information available on the behaviour of the river but naturally
tocussed on the particular issues that were relevant to the construction of a bridge
at the preferred site 7 km south of Sirajgani.
' Sedimentary Geology, Vol 3, August 1969: Elsevier
2.3



-         location. length, frequency of breaches:
-         causes ot breaches
-         relationship, it any. between original embankment
geometry, soils. construction techniques, vegetative
cover.  use.  maintenance  regime,  and  the
probability/frequency of failure.
(c)       To provide the basis for drawing up guidelines tor construction of
embankments that will have the desired life. In particular to identify
possible measures and their technical feasibility, for improved
performance of the BRE in terms of flood protection, including the
practicabi!ity of retirement of the embankment in different reaches.
(d)       To obtain opinions from the communities living on the BRE as to the
efficacy and value of the BRE and the causes of failures.
It has proved difficult to build up a reliable history of breaches. Most people's
recollection becomes hazy prior to the 1988 breaches and official records other
than the bankline sketch maps maintained by the BWDB since about 1980, are not
readily available.
From the Latter it is possible to estimate that the first retirements took place.
possibly in the vicinity of Kazipur, around 1975. only a little over 10 years after the
original construction but that the problem started to become significant in the early
1980's. It is clear however that the problem has been becoming more serious
over the past 5 years as progressively more of the BRE becomes within range of
aggressive bend erosion. The number of times that ditferent lengths of the BRE
have been reconstructed is illustrated in Figure 2.7.
The survey showed ttlat the embankment was generally in fair to good condition
except for short stlatches that had been constructed to a low standard as
emergency measures to repair a breach. Direct undermining as a consequence
of bank erosion was reported as by far the major cause of breaches and only one
substantiated case of piping failure was recorded (i was caused by rat holes and
is attributable to insufficient maintenance). Public cuts occur from time to time but
are confined to the most northern reach. upstream of Fulcharighat. and are
associated with breaches in the Teesta section of the BRE causing flood water to
build up on the landward side of the Jamuna section of the BRE. With this
exception, the general perception of the farmers receiving the protection of the
BRE was found to be positive and favourable. This is consistent with the common
experience that public pressure is always for reconstructing a breached section of
the BRE as close to the river as feasible, so that the largest number of people
benefit Unfortunately this pressure results in a higher risk of future breaches
occurring.
The only options open to reduce the frequency of breaching are therefore either
to construct the embankment sufficiently tar back from the river, which leaves a
large number of farmers unprotected, or to stabilise the bankline.
Towns anC FErenghats
Erosion of the river bank poses not only a threat to the integrity of the BRE but
also results in the destruction of property and infrastructure and the disruption of
25



pnnciple. which is being followed for the Pnority Works. is a relatively mild form of
intervention in morpnological lerms and is unlikely to result in any significant
adverse consequences. The next and far more actively interventionist step of
stabilising the plantorms of the anabranches themselves is considerably more
ambtRious and calls for a higher order of understanding of the rver processes than
is available today it id is to be successful and sustainable.
22.3        Problem quanitification
TheRRTS Proarmmme
The first 18 months of the three year programme was occupied largely with the
identification ot the problems followed by the execution of an extensive programme
of river surveys and other primary data collection and analysis. Physical models
were constructed at the RRI facilities at Faridpur and 1-D and 2-D mathematical
models were set up and calibrated using the data that had been collected for this
purpose. Old maps were obtained and compared with more recent maps and
satellite imagery in order to elicit as much information as possible about the
morphological dynamics of the river, such as bank erosion rates and the life cycle
of anabranch bends. During the subsequent 6 months various analytical
techniques were coordinated in order to quantify the magnitude of the problems
and to assess altemative options for their amelioration.
Simultaneously the data necessary for the design of structural measures for bank
stabilisation were being collected and criteria were drawn up and material
specifications prepared.
The following sections outline the scope of these varied activities.
River survey
Avery extensive programme of river and topographical surveys were carried out.
mainly directly by BRTS team members. This was the first time that river survey
work had been carried out on the Jamuna River during the monsoon period and
a series of logistical and technical problems had to be solved. The outcome was
a comprehensive set of data covering two consecutive monsoon and dry seasons.
The scope of the surveys is indicated in Table 2.1
The data collected. covering bathymetry. directional velocity measurements and
sediment concentrations and gradings, was used for the setting up and calibration
of both physical and mathematical models and, after analysis, provided the basis
for determining design criteria for the Priority Works.
Geotechnical IrnvestigLatiorr,
Data from previous investigations for the Jamuna Bridge were collated and some
further analysis carried out to supplement the information presented in the JMB
feasibility report. Based on this, a limited programme of site investigations was
drawn up by the BRTS ano carried out by the BWDB Groundwater Circle. This
achieved the objective, which was to confirm that the bank matenal was broadly
homogeneous, in terms of relevant properties, over the wnole study reach.
2.7



(C)       2-0 morphological modelling (which includes 2-D hydrodynamic
modelling), to gain insight into and to quantify the morphological
processes that are associated with scour development and bank
erosion and to investigate the viability of elternative means of
influencing channel development.
(d)       1-D sediment transport modelling, as a part of 'he assessment of the
magnitude Of long term channel geometry changes that are
associated with the altemative levels ot nver containment.
The mathematical modelling studies are now substantially complete and the results
have been used in developing the designs tor the Priornty Works.
Geomomholoalcal analvsis
The objectives of the geomorphological studies are firstly to learn as much as
possible about the morphological characteristics of the river trom its historic
behaviourial patterns and then to extrapolate this understanding to provide a basis
for predicting future behaviour.
Sources of information that have been used for this study are:
(a)       old maps dating back to 1820 w.Iich provide a broad qualitative
picture of the changes in the macro planform of the river:
(b)       more recent maps from 1914 onwards which can be used to quantity
banidine movements and island development on a coarse time scale:
(c)       satellite imagery since 1973 which when rectified and digitised
provides an accurate basis for the quantification of planform changes
at a timescale of between 1 and 5 years;
(d)       analysis of historic river cross-section surveyed annually since 1967.
which when digitised provides information on channel geometry
characteristics and trends; data quality however limrit the vaiue of
tese results.
(e)       systematic field observabons of river bank form  and material
characteristics.
(         a large number of bathymetric surveys camed out by the BRTS and
by IWTA.
The most reliable information that has been obtained from this multi-faceted study
concerns the average bank erosion rates, braid width variation and maxamum
channel depths since 1967. Less reliable but nonetheless valuabie has been the
data derived from analysis of bend histories.
2.2s4       Morphological Prediction
Work is still an progress on the analysis of morphological data with the objective
of deriving relationships and quantifying trends that can be used as the means of
2.9



bank of the river. II has been shown nal the higfl cost of bank stabilisation can
be justified, in conventional economic terms. in certain situations where the
consequences of inaction will be particularly pronounced. These locations are
tonuitously located al morphologically important sections of the river ana it is
anticipated that stabilisation of Ihe bankiine in these vicinities will represent an
important contribution to stabilisation of the river at the regional scale.
At the local level however, the proposed priority stabilisation works will have only
a limited zone of influence and outside this the pattern of cyclical bank erosion will
continue unchanged until such time as further investment funds become available
for an extension of the bank stabilisation measures. Although the stabilisation of
much of the river bank is therefore not financialy feasible in the shon term. tnr're
is a need to reduce the frequency of breaches in the BRE that are a direct
consequence of the bank erosion. It ts being proposed that this is addressed
through a combined programme aimed at both the social and engineering issues
involved with the objective of establishing a programme of strategic embankment
retirement that is both socially acceptably and economically optimal. The success
of such an apprmach hinges on a much improved level of consultation and the
derivation of procedures that will reduce the level of uncertainty involved in
determining the correct set-back distance for the embankment.
2.216       Selected Priority Wors
Design Conggt
The Priority Works that have the highest ranking for early implementation are
those aimed at the stabilisation of the bankline in the immediate vicinity of
Sirajganj and along the 1S km reach centred on Sariakandi where there is a high
probability cf an early breakthrough of the Brahmaputra into the Bangali River.
These two situations are distinct in character and consequently involve different
conceptual approaches to the design of bank protection measures.
Sirtligani
At Sirajganj the erosion of the bankline since the 1950's has resulted in parts of
the old established town now fronting directy onto the river bank. In other areas
urban and peri-urban development has expanded up to the river bank. The
existing bank protection works, consisting of concrete block armouring but without
an effective underlying filter layer, extends over a length of about 1.5 km and when
this was threatened with outflanking in the 1980's. the Ranigram Groyne was
constructed to the north of the town. The groyne has a sand core with concrete
block armour but again no filter layer and an inadequate toe apron (falling apron!.
The total length provided with direct protection by these existing works is some 2.2
km.
It is very apparent trom the 1992 bankline planform that this stabilised length of
bankline forms a modest protrusion into the river. For reasons that are not clear.
this is also the point on the river where the braiding intensity reduces markedly
and linked to this is the fact that the main river channel tends to be more
pronounced and somewhat less shifting than further upstream. In recenl years the
effect has been further enhanced by the gradual decline of the main left bank
anabranch which has resulted in a larger proportion of the river flow rassing down
the right bank anabranch passing Sirajganj.
2.11



Sartakandi and Mathuraeara
In this case the primary oblective is distinctly different to that at Siraiganj: anhough
the associated proteclion of the small town of Sanakandi has certain similarities.
Over the past 30 years the nght bank of the Jamuna (Brahmaputra) has shifted
westwards by a net amount in tne order 3 km over a consiOerable length and there
is now only a thin sliver of land separating it from the Bangali River: in places this
stnp is less than 1 km wide. This erosion is continuing and during the last
monsoon season the bankline retreated a further 300 m on average over a length
of several kilometres, further reducing the separation. Since aggressive bends
can result in annual rates of bank erosion in the range 500 to 1000 m. and
occasionally more, it is reasonable to anticipate an imminent breakthrough.
afthough it is not possible to predict the particular Vear in which it will occur.
The meandering pattern of the Bangali means that the width of the separating
band of land varies and therefore the most vulnerable stretches, in terms of the
least amount of erosion required for a breakthrough. can be simply identified.
However the panern of the Jam una bank erosion is of a complex stochastic nature
and it is not necessarily most likely that the breakthrough will first occur at the
narrowest point. The least width of separation at present is in fact to the north of
Sariakandi on a stretch of the Jamuna river that has been relatively quiescent tor
a numbDer of years and which at present shows no signs of becoming active again.
Although by the nature of the river, this situation could change rapidly.
The objective in this case is therefore to stabilise the bankline in the most cost-
effective way that will minimise the nsk of a breakthrough occurring. In order to
achieve this it is necessary to look at the reach as a whole and not to be unduly
influencec by the vanation in the width of the separating strip or the pattem of
erosion that happens to be taking place in any one year. At the same time the
presence of significant townships such as Sariakandi cannot be iqnored.
The fundamental assumption that has been made, based on the interpretation of
planform dynamics, is that it is unlikely that severe erosion will occur
simultaneously to the north and south of Sariakandi and that although the tocus
may switch, this will take place over several years so that an appropriate timely
response can be initiated.
The objective of the priority works is therefore narrowed to the stabilisation of the
reach south of Sariakandi and the protection of the township itself.
The second important assumption is that the depth of embayments that will form
between hardened lengths of the river bank will not exceed the most severe depth
of penetration observed in the case of very aggressive bends. This assumption
is also consistent with the conclusion reached by the JMB detailed design studies
which was based on both morphological interpretation and physical modelling.
What remains largely a manter of conjecture is the worst re-entrant configuration
that can occur immediately upstream of a hard-point. It is this form of erosion that
can potentially result in outflanking and effective failure of the hardpoint. The most
conservative approach would be to follow the methodology commonly employed
in India for the determination of the length of guide bunds for barrages. The
application of such a procedure in this case would however result in excessively
long hard-points that would be out of proportion to the benefits involved.
2.13



protected slope must not be subject to slumping or other forms ot deformation
under conditions having a comparable likelihood of occurrence (it is impracticable
and uneconomic to design tor stability under the most extreme conditions).
The main elements of the revetment design are therefore:
-         a slope that Is designed to be stable under normal combined
earthquake loading and drawdSown conditions:
*         a geotextile tabric that is designed to permit drainage of the
underlying soil while preventing migration of soil particles under
differential pressures induced by wave action and soil-water flow,
-         an armour layer designed to hold the geotextile firmly in position and
therefore capable of resisting the forces induced by high velocity flow
and wave action;
Armour Layer Materials
The armour layer can be composed ot any material that will perform the function
deseribed above: the main consideration being the submerged weight of the
elements. The choice at this time and in this situation ies between precast
concrete blocks using either -crushed stone or brick aggregate. quarried rock and
boulders.
Boulders and concrete blocks have the advantage of a high local content. in terms
of both materials and manpower. Quarried rock has some structural and durability
advantages over concrete blocks but is not avalable in the country and must be
imported.
Boulders were eliminated from the selection in this case, because ot the limited
availability of material of the required size, leaving the choice between the other
three torms. Other than the durability consideration, tMe engineering properties
are similar. and the main tactors affecting a decision are: use of local labour and
resources, environmental impact, availability and cost. These last two are subject
to external influences that remain largely unpredictable and so some, subject to
adequate environmental safeguards, i is appropriate to leave the opbon open at
this stage and to allow the Contractor some flexibility in the matter.
The construction of bank protecion works on this scale and in a river of this size
call for resources and implementation experience that is not available within
Bangladesh at present. Moreover, the controls required both to minimise adverse
environmental impact and to ensure that the works are built in accordance with the
specification can only be achieved through the medium of IC civil works contracts
with supeNrision by an independent Engineer of suitable stature and experience.
Post Construction
The civil works have been designed to be robust and under normal conditions they
should require relatively litte maintenance. However it is essential that when
situations arise that call tor some remedial or supplementary works then the
2.15



3           DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT
3.1         Introduction
Thts chapter describes the present environment o1 the project area and the main
components that would be affected by environment change brought about by
project works.
There is a need to stress the confined boundaries of the project area. which have
been set by historical events, as well as the scope of the project works. The
master plan studies, although focussed on the right bank have also by their nature
to consider the entire river, and the environmental consequences that would flow
from any training strategy. The immediate concem of the project is however the
stabilisation of specific sections of tt e western bankline where erosion is causing
severe problems and the development of strategies for the improved performance
of the existing BRE.
Detailed assessment of the floodplain of both left and right banks are being
undertaken by other FAP studies. and the assessment of altemative strategies by
= the BRTS is closely interrelated with these companion studies.
In respect of the Priority Works. the impacts will be defined by the nature and
locality of these works: their scale, and the environs/sectors affected by specific
project proposals. The environment under consideration will be that of the right
bank in the works' localities, as well as the sectors/environs that may be affected.
In all cases of works i is essential that the effect of scale be seen in its proper
perspective. The Brahmaputra is a major river, whose anabranches are large
enough to be considered as individual. large rivers. The initial works are likely to
have an impact only in a relatively small area but in the long-term. the cumulative
effct of these and similar future works will be to provide a far greater degree of
security from river movement and erosion than is enjoyed by the occupants of the
right bank at present.
32          The physical environment
The gross project area consists of the Brahmaputra-Jamuna river system, from the
BrahmaputralTeesta confluence to the BrahmaputralHurasagar confluence and,
on the right bank, the 220 km long BRE earth embankment and, as a
consequence, the lands protected by the BRE (Figure 2.1).
The region as a whole slopes from the north towards the south-east. with an
altitude range of 90 m to less than 10 m above sea level. There is considerable
physical diversity and micro-relief which has a major impact on agriculture and the
incidence of flooding. The basic morphological division is between the geology of
the flood plains and the old Himalayan Piedmont Plain. The Teesta flood plain
dominates the northem part of the area, whilst the the southern portion of the
Brahmaputra-Jamuna valley is developed from the flood plain of this river and the
Karatoya-Bangali flood plain (Figure 3.1).
The soils can be divided into Floodplain and Terrace soils, which are described as
follows (Bogra, Gaibandha and Sirajganj are used as reference districts):
3.1



Slopes in the in the Barind Tract, which has non-alluvial soils, are generally
steeper and flooding is much less widespread than in most parts of the alluvial
zone. Rainfall varies substantially, being highest in the north-easl (eg: Rangpur)
and lowest in the south-west (eg: Raishai). The range of rainfall is shown in Tables
3.1 & 3.2 [with Bogra representing the central point of the area).
The landscape is agricultural. dominated by rice. This extensive monocuture is
broken up in places where other crops provide a local dominance. Around
Shariakandi large quantities of pepper (Capsicum frutesens) are grown, and
moving northward small plantations of banana (Musa saoientum) are found.
However, even where other crops are grown extensively, rice fields are still the
dominant feature of the landscape. The landscape is flat and featureless, broken
only by clusters of rural villages. The villages are dominated by copses of trees
(mainly mango (Maoifera indica) and jack-truit (Artocarous heteroohvllus ) and
bamboo stands. These copses are the village forests of the area.and represent an
important timber resource for the local community.
In the area of the Barind Tract there are extensive brickfields that take advantage
of the large clay deposits. The major conurbations are at Betil, Shazapur and
Belkuchi in the south, Siraiganj on the Brahmaputra river. Bogra on the westem
edge of the flood plain, and Gaibandha towards the north.
3.3         The Brahmaputra river
3.3.1       Brief history of the river
The first reliable information on the planform of the river is probably the map
published by Rennen in 1765, showing a braided river hugging the Meghalaya hills
and then taking a south-easterly alignment to follow the eastem edge of the
Madhupur Forest tract, which is a slightly elevated area of more resistant Pliocene
deposits. Somewhere in the vicinity of Mymensingh the river changed to a much
more meandering pattem of low sinuosity.
The Brahmaputra had previously followed courses further to the north-east and
had trended south-west to its 1765 course. Given this trend and its contact with
the harder Madhupur material, the river was dearly poised for a major channel
shift, or avulsion.
The factors initiating the shift. or the precise timescale. may never be fully known
and are probably of only secondary importance in view of the long term trend.
Unless the tectonic pattern changes substantially it would seem unlikely that the
river would be inclined to return to its old course in the foreseeable future.
The map published by Wilcox in 1830 is considered to provide a reliable picture
of the planform of the river a few years after it had effectively completed its
avulsion. The river south of the avulsion point has an almost pure meandering
single thread planform. whereas further north the braid pattem remains strongly
pronounced. The underlying straight alignment. corresponding not only to the
shortest course but also perhaps linked to the alignment of the local drainage
pattem, is also noteworthy in terms of the rver's macro-planform evolution.
By 1914 the major meander loops had broken down through a process of multiple
chute channel development to create a largely Draided appearance, but with a
3.3



work following an further assessment to resolve datum errors that appear to be
present in data sets tor certain years).
The sediment that is produced through the process of bank erosion is treated by
the river in one of three ways:
(a)      transported out to the Bay of Bengal:
(b)       carried some distance before being deposited in a mobile bed form:
(C)       transported some distance before being deposited as long- term
storage in an upper level meta-stable char.
If the river is in dynamic equilibrium as suggested by the specific gauge analysis
and the interpretation of the long section data, then it would be expected that the
bed and suspended sand load entering at the head of the river reach should be
equal to that leaving at the bottom of the reach, when measured over a
reasonable period ot time.
A pilot exercise was carried out using data from the 1986 and 19B7 maps
contained in the JMBA Report for the reach between sections J-1 1-7 and J-5-6 (a
distance of 76 km) and the measurements of sediment load at Bahadurabad made
during the interval (BRTS Second Interim Report : Annex 4).
These preliminaty results would indicate that bank erosion in the study reach may
add of the order of 15 to 30 percent to the wash load coming in from upstream.
depending on the assumptions made in the analysis, but that the sand fraction is
probably in balance with as much material being deposited in the form of char
building/bank accretion as is yielded from bank erosion.
The inference is that a large proportion of bank silt yield follows is transported
directly to the Bay of Bengal but the sand yield follows relatively short travel
distances from bank source to either the mobile bed forms or the meta-stable
chars.
These preliminary results are based on only part of the river over one year and
must therefore be interpreted with extreme caution they demonstrate the potential
value of this form of calculation. Recognition of the intimate link between bank
erosion and char growth, and of the pivotal role of the sand size traction in both
processes have important implications for predicting the rivers response to bank
stabilization and river training.
3Z3         Cham
Perhaps the most prominent features of a braided river are the braid bars (chars)
which are responsible forthe rivers characteristic multi-channel cross-section. very
high width/depth ratio. braided planform and shifting nature.
A visual examination was made of the water surface elevation corresponding to
dominant discharge in relation to char top elevations at all river cross-sections
surveyed in 1988/89. Water surface elevations were taken from a preliminary run
of the BRTS version of the Mike 1 1 1 -D General Model, for a flow of 38.000 m3is
The results are shown in Figure 3.3.
3.5



located about 2 km inland from the alignment of the original embankment. which
was built ar a distance o0 1.6 - 2.4 km from the 1968 river bankline.
In 1977. a BWDB feasibility study on rehabilitation and drainage of the BRE
reported that up to 18 percent of the gross project area of about 600.000 acres
(243.000 ha) was effectively protected by the BRE. The aftected area varied
between 20.000 acres (8.100 ha) in normal dry years to 100.000 acres (40.500
ha) in wet years.
Public cuts in the embankments are made from time to time: either where people
living on the river side of an embankment seek to relieve high flood levels
threatening their homesteads or land (by releasing water into adjoining protected
land) or where run-off from heavy rainfall accumulates on the inside of an
embankment and submerges tarmers' crops (demanding immediate action).
These cuts are normally confined to the reach north ot the Manas Regulator where
the natural land drainage is towards the Brahmaputra River.
In the years following the construction of the BRE. additional measures have been
taken at various points, in attempt to maintain the security of the flood defence.
These measures have included:
-         cross-bars and groynes, with the aim of creating zones of low velocity
flow immediately adjacent to the bank.
*         bank revetment. with the aim of hardening the bank sufficiently so
that it could withstand the near bank velocities.
A considerable amount of investment has been made in bank stabilisation
measures over the past 20 years but the onty example of relative success is the
Sirajgani town protection, consisting primarily of multiple layers of randomly
dumped concrete cubes. The protection of Shariakandi by means of the Kalitola
groyne may be considered a partial success in that the erosion was controlled lor
long enough to see the main point of attack move further downstream. The
survival of Kalitola is probably attributable to the fact that the most severe
conditions did not develop at this location before the eroding bend died naturally
due to a transter of anabranch flow. If conditions such as experienced at
Fulcharighat or Kazipur had developed it is unlikely that the groyne would have
survived.
3.42        Priority locations
Priority locations Tor treatrnent have been identified, primarily based on the degree
of economic losses/damage and social dislocation, arising from active bank
erosion with, in almost all cases. an imminent risk of a breach in the BRE or where
a breach has already occurred. However, the nature and rate of bank erosion.
together with the amount of capital investment required at the different locations
were also important oonsiderations.
In addition. there is a very real concem that the Brahmaputra may break through
to the Bangali River (if bank protection works are not implemented at
Shariakandi/Deluabari and Mathurapara). which would result in a large proportion
of the BRE project area being affected by prolonged inundation. The subsequent
restoration of the continuity of the BRE without interruption of local drainage would
3.7



Sariakandi isolated on an island, and subjected to both active erosion and severe
Ilooding trom both the Brahmaputra and - the captured Bangali channel.
Furthermore. the signdicant increase in flows down the Bangali would inundate a
large proportion ot the BRE protected area.
(d)       Betil
Betil consists of two large villages/markets and an important weaving centre.
There is a high population density (1.800 per sq.km) for a rural area, with an
estimated 10.000 people under threat.
No measures have been taken to mitigate bank erosion. Although active erosion
appears to have subsided in 1991. there is still a very high probabdity that the BRE
will be breach in the very near future (at present the BRE is only 150 meters from
the river bank). Flooding from a breach in the BRE will severely disrupt this
weaving centre at substantial cost to the local inhabitants.
(e)       Kazipur
In recent years there has been very active erosioa which has resulted in almost
the entire loss of the old Kazipur town and Upazila headquarters. The Upazila HQ
have now been moved to a new site. The displaced population are mainly living
on the BRE. Population in the new market area (including BRE) and Upazila HQ
is estimated to be in the order of 8,500. Active erosion now appears to migrated
about 1 km dDwnstream, but a large health complex and a number of semi-pucca
buildings remain under immediate threat.
Since the mid 1980s. the area has suffered from frequent breaches of the BRE.
These breaches have resulted in severe crop damage, as well as social and
economic dislocation. Retire embankments have also been recurrently built (with
associated land acquisitions problems), but have subsequently been breached.
The severely affected agricultural area has been subjected to a deposition of river
sand, which is clearly seen on the satelite imagery and aerial photography.
A new retired embankment has been constructed, which is currently intacL
(located approximately 0.5 km from the river bank).
(f)       Mathurapara
This has been an area of very active bank erosion in recent years. which has
resulted in the relocation of Mathurapara market and a number of villages. The
BRE has also been trequently breached and during the 1991 monsoon season a
direct channel connection with the Bangali River was created by the flood flows.
That same year there was a very high rate of erosion (about 300 metres over a
length of 2 km) and very considerable displacement of people. The new
Mathurapara market (population of around 3.000) is now under immediate threat
of erosion, as it is now located on the present bank line. The new market has
already suffered from flooding from the breach which has destroyed or damaged
a number of pucca and semi-pucca buildings and severely disrupted the
population. Almost all the population are now living in Katcha houses or tin sheds
and many are displaces from recent river erosion.
3.9



sections. The persons interviewed were mainly those living along the embankment
crest, and most would tall into the category of landless squatters who had
migrated to the BRE for salety.
The responses were consolidated tor each section and provide some insight into
the opinion ol this group of people. Not only was the positivelnegative response
to the BRE sought. but also any comment on its possible improvement. Only at
three sections was there a general consensus that the BRE was not desirable.
These sections were centred around Mathurapara/Chandanbaisa were the BRE
is under active erosion and multiple breaching has recently occurred.
The other sections provided views that the BRE was "gooc thingidoing its
jobireliable". Some 80 percent of the people offered advice on improvements of
the BRE covering aspects including: increase in height, better compaction, loca
retirement, width improvements, maintenance and overall improved construction
standards.
Specific consultation visits were made in the course of the study (July 1991) to
important districts along the BRE. In these visits the views ot the local authorities,
influential persons and villagers were determined Mrough open discussion. These
views were not confined to the BRE. but to the quality of lIe that existed within the
protected areas, and the consequences experienced as a result of breaches in
some areas.            a
Tne main issues raised in these visits are summarised below:
Kazipur
At the time of the visit the town was suffering from severe river bank erosion. Also
visited were some chars, most of which were about to be inundated; with the
people living there looking for shelters for themselves and livestock. Discussions
were held with the local union Parishad chairman, teachers. farnters, shopkeeper
mid other local people.
The general opinion was that the BRE retirements do not last long (according to
their observations) due to weak construction: and that the embankments should
be raised so that flood water could not flow over dunng hign flood period (although
there is no evidence of tai;ures due to overtopping).
Though fish production declined, crop production increased by almost double due
to flood protection, which allowed production of three crops in a year. The
embankments serve as a temporary shelter for flood affected people. besides
providing a good road communication system in the rural areas when most of the
land remains under water.
Though fish capture would have been higher had there been no flood protection
devices. the people acknowledged thal flood protection brought immense benefits
to them. Prior to the 1964 embankment, huge damage in all sectors used to occur;
the embankment of 1964 (and retirement of 1984) were certainly perceived to be
of much benefit to them.
Their desire was for a fairly stable flood protection structure which would last for
a considerable period (say about 15 - 20 years). Frequent breaches. especially at
3.11



retirement side and also in the char areas which are not flooded. Frequent shifting
of Fulchari railway terminal due to erosion was causing dislocation of railway
communications between the eastern and westem part of the country.
Crops could not be raised effectrvely when flood water recedes. and the number
ot flood affected people is increasing every year. They considered that immediate
flood protection as at Sirajganj (uy building hard point or groyne) was necessary.
Tle public also reported losses of lives due to water bome diseases when flood
water recedes. Sanitation is poor. and drinking water is abstracted frm a shallow
aquifer about 12-15 m. This water is suspected to be contaminated with
pathogenic bacteria due seepage of polluted surface water.
While these reports contain a certain degree of hyperbole, that is a common
teature of such open consultation meetings, and some clear inconsistencies with
established facts. the general picture that emerges is that at all levels in the rural
society the BRE is perceived by the large majority as providing clear net benefits
to the community as a whole. The desire is that ways be found to improve the
performance of the BRE so that confidence in its function may be enhanced. This
improved performance is commonly linked in peoples' minds with stabilisation of
the river bank and the consequential reduction in loss of arable land and
homesteads. There is however generally very little comprehension of the
magnitude of the task and the scale of the costs involved.
3.6         Agriculture
3.6.1       The rice crops
Rice in the region general falls into three categories: local varieties, local improved
varieties (pajam). and high-yielding varieties (HYV. The first crop is planted
between mid-February and early September and is transplanted Boro rice. The
spring rice. Aus. is usually broadcast CB Aus) in March/April, though occasionally
is transplanted (T Aus). The summer crop is Aman rice. Fixed height Aman (ocal
and HYV) is transplanted in July/August (T Aman). Floating aman can be
broadcast (alone or mixed with aus) in March/April: or transplanted (after Boro) in
June. Floating aman is capable of growing to survive flood waters.
3.6.2       Effec,t of breaches in BRE on rice crop
The direct consequences of flooding due to a breach of the BRE is the loss of at
least one crop. Much depends on the severity of the breach, the duration of flood
and the height of inundation. Crops are particularly vulnerable to flood damage at
the time shown in Table 3.3. The cumulative effect of an open breach is most
damaging, as it is very difficult to successfully cultivate a monsoon crop in
subsequent years when the area is exposed to high velocity flood water and deep
inundation.
Locally, heavy deposition of sand occurs at the time of the breach which initially
renders the land unsuitable for crop production in the following Rabi season. In
subsequent years farmers attempt to grow boro rice or other Rabi crops but
productivity is low. Increasingly. these areas are being planted with sugar cane.
which can withstand high levels of inundation. but with lower yields.
3.13



This is said to have led to a deterioration in livestock health and productivity. as
well as a marked decline in livestock numbers; particularly cattle which are
reported to have decreased by 25 percent to 40 percent over the past ten years
in certain parts of the BRE protected areas. Coupled wfth the increase in cropping
intensity, this decline has created a noticeable shortage of draft power, especially
for small and marginal farmers.
The North-West Regional Study (FAP-2) indicated that draft animals are reducing
both in numbers and strength; and that increased todder production could only
take place at the expense of human food production, thus making the availability
of good quality cattle feed unlikely.
No accurate statistics are available on livestock losses. Discussion with farmers
during the tield surveys. reveal that si.gnificant livestock losses were experienced
in the areas severely affected by a breach in the BRE. However, flooding from a
breach in the BRE is not likely to make a significant contribution to livestock feed
resources. and so will have neither a negative nor positive impact on future
livestock populations and productivity. With regard to the impact on future
livestock development within the BRE protected area, it has been assumed that
breaches in the BRE would not have a significant overall effect.
3.7         Fisheries
The capture fisheries in the Brahmaputra river appaear to have suffered seriously
over the past decade. Reported annual fish catches since 1983 have dropped by
over 50 percent in practically all stations (Figure 3.4). The data for Bogra and
Tangail districts, both on the left bank, show very similar declines, and the fishery
can be considered to be operating at barely subsistence level at present.
Capture fisheries has been identified as one of the sectors worse affected by flood
control projects. The main negative effects of FCD/FCDI schemes an fish
production can be summarised as follows:
construction of flood control embankments reduces the area of
perennial beels and floodplain available for fish nursery and feeding
grounds. thereby reducing the overall fish production potential
-         construction of regulators and cross dams prevents migration of fish
to and from breeding grounds, resulting in reduced stock of migratory
species (principally higher value carp)
-         increased uses of chemical fertilizers and pesticides, associated with
the adoption of HYV leads to the pollution of natural water bodies and
to higher fish mortality rates
-         the reduced areas of open water within flood protected area has
severely  restricted  subsistence  fishing,  with  detrimental
consequences on the income and nutrition of the poorest section of
the community
-         reduced fish stocks and lower catch rates have endangered the
livelihood of fisherman, many of when have been forced to migrate
from the protected areas in search of altemative employment.
3.15



The present situation with regard to the river fishery in general is one of a
declining sector, with reliance on artisanal fisheries, and a reducing fish-spawn
catch.
3.8         Water resources
Much of the water supply in the areas protected by the BRE are from groundwater
sources, both trom shallow aquifers and deep tube wells (DTW). However most
rural families still use surface waters for bathing and washing. and even for
drinking water in many cases. The relatively poor sanitation facilities (pit latrines),
and cases of open defecation and animal faeces. can cause contamination of the
shallow aquifer and surface waters as floods recede.
For communities along the bank of the Brahmaputra river, the river provides
bathing and washing areas. In many of the villages, and along the BRE where
squatter communities have developed, both local authorities and agencies such
as UNICEF have provide village hand pumps for supply.
Most of the area of the Brahmaputra floodplain, and the northem area of the
Teesta floodplain, appear to receive adequate recharge under present conditions.
'There is some concem about aquifer recharge in the southern areas of tile region,
especially in a belt north of the Ganges (Figure 3.6).
There is little data on the effect of pollution on water quality. Table 3.5 gives data
for Siraiganj collected during the study. This indicates a generally acceptable
quality for river water, although there are indications of increased iron
concentrations in some samples. The need for continuous water quality data is
highlighted by the results of this 'spot' analysis. The later set of samples
(Table 3.6) do not exhibit these higher iron concentrations.
3.17



4           ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT: PRIORITY WORKS
4.1         INTRODUCTION
4.1.1       Scale of works
In considering the possible environmental impacts of the project. it is important to
remain aware ot the scale of the works in relation to the natural processes that are
occurring due to bank erosion by the Bramhaputra river. and breaching of the
BRE. This has been described in Chapters 1 and 2 of this report.
The present, natural condition along the right bank of the river is that of extensive
erosion (Table 1.1), and in order to maintain flood protection the BRE has had to
be progressively retired.
The proposed urgent bank stabilisation works are relatively small, both in area and
in their effect when set against the present river regime.
The Priority Works are however only a first stage in a longer term and continuous
process of strategically improving bank stabilisation and. as a consequence, the
standard of flood protection. In this context this EIA on the Pnority Works wig form
a basisi for future environmental assessments made on progressive stages of right
bank stabilization.
4.1,2       Evalusation of Impacts
The FPCO draft Guidelines for EIA have been followed in the assessment of
environmental impacts. In order to provide a reproducible and objective
assessment and evaluation, a system of impact scoring has been developed in
this project, and translated to the evaluation scale recommended in the FPCO
draft Guidelines.
The methodology used is discussed in Chapter 6. The important environmental
components: physicaL'chemical. ecological, sociologicallcultural and economic
have been assessed against the actions/sectors detailed under three project
phases: pre- construction. construction and post-construction.
Matrices have been produced summarising these assessments. Table 6.1
summarises the assessments on a withoutwith project basis, Table 6.2 shows the
evaluated changes brought about by the project, and Table 6.3 summarises the
possible means by which mifigation measures can be employed to reduce the
negative impacts identified.
4.2         IMPACT ASSESSMENT: COMMON ISSUES
There are some issues common to all the Priority Works, and these are discussed
here (though shown in the impact matrices against the appropriate project phase).
4.1



The project has a minimum requirement o1 bricks for the proposed revetment
works. The options open for the main revetment armour layer involve the use of
either brick or crushed stone aggregates for the manufacture of cement conc,ete
{c.c.) blocks or the importation of quarry rock. Because of the large quantities of
materials involved and the unpredictability of iogistical constraints on the supply
of the materials, it is considered prudent to plan for the possible use of all three
options. The final choice. which may include a combination of the options, will be
taken near the time of construction. Table 4.3 gives the estimate for materials.
The minimum prolect requirement would be of the order o117.5 million (equivalent
to the annual output from 13 doubie-bumer brick works). If bricks were used as
the only source for aggregate the requirement of over 1S0 million bricks would be
equivalent to the annual output from 117 double-bumer brick works. The project
would demand a minimum of an extra fuel use equivalent to 4.000 tonnes of coal
or almost 10.000 tonnes of timber, increasing (with the use of brick aggregate) to
35.000 tonnes of coal or almost 87,000 tonnes o1 timber.
Wrthin the project area the timber would normally come from the village forests
(the copses of fruit, shade trees and bamboo planted around the villages). There
is concem lest the recent trend in the use of bamboo roots to fire the kilns may.
in the longerterm, reduce the stock of bamboo, which is the main housing material
for katcha homes (more than 90 percent of rural housing).
Whilst this increase in brick production locally would certainly provide a positive
benefit, in the form of increased local labour and services dunng the life of the
project, the continuing use of timber for brick works in the area must lead to
considerable concem over the further impact of timber resources that the project
would impose on the present apparently un-controlled situation.
f the contractor chooses to use larger brick works outside the local area, there will
be an increase in the impact of vehicles and boats in the transport of materiais to
the project site, a reducing of local emploiment benefit as well as in project related
impacts and land degradation.
Mtigation
A minimum number of bricks are required for the project and the full impact o1
production cannot be offset by mitigation. There wil be a degree of land
degradation, and localised increase in dust/soot levels during the
project/production period. The use of fuel cannot be avoided, but a contractual
imposition can be placed on the civil works Contractor whereby he is obliged to
obtain bricks only from specifically approved coal-only fired kilns. This nas to be
enforced through independent, regular monitoring of the designated brick works
by the Engineer.
The question of the larger scale use of bricks as aggregate tor the main armouring
for the bank protection works is more difficut. The brickfields will bring
considerable local employment for the production period, which must be seen as
positive benefit, and the use of stone could add 30 - 40 percent to the cost of
materials.
There are in this case two possible ways by which this problem can be reduced:
4.3



11 may also be necessary for the contractor to undertake some channel
development. particulaly in the Sariakandi/Mathurapara area. if he intends to use
motor vessels to bnng in materials, as there is no suitable landing for such boats
at present.
There is likely to be no disruption to the use ol country boats during the
construction  period.  Indeed,  given  the  nature  of  the  site  at
Shanakandi/Mathurapara. it Is likely that there will be an increase of country boat
use as a result of the project, which will provide a positive benefit to a significant
proportion of the local river communities.
Mitigation
The impacts on navigation are thus likely to be small, and experienced only under
dry season conditions and for short periods during the construction phase. There
will be no long term adverse impact.
Conditions have been written into the ICB Contract Specffication to ensure that all
impacts on navigation are minised. Sources of material of hydraulic fill will be
sited on the westem side of the main river channel to obviate interference to
navigation trom the floating pipelines.
Sedimentation of the main shipping channels is therefore unlikely to be a problem
it the works are executed to the normal standards associated with Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and properly supervised by the Engineer.
Providing motor vessel berths at Sariakandi/Mathurapara may also disturb
sediments, but these are more likely to temporarily impact on local arisanal
fisheries than on any other river traffic. The conditions relating to ICB standards
and supervision also would apply in this instance.
Tne railway and pontoon berths are designed to be simply and quickly relocated
in response to the naturaly rapidly changing channel conditions. Both BR and
BIWrA have considerable experience in this and undertake such actionon a
routine basis. Provided that good liaison is maintained between the Contractor,
through the Engineer. and the BIWTA, BR any temporary impa. arising from the
construction works can be kept to a minimal level. As a further safeguard.
provision is being made in the civil works contract for the Contractor to carry out
remedial dredging should the need arise.
42.3        Dredging and Hydraulic Fill
Background
There are requirements for both dredging and hydraulic fill operations to be carried
out at both sites of the Priority Works. The concer,rs about these operabons are
their possible impacts on navigation and fisheries. particularly in the dry season.
as during the monsoon such operations are reduced, and the natural sediment
transport and flows in the Bramhaputra river are considerably increased.
Dredging operations will in general be localised. either for contractors access, or
for construction  of the  underwater portion  of the  revetments.   At
Sariakandi/Mathurapara there will be a small excess of dredged material that will
4.5



However this disruption is only temporary and can be partially mitigated by
designing the work programme to move from north to south, thus allowing
completed areas in the north to be used for fishing as the works move southward
with the river flow.
There should be little disruption to the fish-spawn fishery. since dredging works by
their nature Aill cease with the onset of the monsoon (between May-June). Where
local lishermen identify suitable fish-spawn catch areas (which may vary trom year
to year), care should be taken to avoid construction actifty in these areas for the
short catchtng season, and to carry out necessary dredging from areas
downstream wherever possible. The main areas of concem for this fishery may be
In the Sarqlgani area (though this is reported to be a collection centre rather than
a fishery). Suitable provisions are incorporated in the civil works contract.
In all cases close liaison with the local fishermen, and the Department of Fisheries
(particularly the local district office in Sirajganj) will considerably reduce impacts.
42.4         Water, sanKtaon and public health
The Priority Works will not, in any foreseeable manner, alter the present situation
with regard to water supply or saniation to the main dwellings in the project areas.
There will be a need to consider some new provision lor these services in the case
of the relocation of squatter tamilies in Sirajganj, but for the rest of the project sites
the works proposed should not interfere with existing services.
The Contractors facilies at the sites will create a large temporary concentration
of people for whom adequate facilities must be provided.
Public health is generally a matter of hygiene and disease transmission, mainly by
water or vectors. The Priority Works will temporarily extend water bodies during
the construction phase, and for this reason the Engineer has the power to ensure
adequate spraying or drainage to reduce the vector problem.
In this regard three main provisions are incorporated in the Specification and
Conditions for the civa works contracL The Contractor will be responsible for
(a)       provision of adequate drainage of inundation water in the area
enclosed by the extension of the Sirajganj embankment, particularly
in any areas for temporary re-location of squatter famiies. Such
drainage will also ensure that sanitation wastes are not brought up
through flooding, and so reduce the risk of water bome infection in
this area.
(b)       spraying of the borrow pits created during the hard point/cross bar
construction (particularly where these are near to temporary work
camps, housing). At the end ot the project these borrow pits are
expected to be used for crop/fish production.
(c)       provision and maintenance of satisfactory water supply and sanitation
facilities for the Contractor's workforce and the Engineer's personnel.
(d)       making good any damage caused to existing facilities during the
construction of the works or any associated activities.
4.7



The acquisition of the land will follow the established procedures for land
acquisition, and compensation will allow the land owner to re-establish himseff
within the area.
Contractors land acquisition
This component of the project will cause a temporary loss of agricultural land.
mainly in the area south of the Ranigram groyne. This may result in some loss of
employment as well as production, for the period of the project.
In mtigation there is likely to be greater opportunities for employment during the
project lIe. and the land owner will be compensated for loss of production by the
rents due on the land acquired.
The Contractor wAll be bound by the conditions of the ICB contract under the
supervision by the Engineer. All land used for temporary works will be retumed to
their original state prior to the departurre of the Contractor from the site.
Hydraulic fill of town/groyne area
The ecological impacts of this actvity relate mainly to the impact on fisheries and
possible interference with navigation. Section 4.2 has dealt with the navigation
issues and Chapter 4.2.3 with the type and spread of sediments, their possible
impacts and the mitigation measures available.
There may be some loss of production in the fill area during tne life of the project
but this wil have been compensated for during land acquisition. The short-term
loss of income wil be offset by project-generated employmont. and the greater
land area and security from flooding provided by the project in the long- term.
Manufactueo of bricks
The impacts and mitigation on this a. et of the works has been covered in
Section 4.2.1.
Collection and atockpilInrg of matrils
No significant environmental impacts are envisaged for this activity.
There wil be positive. though temporary, impacts from this component relabng to
the increase in project-generated employment on the contractors site; and
indirectly from the income obtained by local services to the contractors work force.
Transport of matials/block maWing
This activity could lead to considerable increase in traffic congestion on the main
access road to Sirajganj. It is proposed that the contractor's essential vehicle
traffic be confined to the north road of the town (to avoid the town centre) and use
the crest of the embankment as a supply route for the works.
The obligations imposed on the Contractor through the Specification will provide
him with a strong incentive to minise the use of road transport in favour of water
and rail transport. thereby mitigating the road traffic nuisance. An increase in water
4.9



4.4.2       Construction phase
Construction of upstream termination new revetment
Overall this phase will change the existing shoreline between the groyne and the
town, providing a reveted embankment. Flooding of the present char land behind
the embankment will be prevented. Any sediments dispersed during this activity
are not expected to affect local fishing, which generally occurs further up- and
down-stream, outside the effect of the plume.
There will be some temporary interference with the casual beaching and repair of
country boats in this bay area during construction but this facility has only been
available for two or three years since natural accretion developed in the area and
does not constitute a long standing tradition. The potential tor these activities to
the north of Ranigram Groyne will not be affected.
Provision has been made in the design of the revetment lor ghats (steps) suitable
for the mooring of country boats and for access to the water for bathing. It would
also be possible to construct ramps for vehicle access to ferries in this section.
As noted earlier, the form of the contract is designed to encourage the Contractor
tD make as much use as possible of water transport and it is envisaged that he will
make use of this section for his own wharfage facilities during construction. The
Contractor's essential landbased heavy transport will be limited to the peripheral
roads and he vwll be responsible for the upkeep of such roads insofar as wear and
tear by his vehicles is concemed.
There will be positive. though temporary. impacts from this component relating to
the increase in project-generated employment on the contractor's site; and
indirectly from the income obtained by local services to the contractor's work force.
Hydraulic fill of new section
The possible impacts and mitigation of this activity have been considered in
Section 4Z3. On completion of the fill the area will provide valuable additional
flood free land for high value agricultural and urban development
Upgrading of existng town revetments
There is a possibility of increased sediment concentrations in the river resulting in
some temporary shoaling in the vicinity of the BlWrA vehicle ferry ghat during
construction of the most downstream portion of the revetment but the railway ferry
ghat is sufficiently downstream as to be out of range of any significant effect The
situation will be regularly monitored by the Contractor, under the supervision of the
Engineer, and provision has been made in the civil works contract for the
Contractor to undertake or arrange for remedial dredging to be undertaken should
the necessity arise.
Access by vessels to the most downstream 300 m of the existing reventent and
for perhaps another 200m dowtrWeam of this, both of which are currently used
by cargo boats for off-loading, will not be possible during the few weeks in which
construction is taking place over this short section. Given adequate liason with
BIWTA and the shipowners this is not considered to present a serious problem.
4.11



placing of sand-filled geotextile bags, concrete blocks or rock trom pontoons. This
activity is not likely to cause any significant disturbance of any form and should be
less than in terms of quantity than is carried out at present.
Town area
The construction phase will have brought a degree of temporary prosperity to
certain sections of the town. which may disappear at the end of the works.
In the long-term, however, the town will have been left with a considerable number
of positive advantages not available at present. The security of housing within the
town area will have been ensured. New land will have been created benefitting
from full flood protection. A new river-front road and better landings for all river
craft will have been provided.
These advantages will become part of the future for the Sirajganj. and the
pourashava should take account of these future long-term benefits in planning how
Sirajganj can continue to maximise the benefits obtained from the projecL
Agriculture
In local terms agricultural around Siraiganj town will benefit form greater security
from flood and erosion by the Bramhaputra river, as well as the increase in land
suitable for high value cropping created behind the new length of revetmenL
Fsheries
It is unlikely that in the long-term there will be any positive or negative change in
the river fisheries as a result of the works. The fisheries are already considerably
depleted, and after completion of the works no long-term impacts are apparent.
The expansion of the fish market in Sirajganj is a possibilty, but this will largely
depend on the natural recovery of the river fshery, rather than on the
improvements in landing provided by the project
Water, sanitation and public health
It is unlikely that in the long-term there will be any positive or negative change in
these components as a result of the works-
WirdlIfe
This component has been discussed in Section 4.2.5. No significant change
attributable to the project is antidpated.
4.5         ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACTS          SARlAKANDUMAThURAPARA  BANK
PROTECTION WORKS
4.5.1       Pre-construction phase
Land acquisition for the civil works
The main impact of this aspect will be in the loss of a relatively small amount of
4.13



Trarsport of materials and concrete block making
The only direct access to the project area is by road or boat. and transport of
materials to the three principle construction locations will require careful planning.
All-weather road access is available by public road to Sariakandi but this in its
present condition would not be suitable for the regualr mass haulage of material,
particularly as it would involve movement through the congested centre of Bogra
town. The present ferry crossing of the Bangali river is also unsuitable for the
regualr transport of heavy goods vehicles.
There is no existing road to either the Mathurapara or the Sariakandi hardpoint
sites. A country road in poor condition approaches the area from Chandanbaisa
to the south but stops short. Use of the BRE has been specifically denied to the
Contractor; it is not designed for this purpose and much ot its length is occuppied
by squatters.
The options open to the Contractor are to temporarily acquire land for the
construction of temporary haul roads, which could be brick surfaced to facilitate
reinstatement, and to make maximum possble use of waterbome transport. A
combination of these two methods will probably be necessary because of the
uncertainty regarding the location of navigable channels at the tine of
construction.
It is recognised that access during construction will be a major concem for the
Contractor and that this could potentially result in signfficant temporary impacts in
the various areas of the project. The civil works contract Specification contains
controls spefically designed to address these potentialities and the standard
Conditions of Contract provide the Engineer with the power to monitor and enforce
the Contractor's compliance with these provisions. An important contractual
obligation in this respect is that the Contractor must submit a detailed Method
Statement covering an aspects of his temporary and permanent works for the prior
approval of the Engineer. He will not be pernitted to commence any work until
receiving this approval.
These obligations on the Contractor will encourage him to maxdmise the use of
waterbome transport and it is accepted that this will have both cost and physical
implications regarding the maintenance of navigable channels.
The making of concrete blocks will involve the crushing of either stone or bricks
for coarse aggregate and this wil result in some dust and noise nuisance but with
reasonable precautions, including appropriate siting of the work areas, these can
be on maintained at an acceptable level. This siuation is temporary, during the
block production period, and seasonal in that conditions will be worst in the dry
season.
There is little in the way of mitigation for these localised impacts. other than to
ensure that the contractor executes these works in a manner sensitive to the local
environment. Conditions to this effect are incorporated in the civil works contract
and wi:l be monitored and supervised by the Engineer.
There will be positive, though temporary, impacts from this component relating to
the increase in project-generated employment on the contractors site; and
indirectly from the income obtained by local services to the contractor's work force.
4.15



Construction of Hard Points
The two hardpoints will Consist largely o1 stabilisation of the existing bankline over
a total length of about 1.00D m by the placing of armour material on a geotextile
filter and will therefore involve minimal permanent land acquisiton. Temporary
acquisition will be required for the terminations, wnere the revetment is wrapped
back in to the bank, but on completion of the works these areas will be reinstated
and returned to their owners for normal use.
The siting of the hardpoints is determined by large scale morphological
considerations and the final postioning can only be determined close to the time
of construction when the current pattem of erosion and channel migration is
known. Since much of this area has already been devastated by breach flows
there is little in the way of homesteads in the proximity of the bankiline at present
and it is unlikely that the construction of the hardpoints will require the resettlement
of any families.
The form of construction will follow the normal pattem of dredging to torm the
underwater profile for the placement of the launching apron followed by the placing
of a geotextile fifter and finally the dumping of the armour material. Some dredged
material may be used as hydraulic but it is anticipated that there will be some
excess which will be disposed of close to the existing bankline at a location to be
approved by the Engineer that does not significantly intertere with any local
navigation or fishing interests.
There is however not expected to be any other significant direct impact on
navigation or fishing during the construction of these works, which as noted earlier.
are relatively remote from population concentrations. The plume of more turbid
water resulting from dredging activities will be confined to a strip of less than 500
m width and extending for no more than 1.000 m downstream of the works, which
is a small area in relation to the width of the river at this point.
Provision has been made in the design of the revetment for ghats (steps) suitable
for the mooring of country boats and lor access to the water for bathing in
situations where there are concentrations of homesteads requiriung such access.
As noted earlier, the form of the contract is designed to encourage the Contractor
to make as much use as possible of water transport and it is envisaged that he
may construct temporary wharfage facilities close to one or both of these sites for
this purpose, with temporary road links to his casting and stockpiling yards. The
normal contractua conditions will apply and no significant additional impact is
expected to arise from these temporary activities tnat require specific mitigation
measures.
There will be positive, though temporary, impacts from this component relating to
the increase in project-generated employment on the contractors site: and
indirectly from the income obtained by local services to the contractor's work force.
Construction of Cross-Bars
The cross-bars will consist of low earthfin embankments linking the hardpoints to
the main BRE embankment. They will be provided with protection agamnst erosion
4.17



Provision is made in the Civil works contract -for the Contractor to provide on-the-
job training in operation and maintenance activiies to selected BWDB stafl who
will form a specialised O&M Unit established for this specdic purpose, with offices
and support facilities located in Siraiganl.
The scope of the maintenance works and the responsibilities of the O&M Unt have
been described in Section 4.4.3. These routine activities will be largely carried out
using waterbome transport and are not likely to cause any significant disturbance
of any form.
From time to time it may be necessary to undertake extensions to the revetment
work or to strengthen the launching apron in areas of severe attack and this could
cause some temporary increase in suspended sediment concentrations. The scale
of such works will be an order of magnitude less than the original construction and
the impact will be commensurately less. -It the system of local liaison set up during
the project can continue. the effects of these impacts will be considerably reduced.
Town areas
The construction phase will have brought a degree of temporary prosperity to
certain sections of the towns and larger villages in the area. which may disappear
at the end of the works. The improvement in secure housing tor displaced persons
along the cross bars, the improved stabilisation of the river. and the secunty of
flooding, will be positive benefits to the towns both directly and as a result of the
growth in rural prosperity.
Agriculture
In the long-term, the possibility of a breakthough of the Bramhaputra into the
Bangali will have been greatly reduced. and the reliability of the BRE will be
substantially enhanced. This will result not only in the virtual elimination of flood
damage due to breach flows in this vicinity but also to a considerably improved
sense of confidence extending over a very much larger area. which in tum will
lead to more investment in agricultural development increased agriocultural
productity and a genral raising of the standard of living in this wider area.
Fisheries
It is unlikely that in the long-term there will be any positive or negative change in
the river fisheries as a result of the works. The ftisheries are already considerably
depleted, and after completion of the works no long-term impacts are apparent.
The artisanal fishermen may gain some indirect benefit trom any improvement in
access to markets that the project may leave behind.
Water, sanitation and public health
It is unlikely that in the long-term there will be any positive or negative change in
these components as a result of the works.
Wildlife
This component has been discusseC in Section 4.2.5.
4.19



5           ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING & ACTION PLAN
5.1         Introduction
It is imponlant that the construction of tne Priority Works not only proceed in an
environmentally and socially sensitive manner, but also that the benefits of the
works are maximised while any negative impacts are minised. This requires a
number of continuous actions that should begin in the pre-construction phase, and
be maintained well after completion of the project.
Institutional responsibiliies may change as the project proceeds, particularly in
relation to decision making, although the tundamental data collection and analysis
tasks remain the same. It is important, therefore, to provide a simple, yet eflective,
system of monitoring which can be readily transferred between agencies when the
situation demands.
This approach demands, at the earliest moment, an effective, open and
harmonious systems of liaison between a number of different bodies, and groups.
Without this effective inter-action the benefits of the project become neutralised by
ignorance or indifference, and a negative perception of the gains made by the
investment can develop in the public mind.
Such a programme must operate within the legal, cultural and institutional
frameworks that exist in Bangladesh. Given the urgency placed on the Priority
Works, in respect of the natural negative consequences if they are not executed.
it is not appropriate that the environmental monitoringtaction plan be based on the
existing situation. The plan has to be flexible and capable of initiating and
executing changes by local institutions and groups. if necessary, in the future.
5.2         Liison
For the full project benefits to be realized, a system of liaison between institutions
and groups should be set up and maintained. Such liaison will allow all interested
parties to become aware of the progress of the project; allow project decisions to
respond to local interests and concems as they may occur; provide greater public
confidence in the purpose of the project; and ensure the efficient and economic
execution of the works.
The BWD  vwill bear the responsibility for developing the system of liaison in
coniunction with the Deputy Commissioners and local authorities. particularly within
the localities of the project sites. The Engineer will have an important pait to play
layer in this aspect, and the actual functioning of the system will reflect his
judgments on frequency, type and inputs into the liaison process.
Uaison will be required between local administration, other public institutions and
utilities, and local public interest groups: all of which will require different degrees
of inter-action with the project.
At the national level the FPCO and BWDB will continue to maintain an on-going
exchange of information with the national bodies regulating sectors affected by the
project, together with the donor agencies and intemational agencies.
5.1



There are a number ot actions that can be taken in this consultation process, ana
the use of any. or any combination, will depend on the situation at any perid in
time.
Direct consunation with affected individuals. households and land owners are
needed when land acquisition or displacement activities are planned. This
consultation shoulo include group and public meetings. as well as consultations
with affected individuals. It is important to include in the consultation process all
persons that might be affected in the localities, not merely the persons whose land
or homes are to be acquired.
As a part of the consultation process. surveys of interest groups should be
undertaken, particularly when a project activity has indicated a possible impact
(positive or negative). These may be household or sector groups. To provide data
for tuture decision making. tollow-up surveys of these same groups should be
undertaken to determine public opinion on the success of the operation.
In particular relation to the project sites. the impact of project phases on artisanal
fishermen in both Siraiganj and Sariakandi/Ma:hurapara should be undertaken.
5.5         Monitoring
it has been shown that the project will not significantly impact on natural resources
or sensitive ecological zones, but may provide local changes that need to be taken
account of in river and floodplain management programmes. which tall within the
remit of other projects under the Flood Action Plan (FAP).
There are no authorities that. at present. have the institutional capabi:ities or
resources, at a local level, to monitor environmental change. or adequately provide
a record of envronmental and social change at this time. Accordingly a method
must be found whereby some records can be 'resented at regular intervals to
allow for independent scrutiny and evaluation of any on-going negative impacts.
It is proposed that the BWDB take on the responsibility for assessing these
impacts during the course ot the project for reporting on these aspects of the work.
After completion of the project the BWDB may continue the process of monitoring
or may mutually agree to pass this task over to a national or local body which
may. by then, be able to take on this role.
Following completion of the works responsibility for monitoring will be vested in the
specialist BWDS O&M Unit that it has been proposed will be establisted during the
construction phase. The personnel for this Unit will have been provided with
training by the Contractor and others. Until the formation of this Uni. the BWDB
Executive Engineer for each area Should be given the responsibility of ensuring
the recording of the observed social and environmental changes. and reporting at
six-monthly intervals (November and May) on these changes. In this regard the
intormation supplied by the system of liaison that would set up in the local
communities will be very important.
Specifically the the record shoulc contain monthly observations on the following:
(a)       any squatter or other persons moved from the area to allow works to
proceed. This information should record number o1 families affected:
5-3



consultation and teedabck in to the design procedure. At Sarikandi/Mathurapara
alignments will be set. as far as possible, to aviod dwellings and major human
disruption.
Contractor's land acquisition and site development
World Bank approved ICB contract procedures will be followed to ensure minimal
disruption and nuisance in contractor's site development, including a requirement
for adequate consultation on site selection.
Collection and stockpiling of materials
The controls applying to the manufacture of bricks (see Section 421) will be
strictly entorced. The main civil works contractor will be required to ensure
adequate safety and security measures, and to minimise nuisance under the terms
of the 1CS contract.
Transport of materials
The Contractor will be responsible under the terms of his contract for ensuring that
his use of road and water transport causes the minimum degree of congestion and
nuisance and that all necessary action is taken to ensure that the interests of other
users are adequately protected. In addition, prior consultation with the local
authorities anC with residents and businesses along altemative routes will be
undertaken to facilitate this process. The importance attached to the Contractor's
oDmpliance with the contract conditions should be stressed at the Pre-Bid
Conference, held during the tender period. that all tenderers will be obliged to
attend.
Precasting of Cement Concrete Blocks
The conditions and specification forming part of the ICB contract will be enforced
through the powers vested inthe Engineer to ensure that this activity is undertaken
in a safe manner, and that all nuisance and pollution is kept to a minimum.
Movement and re-settement of families
Full consultabon with the local authorities. the affected communities. and families
will be undertaken. NGO's will be invited to participate in this process and to assist
in reducing the impact of resettlement. The Contractor will be required to provide
suitable temporary land, install or arrange the necessary water and sanitation
services for the settlement site, and assist both with the transfer of the housing to
the temporary area and its return and erection to the original location on
completion of the works.
Dredging and hydraulic fill works
The conditions and specification forming part of the ICB contract will be enforced
through the powers vested in the Engineer to ensure that this activity is
undertaken in a safe manner and such that the interference with fisheries and
navigation is kept to a minimum. Close liason will be maintained with the BIWTA
and the MOF so tnat tne timing and scope ot operations may as far as practicable
be arranged to minimise impact. given due consideration to the strict limitations set
5.5



6           ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION METHODOLOGY
6.1         Introduction
The assessment of the impacts of the project has relied on the results of the river
morphology studies. the engineenng design and strategy studies. and tne BRE
Inventory for primary data. Much ot the environmental and social data has been
obtained from secondary sources, mainly from other FAP programmes. Field visits
have been made on a number of occasions at various times in the project, to
obtain views of local individuals and organisations. as well as to confirm
impressions by direct observation and inspection in the field.
The environmental assessment has identiiied the important environment factors
within the project area and, with respect top these, assessed the impacts of
project activities on a without and with project basis. For each of these
components a score was determined, which provided a measure of the
beneWdis-benefft of the activity on the component.
To ensure that the evaluation complied with the FPCO multi- criteria analysis scale
of  3. a conversion was derived by which the project assessment score could be
confidently translated to the + 3 scale. These values were recorded in an impact
matrix (Table 6.1).
The change in impact from a without-project to a with-project situation has been
quantified in each case, and the changes recorded in a second matrix (Table 6.2).
A third matrix summarizes the negative impacts and the possible mitigation
measures that could be employed in each case (Table 6.3). These three matrices
thus provide a sequential summary of the environmental conditions. impacts
(positivelnegative) and possible mitigation for negative suations under the with-
project conditions.
6.2         Discussion: project impact asessment
In conducting any impact assessment where reliance has to be placed on
incomplete secondary data, and where no possibility exists tor independent
confirmation. or for primary data collection. assessment will tend to be subjective.
This subjectivity can provide a competent anatysis of the probable changes and
effects. but suffers in that it is neither reproducible or transparent.
Where qualitative evaluation of impacts has to be made, it is important that these
evaluations should conform to a defined system of analysis. EIAAEE evaluations
need to be re-assessed with the passage of time. and the data contained therein
should be open to scrutiny and revision as new data becomes available.
Whaolly subjective and descriptive systems are not capable of such revision.
cependent as they are on the expertise and experience of the original assessors
and on the quality of the descriptive record left behind.
To provide some degree of transparency and objectivity in the qualitative
assessment and evaluation of the impacts on this project. a system of sconng has
been designed. to allow sublective judgments to be quantitatively recorded. This
6.1



6.3.2       Scales
The scale of ES scores will vary with the number of Group (A) and (B) critena
applied and also i the scales for each criteria vary. The advantages of using
different criteria scales are that the sensitivity can be vaned for each cnterion. and
that weighting can be applied directly in the assessment process. As the crieria
and the scales are defined, this process is wholly transparent. The system also
allows a 'what t..." condition to be appiied by varying tne weighting given.
particularly with respect to value criteria (Group (9)).
Benefit and dis-benefit can be obtained by using scales that pass from negative
to positive values through zero. Zero thus becomes me no-change- or
.no-importance' value. The use of zero in this way in group (a) criteria. allows a
single criteria to isolate conditions which show no cnange or are unimportant to the
analysis.
Zero is a value to be avoided in the Group (B) criteria. If all Group (B) criteria
score zero, the linal result of the ES score wall also be zero. This condition may
occur even where the Group (A) criteria show that the condition of importance and
should be recognised. To avoid this, scales for Group (B) criteria should use (1)
as the 'no-change/no-importance' score.
6.3.3       Criteria used
The criteria used in this assessment comprise two under Group (A) and three
under Group (B):
GROUP (A)
IMPORTANCE OF CONDmON (Al)
A measure of the imoortance of the condition, and is assessed against the spatial
boundaries it wil affect The scales are defined:
4 = important to nationalfintemational interests
3 = important to regional/national interests
2 = important to areas immediately outside the local
condition
1 = important only to the local condition
0 = no importance
MAGNITUDE OF CHANGE/EFFECT (A2)
Magnitude is defined as a measure of the scale ot benefiUdis-benefit of an impact
or a condition:
+3 = major positive benefit
+2 = significant improvement in status quo
+1 = improvement in st2tus quo
O = no change/status quo
-3 = negative change to status quo
-2 = signfficant negative dis-benefit or change
-3 = major dis-benefit or change
6.3



ol no importance or represents the status quo. or a no cnange.
situation.
A condition that is outside local boundaries in importance (A2=2). and
shows significant cnange (A2=2) is considered 0o be tne point wnen
a band separation should occur. The value condtion should be one
of a temporary. reversible, non-cumulative (bT=6). the condition has
a score ES=24. and this score is taken as the lower limi'. of the
second (+/-2) band.
The distinction between the second/third bands can be set by a
regional/national condition (Al=3) that undergoes a major change
(A2=3). of a temporary, reversible. non-cum ulative nature (bT=6). The
conditions scores ES=54. and this score becomes the lower limit of
band +/-3.
The ranges and their FAP bands can be summarized:
Evaiuation           FAP
Score (ES)        guideline value
range
+54 to +108          +3
+24 to +53           +2
+1 to +23           +1
0                 0
-1 to -23           -1
-24 to -53           -2
-54 to -108          -3
6.4         Environmental components
To use the evaluation system described. a matrix was produced tor each project
site. setting out all project activities, and possible sectors of impact, against tour
environmental components (each having a without/with project column). The four
components used have been defined in Section 1.4.3.
6.5



7          INFORMATION SOURCES
The main information sources came from a large number of published reports. survey
work undertaken dunng the project, discussions with local people and with specialists in
related FAP projects, as well as other experts. The following are the main reports and
organizationsfindividuals who have provide data to ine projeci
7.1        References
AHMED. M..
"Bangladesh agricuture - Towards self-sufficiency'
Extemal Publicity Wing. Min. of Information. Dhaka. 1988
BANGLADESH BUREAU OF STATISTICS 'Statistical yearbook of Bangladesh' 1989
BANGLADESH BUREAU OF STATISTICS "Statistical yearbook of Bangladesh" 1991
BANGLADESH BUREAU OF STATISTICS "Yearbook of agncultural- statistics of
Bangladesh 1987-1988"
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD "Evaluation study of BRE sub-project
under DFC-1"
Dept. of Economics. Univ. ot Dhaka. August 1986
CHOWDHURY, M.Y.. "Environmental pollution of river waters" Int. Symposium on
Env.Poll.Cont., Dhaka. June 1990
CHOWDHURY. M,Y., 'Environment and agro-wastes management"
Proc. 13th. Ann. Chem. Soc.. Dhaka, March 1989
GARGAS. E & CHOWDHURY, M.Y..
"Preliminary assessment of the environmental impacts connected with the implementation
of altemative strategies of the Brahmaputra River Training Studies". Sir William Halcrow
& Partners. Swindon. UK July 1991.
HALCROW, SIR WIWAM & PARTNERS
"River Training Studies of the Brahmaputra River: Inception Report", Bangladesh Water
Development Board, May 1990.
HALCROW, SIR WILWAM & PARTNERS
"River Training Studies of the Brahmaputra River Second lntenm Report - Main Report".
Bangladesh Water Development Board, December 1991
HALCROW, SIR WILUAM & PARTNERS
"River Training Studies of the Brahmaputra River: Second Interim Report - Annex 6:
Economic Assessment". Bangladesh Water Development Board. December 1991.
7.1



SPACE RESEARCH & REMOTE SENSING ORGANIZATION (SPARRSO)
"Open Water Capture Fishery Resources". Technical Report No: 16. Master Plan
Organization, Ministry of Irrigation. Water Development & Flood Control, Bangladesh.
1985.
SPACE RESEARCH & REMOTE SENSING ORGANIZATION (SPARRSO)
"Ftsheries and flood control, drainage and irrigation developmenr,  Technical Report
No:17. Master Plan Organzation, Ministry of Irrigation. Water Development & Flood
Control, Bangladesh. 1985.
SP"tCE RESEARCH & REMOTE SENSING ORGANIZATION4 (SPARRSO)
"Close Water Culture Fishery Resources". Technical Report No:19. Master Plan
Organization, Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development & Flood Control. Bangladesh.
1986.
Organisations & Individuals
Bangladesh Water Development Board
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
Bangladesh Standards & Testing Institute. Dhaka
Dept. of the Environment. Ministry of Environment & Forestry
Dept. of Fishenes. Ministry of Fisheries & Uvestock
Dept. of Forestry, Ministry of Environment & Forestry
Depts. of Chemistry & Soil Science. Univ. of Dhaka
Flood Action Plan Project Specialists
Local government officials, professionals and townspeople in:
Kazipur
Betil
Sariakandi
Fulchariaghat
Siraiganj
Mathurapara
7.3



Table 1.1      Overall' Erosion Rates for the Period 1951-89
Right Bank
Reaches         Distances            Year          Annual Mean
Erosion Rate
(km)                               (m/y)
R-1                  29.50        1953-89               130.00
R-2                   9.50        1953-89                16.92
R-3                  13.00        1953-89                58.18
R-4                   5.50        1953-89               -10.58
R-5                  18.50        1953-89                59.21
R-6                   9.50       1953-89                 22.61
R-7                  23.50       1956-89                 94.04
R-7                   5.00       1956-89                 86.74
R-8                  25.50       1956-89                16A.97
R-9                   4.00       1956-89                 39.26
R-9                  20.50       1956-89                  9.39
R-10                   7.50        1956-89               166.43
R-10                  10.50        1956-89               221.38
R-11                   6.00        1956-89               139.42
R-11                   5.50        1956-89                75.5A
Left Bank
Reaches         Distances            Year          Annual Mean
Erosion Rate
(km)                               (m/y)
R-1                  29.50       1957-89                -29.23
R-2                   9.50       1953-89                 11.28
R-3                  13.00       1953-89               -40.75
R-4                   5.50        1953-89                 1.73
R-5                  18.50       1953-89                 65.57
R-6                   9.50        1953-89                -8.36
R-7                  23.50        1956-89               -16.55
R-7                   5.00        1954-89              -106.90
R-8                  25.50        1954-89               -11.07
R-9                   4.00        195A-89                73.04
R-9                  20.50        1951-89               -36.59
R-10                   7.50        1951-89               -57.55
R-10                  10.50        1954-89               -17.59
R-11                   6.00        195A-89              -184.28
R-11                   5.50        1954-89                -4.05



Table 1.2    Expected Land Loss and Population Displacement over the Next Five Years
Pnorrty Location  Total Area of Eroded  Total Economic   Number of People Displaced by
Land over the next 5  Value ('000 Tk.)
years (hectares)                  Bank Erosion   Flooding in
Severely Affected
Area
Fulchan                      250          38.200       12.250             3.600
Shariakandi                  300          S3.000       17.700             8,700
Mathurapara                  500         63,125         7,950             5,000
Kazipur                      250         40,175        11.320             7,600
Sirajganj                    375         168,750      125.000            31.000
Betil                        250         52.500        10.000             8,800



Table 2.1 Summary ot Data Collection Dunng River Surveys
Item                                   Ouantity         Unit
Level Traverses For Bench Marks        190              km
Level Traverses For Topographic
Surveys          80              km
Plane Table Surveys                    330              ha
Bankline Surveys                       15               km
Bankline MovementSurveys               25               km
Bathymetry Traverses (Test Area 1)     270              km
Bathymetry Traverses (Test Area 2)     150              km
Bathymetry Traverses (Priorty Sites)   165              km
Velocity Readings                      231              No
Float Tracking Traverses               40               km
Suspended Sediment Readings            378              No
Dune Tracking                          120             km
Bed Samples                            102              No



TABLE 3.1
Annual rainfall at sele zted stations of Bangladesh (mm)
Nme of . S .m.       1979   1980   1991   192m          1963   19   1985    1986    1987   198    1X89
Bogr                 2Z25   1630   1756   1229   1778   1629   1708   2146    1941   2185   1734
O'nur                  .       .     1960   1197   t934   2068   2094    1983   2925   2144   1927
Ishwdn               1276   1456   2252   1282   1635   1545   1179    1484   1607   1116   1430
RPAhsh               1767   1576   2136   1090   1633   1742   1249    1516    1515   1963   1318
irgpwx               2038   2120            1 1993   2Z73   3523   2872   2310   3242   2497   1878
s&cdur                 .       .       .                            1874    1927   1981   2137   1618
S     :         _h M           Depwns



TABLE 3.2
Monthly Rainfall in mm dunng '989
Lam17m       J    F   M        A      M      J      J     A      S      O           D    ToaqPALMJ
Bove        00   1i   02    04    482   229   605   102   22   28    D0    04    1734
|m R    -  07    18   02    0        335   219   719   110   414   48    04    02    1878
.h  04   0_   05    02    224   190   350   117    32   78    00    09    1318



TABLE 3.5
RESULTS OF DIFFERENT PARAMETERS OF 6 WATER SAMPLES
(Results have been expressed In PPM  except pH & EC   Value)
Lob    Station/    Location      Sample     Vate                 EC-       Free                                                           Total
Si     Hola No    (U Z. I        Collec.    of          pH       Value    co,    CO,   HCO,    80o            a         o        M        Hades   Fe          TDS
No                 Distet       lion Depl   Cdlecilon            pmrhos/                                                                  as CaCO,
cm
1        2            3            4           5         6        7 I               9       10       It       12        13       14         15        16     17
I    SO/I        D L ligh      59 1.       13.3 91     7.81    445       4.99     NT     233.63    8.33     2733      30500     1 5.56    143 19    3.1    238
School       5011i
2    BTUI        Boutil                    22.391      7.98    624       2826      .      564.86    12.25    17593    61.00    3480    2951        .        378
3    KPII        Kazpwut                   28.3 91     7.63    203       11.28            122.00    36.75    168 9    23 60     5 40    81.15       3 3     152
4    SKjI        Ssiltslwvd      *         4.4.91      7.45     475      14.98            192.76    12.25    46.11    42.60     12.60    156.25     0 24    370
S    KNI         Kearrajenl       _        23.4.91     7.20    292       13.40            199.10    7.35    26 33    27D60      2088a   154.39      0 54    330
6    FC/I        F/deiarl         _        ?D.4 91     7.30    414       14.62    .       242.65   4.90     24.35     31.60     29 15    199.45     0 e0    281
FC/I                   I_____
NOTE  1.  N T . Not Iracenblo
2.  Tho toes tosulits otr pH EC.Value & TD9 ol samptebeab   Nhoe   SO1i hve urdteedy boenentn ide this altie Meno No W-19191/RRUSdU993 dated 6.4 91 (RapI No CHEM.319l,
buA tor Information which again shown In this Table abngwlh olW pwwmnoters.
3.  Fe lost at the sample Ertl ood nd dane as saclfled ample was not suppled.



TABlE 3.6
RESULTS OF DIFFERENT PARAMFTERS OF 5 RIVER
WATER SAMPLES TAKEN SOIMI OF SIRAJGANJ
ON 24 APRIL 1992
TESTING RY RRI, FARIDPUR
SI.No   Bottle No   Carbonate   Bi-Carbonate   Su lphate   Ch loride         Total    Calcium   Magnesium   Iron
llardness
I          2            3             4             5           6            7         8           9         10
1       Al nRTS        N.T          18.69           9.80       13.91       72.19      21.00       4.80      0.40
2       B2 ORTS        N.T          17.30           9.82       15.90        69.78     23.00       3.00      0.28
3       C3 nRTS        N.T          17.30           7.35       21.17       64.81      22.00.      2.40      0.32
4       D.'s URTS      N.T          18.00           4.90       19.18        89.64     27.00       5.40      0.36
5       E5 nRTS       N.T          18.04           7.38       19.11       64.86      24.00       1.20      0.41
Note: N.T = Not traceable.



Table 4.1:    Major Materials Resources Requirements (Indicative only)
Pnority Works
DESCRIPTION                           UNIT               QUANIITY
Sanakandi   aviathurapara  Siraiganl
REVETMENT WITH BRICK
AGGREGATE BLOCKS
Cement                               tonne        18.516       15.508      67.148
Geotexliles                          sq.m        92.263       110.379     298.763
Bamboo                               lin. m     132.059        63.751     422.034
Bricics                               no.     28.476.417   22.612.547  101.039.235
Sand                                 tonne       59.534        49.861     215.400
Brncks fuel required (wood)          tonne       16.232        12.889      57.593
Bricks luel required (coal)          tonne        6.550         5.201      23.240
Bamboos (1 om plants)                 no.        13.206        6.375       4Z.204
REVETMENT WITH STONE
AGGREGATE BLOCKS
Cement                               tonne        17.915       14.769      63.699
Geotextiles                          sq.m        9Z263        110.379     298.763
Bamboo                               lin.m      132.059        63.751     42Z034
Brcks                                 no.      3.823.507    1.965.165   11.635.929
Stone aggregate                      tonne       114.313       94.238     406.460
Sand                                 tonne       57.550        47.444     204.630
Bricks: fuel required (wood)         tonne       2179          1.120       6,633
Bricks fuel required (coul)          tonne          879          452       2676
Bamboos (1 Om plants)                 no.        13.206         6,375      4Z204
REVETMENT WITH DUMPED ROCK
AND FALLING APRON
Dumped rock                          tonne       183.340      149.603     619.248
Geotextiles                           sq.m        92.263      110.379     298.763
Bamboo                                lin.m      13Y.059       63.751     422.034
Bricks                                no.      3.823.507    1.965.165   11.635.929
Bricks fuel required (wood)          tonne        2.179         1.120       6.633
Bricks: fuel required (coal          tonne          879          452        2.676
Bamboos (10m plants)                  no.         13.206        6.375      42.204



Table 6.1:    Evaluation of Envronmental Changes
PHYSICALJ            ECOLOGICAL      SOCIOLOGICALI    ECONOMIC
CHEMICAL                             CULTURAL
Without   Wth      Wdthout   Wth     Without   With      Without   With
projec    project   profec    proarct   project    project   proqea  project
PRE-CONSTRuCTION PHASE
Land.acquisition               0        0         0        0         0                   0
Hydraulic fill ot groyne-town                     0
area
Cortractors land acquisilion  .0        0         0        0         0                 0
Manutacture of brncs (coal     0        .0 .                                            0
firing)                                                                                  __
Manutacture of brcs (timber    0        .         _                            0         0 0
firing)
Collection/stoccpling of       O        0         0        0         0                  0 0       4
matenals
Transpon of matenals & block-  0        0         0                  0                   0
maldng on site
Removal d souaner tamilies     0        0   1   0          0                                           |0
CONSTRUCTlON PHASE
Constnction norh termnatinon   -                  0        0         0 |                0
& new embankmenrt
Hydraulic fil of new secion         | -                              0         0        0
Completion of town revetments  0                  0        -0                  +        0
Clearing of ste                0        0         0        *0                           *
POST-CONSTRUCTlON
PHASE
Operation and manterience           J   *     ]                1                              | 
LONG-TERM IMPACTS_
Town area                      -        *         -        * |    |                      0   r
Agriculture (ibca)             0         O0                0         0    O              0
isheries f(ozl)                0        0                   -        0         *         0 o
Water sanitaton & public       0         0        0        0         0         D         0         0
heatth                                                                               _________
-- I   o             I   o         o              I _       I
Agriculture (general)          0        0         0        0         0         0         0         0
ishenes (generaq               0        0    |                      0         0         0         0



PHYSICAU           ECOLOGICAL    SOCIOLOGICAU          ECONOMIC
SARUUKANDUI                  CHEMICAL                        CULTURAL
UATHURAPARA
WioLu W Wi        ithtu W   ihout wh WiWh           WMtO     With
p_o____ _prq ct jec   proct   prolmat  project   project  p jqecI prol
PRE-CONSTRUCTION PHASE
_T    o   T    0
.ttwnclor m                  oqLn  1    0     0        0                         -0
Manfumure ofcs hclc. oa      0                                 0                 0
Mmidecupe ofbmcsfljnbw       0                -       -        0 _               0
Culigwftlogiango d           0       0        0        0       0        =        0
Trwumof matwnWs bkxck-                       0        -       0 O               0
CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Conarucon of HatpJns &p      ,
cross-bw                                                                         0
HydrIAaclotn.w  Ncton    I    -                                0        0        0
Comnpsbonod tiN              a                0        -       0        *        0
Cmwnt d sw                   0 
POST-CONSTRUCTON
PHASEI
Opuntonandmumnae   T            .                      -        -            I   -
LONG-TERM IMPACTS
Towni.r                              * a rOa                                     0
Agnuc&eitre(Iclr                  |  *        0        O        O                O
Frhen  o(1111                0       0                          0       .        0        0
wow. WiItfbW&apIAic0   0                  0        0       0        0            0        0
AgLftue(goenandl             0   0        0        0       0        0            0        0
Fuhosen(genvwi               0        0-                        0        0       0        0
Uw ofborrow p.ts-                                              .*0



Table 6.2:    Matrnc of Environmental Change
(Changes between Without/With Project)
SIRAJGANJ               PHYSICA/  | ECOLOGICAL    SOCIOLOGICALI  ECONOMIC
CHEMICAL  _                   CULTURAL
PRE-CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Land acquisition                                            -(P)            + (P)
Hydraulic fill of groyne-                 - T)                             .. (P)
town area
Contractors land                                            + M             + (T)
acquisition
Manufacture of bricks        (P)          - (T)             + M             + (T)
(coal tring)
Manufacture of bricks
(timber firing)             (P)            (P)              + (T)           + MT)
Collection stockpiling of
materials                                                   +(T) M            M
Transport of materials &
block-making on site                        (T)             - (T)           + m
Removal of squatter                                        -m               -CT)
tamilies
CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Construction north
termination & new                                           + M               M
embankment
Hydraulrc till of new                                                       + M)
section
Completion of town         -()              m               + M                
revetments
Cleaing of site                           .(P)              +(P)
POST-CONSTRUCtION PHASE
Operation and                                              ++ (P)          ++ (P)
Maintenance
LONG-TERM IMPACTS
Town area                  ++ (P)          .(P)            .+(P)        _
Agn cuture Qocao                           + (P)              (P)           + (P)
Fishenes (local)       _             _                       (P)
Notes:
(r) = Temporary change      = positive change
(P) = Pernanent change    - = negative change



SARIAKANDI/           I PHYSICALU    ECOLOGICAL    SOCIOLOGI CAL/   ECONOMIC
MATHURAPARA            CHEMICAL _                     CULTURAL
PRE-CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Land acquistion                           ++ (P)           ++ (P)
Contracor's land                 _+(T) M                                      M
acquisition                              .
Manufacture of bncks       - ()           -                    M (T)
(coal liring)
Manuacture of bncks
(timber firing)            -(P)           -(P)             +(T)             + ()
Collection/ stockpiing of
materials                                                  +  )             +M 
Transport of materials &
block-making on site                      -                 - (T)           + (M)
CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Hard points and cross-                    - (T)            + (T)            + M
bars
Hydraulic fill of new                                                       + (T)
section
Completion of              - (T)          -                 + M()           + M
revetments
Clearing of site        _                   (P)____              __
POST-CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Operation and                    _++ (P)                               | _        (P)
Maintenance                        .
LONG-TERM IMPACTS
Town area        |           (P)      |    (P)       |        (P)          4 (P)
Agnculture Oocai)          +         __ _ _                 .(P)       T     (P)
Fisheries (ocai)       _             __|_+ _   _
Use of borrow pits      _             .               ___ (P)            T
Notes
(r) = Temporary change    . = positive cnange
(P) = Permanent change    - = negative change



Table 6.3:    Matrix ot Mitigations Measures
(Negatve Cnanges between wgtnoLtflith Project)
SIRAJGANJ             | PHYSICAU    ECOLOGICAL    SOCIOLOGICALI   ECONOMIC
I CHEMICAL                     CULTURAL          _
PRE-CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Land acquisition                                            ICB
Hydraulic fill of groyne-               (ICB) (TP)
town area
Contractor's land
acquisition
Manufacture of bncks       (NM)           (NM)
(coal firing)
Manutacture of bricks      (NM)           (NM)
(timber firing)
Transport of materials &                  (ICB)            (ICB)
block-making on site
Removal of squatter                                                        (NM)
families
CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Construction north
termination & new                         (ICs)
embakment
Hydraulic fill of new
section
Completion of town         (CB)           (ICS)
revetments
Notes:
(rP)  = Temporary condition during project life
(NM) = No mitigation
ICB) = mitigation required as ICB contract conditions
enforced by intemational supervision



SARIAKANDI/           | PHYSICAL   | ECOLOGICAL    SOCIOLOGICALI     ECONOMIC
MATHURAPARA           | CHEMICAL   | _|_CULTURAL                        l    _l
PRE-CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Manutacture of bncks       (NM)            (NM)
(coal tiring)                         _
Manudacture of bricks      (NM)            (NM)
(Umber firing)
Transpon of materias &
block-making on site                       (ICB)            (ICB)
CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Hard poirits and cross-  J                 (ICB)
bars                    _   _   _     _ _   _    _     _ _   _   _    _  _   _     _
Completion of revetments   (ICB)           (ICB)
Notes:
(NM) = no mitigation
pCB)  = mitigation required as ICS contract conditons
enforced by international supervision



*                       --i
\R~~~~~ I
-           z~~~~~tudy    f!                w 
Kamarjani .             
o,~~~~~~~~~~~~-                       I -                        I 
.-    X   '              jf X 
Lhimt     f                 ga
;.S,t, Jtudy  -u
,.. .
.1'*, ~ 1



Sar   nd'
Mat hura,pra
Chandanboisa                .   9
- \   -  ~Kazipurs:                    i
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
|        ,             '              V 2              iagannlothgonj
5i'mi c 
Al ~.                  ,        .        X             X 
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .    /       
Sirl   J.
.   =,     /                  ~~~~~ ~      ~ ~~Betilpt  
4 .       .~Jalipu; O.               I'u
-~ I i '.> ., (ro



I o               I                           ...                                  -                            -  
_!.41      ..SiroiaanV.
.M ID    ~^ -                        S/WBuapur
.,                    -Betil,)
"Jobipur,,
C', ~  ~      I.
/=              *    I   l r            JI
T      '   \   t>          >  /         2   (                               |       _~~~V'-5
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Betil  (~~~~~~~Aceto
t-+.udy    k             ,4aI
-1 10000T-1
_                           ~~~-4   /             ,                               _ 
^                         ' I        \    i               3       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Right bankc Eros.n
<      *^rE      moo              t;        t     ^             1 ~~~~~~ Left bank Erosion|
_                             Ttpop
A>E    * 1  Line no Date Df  Venta ,
19S51    1953-54
U'1*                 '_               ___           ~                   *2    i95 - 953 1t95457_
_RI5 ;78VER                                           em_ line from 19e9
a 0 .                                                                                                      1
_ L   rg _                                               .  .



j
BAIKAi  f                               |     440V /
IHU8AR'~ .I  /:  -/                                        ''
I W  f..^., M \ ......p..,.,.                        /              *1.
GOTIA~~~~~~~~~~~I
7 / [ _'~~~~~~ propos d 
t    a        t        s~~~~~hr pit
' I     a          ' C,...,   \ 
A    C.,      4       If,' ;                 
ROAD            "          - ' 1 ' t^41          *s-Q . 
_~~~~~ ~  _
KEY'  Amel                                       .; u4w;2.2
hard p   hardints
50*~~~us35
Future  Works. at Fulchari~~~~~~~~~~~
w~~~~.w.4                   Fiurj:.



~~~~I .;                                I,                               .}...n. -- 
(rachcaui 5 m
.      X>    __    {/~~~~~~ >        ;||w;aUEEnI  *                                             Is^F  _             -
|d*             - i       JO .rammI wI                                                   0t3 via
-     Ipio ma r,m'r.o r,i                            p   t
110011 NK   ProP    t
''~~~~~~~0  agon                                                      hard  p       P-
%                                       A .L A MP U R                                    9
KE'r                                                |KELij
sF trWkt Kzi pur
KE/   "                             1~ I' LF                                             :2
~C4*rwt_*          u...                 1r                  \\        
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l~~~~~~gr 25



lAs'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
_< ' \ \ {E~~~~~~~PasetmI
'IW  -<- 
I    -~~~~M 
NAuOGAIJA                    \            xA
Kalg Gr jyn       Hard point
f      .   eanirednfo \f d
Q X;    9                   X              _ ~~~~~~~~~~~Psibl futulrel
_ -                                 hard point
N    -;~~~~-
Priority and Future Works at Scriakcndi and Mathurapara
I Figure .. 2. 4l



31. v6              1
n.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
=NI                          Proposed tee t.:rd
^ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~~~~~~~ \'\ .;   e,,tn Soilabar
%amm                      \            f            l/obe provided for
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xsw S Xil..bari 
Groyne
Upstream termination
\    %L              ~~~~~~incorporating
,,uk~ rO    S I  Gutrc Ranigram Groyne
tk 'N            N   \    '.~//-\   >\ \ W-yd-/v;New reuelment to
~~   '~~i-   ~~     repiace ex.stsng
/             .,                   revetmeni
3  o \RAJGANNJ 4%~Phase I
N            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
|    _   ,5 o                       \\  g\  \ S42 )  ~~~~~~~~Downstream
CHANOIGANTI                       W:fAlout .                 I * termination
7                                             .e  \\2&\Xy                 =JM   '~ 
I~~~~~~~&T
Q  ,  ,,        Z       ,''\  WitrzrJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vmut N
uE'l                                          "          '5 \
flop.r I.e.*di DXOn... *nO      '              '         - 
. -t 0.  Approx. i of
= C .....q c_r-a_. *f s-r ..........- .....' 'a;  i.~  * ;. (  proDoaeC Jomuno
~~-~- ^syE~~~^e;~ff       K  < e~~eZ    i   x       8ridge
____ ."_ ....... ~~~~'    ;Fv\\X r
4                            ;9~~~~~~~~m'!  ,        '         \X\ u  .u 
Priority and Future Works at Sirajgonj
a                                                          | ~~~~~~~~~~~~Figure: 2.5



l~~~~~~~ b                                    -
jw / Sanoq  b@|fl,:{ -, 
0- .9~ ..,               ...          v
I f    wi "-f(0/".X~~~~~~~~f 
1    sNl<a 7.K NP
/e   "10@0 \so \-Iew     >S~ 
,.:t_   all a         'C  I     ''o'    {
'3//                                                   (CtW- 
0             2-      ,0 m >, r-   ~  
-  0GE'SftdIo      - PtOPO.  F'..*
Xe-6 I."  I'o-  './;\"       1 - 
,/1111   0t    2.       JN *   I   
___*f  lOW ft*...   n   '990  jAL. /
Future Works iat BNetil
| f24ure *.2G



; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-J
- -~~~~-
I~~~~~~~~ I  I 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~



KEY:
! L.                               H -Old Himclayan Piedmont Plain
T!  Teesta Flood Plain
BT-Barind Tract
s  Erohmaputro Flood Picin
f                         ~~~~~~~~~~KB-Karofoya/BongaIi Flood Plain
-S    S A. 0                SPll 
H       /
I~~~~~~~~~~~II
1          I                       ~~~~~~~~STUDY
K ~~K
'I~~~~~I
Teesta, Jamuno and Karotoya - Bongali Flood Plains



1. I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.                                 2_            1
%~~~~~~~~~~    cfl



Scrickond 
Mothurniaro
Chandanbaisa
-L                  --            lN                                          m
^. - - ~ Kazipur-
/ Jagannathgonj
ghot
_Sirmjganjo 7
-  j   g  Bhuapur   q   1
~~~z/      ~~~Betillt41
;"J -iraljpurgj
'_;'------'' ;BhuaAuX
'~   s'~*-'}  I.



'30'                              2415'                                3400'                                23045'
.J.?~                       I            ,I                                       I'< Il
C-
32 4s
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V5
I I I I ........ .. , F                                     Location Pla  fo BR E a    199   Bn  Lin
eDO                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~240el5
.  ..~    I.Figure  2.1



r   ---                                    -                -l
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..,. 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
*        ~~- Z
CY
*  0            N 40                40           C
!- Q i t  -;'-                   
(aMd t) BvIS
U~~~~     .
Tvpical River Cross-sectlon showing Upper and Lower Char top Levels
|                                                Figure 3.3



aoo T         _ANNUAL FISH CATCHES
1>                       -/l                    X 7122-
I           6244         damunu  River
C')  ~ 0 5307
:r ~~ X4469\
co
2
0  3611-
C-    7z~1
o         - 2733
:                        B Xogra District
io          1856                \
(A a)8 -agoIisrc
0
*              ~~~~~~oo'
(uJ    (0                     63/84           64/65                   YE/AR    86/8              8a7/88           88/69
_YEARS



FISH-SPAWN CATCHES (RIGHT BANK)
21~~~0
c_~~~c
aa,          ,  20
I-
m  tD                 ~~~~~~Fulcharl 
a)O                         Kazipur t-     -vw"                                                       __ 
Z & oXo ~~~~Sarikandi __
0.0
bt  {D               t9s6                        Is8~~~~~~~~~~l9r  YE ARS   I99                         989
.  _                              _   _   _ 



AREAS AFFECTED BY LOWERING OF SEASONAL
WATER TABLE BELOW 7-75m (SUCTION
LIMIT) TO CURRENT DEVELOPMENT
Source: UNICEF 1987.    Scale 1:1250000
Areas Affected by Lowering of Seasonal Water Table
Figure 3.6



2000m.
SOURCE POSITION
1000m..                                                           200m.
FROM BANK
Om.- *                    
0           1000         2000         3000          4000m
2000m.
SOURCE POSITION
1000 m.                                                           500m.
FROM BANK
CONCEPNTRATtON
IN mng/t
Om.-                                                             M    Abve 50-0
O           1000         2000          3000         4C00C    M   10 I-50-0
5-0 -10-0
2000m._                                                       _          1-0 -5-0
0-5 1-0e
z  Bslow 0-1
SOURCE POSITION
I000n.-                                                          '00Cm.
FROM BANK
Om.-
0           100O         2000          3000         4000M.
ASSUMPTIONS'                                   Channel cross - section
Discharge: Continuous single point discharge, rats  Rectonquar, Width 2000m, Depth Om.
60/M3/hour (44-2 kg/s of donsIty 2-65 1/m3).
Settling velocity:
Flow velocity: I m/s across the entire section.  0-025! m/ (Fine sand, d5 0-18mm).
Silt Plume Estimate
SCOURCE: DANISH HYDRAULIC INSTITUTE MARCH 1992
Figure: 4A



i
i
I
I
I
i
I
I
i
I
I



