Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24323
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27910; IDA-2791 1)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 111.2 MILLION (US$152.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
June 20, 2002
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
At Appraisal (April 1995) Tk 1.00 = US$ 0.0248
US$ 1.00 = Tk 40.25
ICR (June 2002) US$1.00 = Tk 57.45
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP          Annual Development Program (GOB)
BBS          Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
BRE          Brahmaputra Right Embankment
BWDB         Bangladesh Water Development Board
CEGIS        Centre for Environmental and Geographic Information System
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
DPHE         Department of Public Health Engineering
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
FAP          Flood Action Plan
FCDI         Flood Control Drainage and Irrigation
FDR          Flood Damage Rehabilitation
FIDIC        Federation Internationale Des Ingenieurs-Conseils
FPCO         Flood Plan Coordination Organizaition
GOB          Government of Bangladesh
GRC          Grievance Redress Committee
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IPOE         Independent Panel of Experts
JMBA         Jamuna Multi-Purpose Bridge Authority
LGED         Local Government Engineering Department
MIS          Management Information System
MOWR         Ministry of Water Resources
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NPV          Net Present Value
NWMP         National Water Management Plan
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
PEM          Policy Entitlement Matrix
PPAR         Project Performance Audit Report
PMRU         Project Management and Resettlement Unit
PSR          Project Status Report
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RAC          Regional Accounting Centre
RAP          Resettlement Action Plan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RBPP         River Bank Protection Project
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SCF          Standard Conversion Factor
SDR          Special Drawing Right
WARPO        Water Resources Planning Organization
WBS          Work Breakdown structure
WFP          World Food Programme
WMIP         Water Management Improvement Project (Proposed)
WPAG         Water Policy Advisory Group
Vice President: ,  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager/lDirector:  Constance A. Bernard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: ,  S.A.M. Rafiguzzaman and Ohn Myint
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



BANGLADESH
River Bank Protection Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               13
10. Additional Information                                                        13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                 29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             30
Annex 8. Borrowers Contribution to the ICR                                        31
Map: IBRD 31953:      Bangladesh - River Bank Protection Project (Including Emergency Flood
Recovery Area)



['roject ID: P009545                                      Project Name: River Bank Protection
7'eam Leader: S. A. M. Rafiquzzaman                       TL Unit: SASRD
IAR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 19, 2002
1.. Project Data
Name: River Bank Protection                          L/C/TFNumber: IDA-27910;
IDA-27911
Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                          Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: MV - Pre-Investment / Portfolio Development; VM -
Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/27/1990                             Effective: 06/20/1996         06/20/1996
Appraisal:  01/09/1995                               MTR:
Approval:  12/05/1995                              Closing: 12/31/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/lInplementing Agency: Government of Bangladesh (GOB)/Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB) and Water Resources Planning Organization (WARPO)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
>'ice President:     Mieko Nishimizu                           D. Joseph Wood
C'ountry Manager:    Frederick Thomas Temple                   Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Constance A. Bernard                      Ridwan Ali
7Team Leader at ICR:  S.A.M. Rafiquzzaman and Ohn              Keith Pitman
Myint
ICR Primary Author:  Christopher Konecki
(FAO-TCIP)
2.. Principal Performance Ratings
(FlS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactoiy, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Ualikely, HU=Highly Unsatis&ctory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The principal project objective was to prevent the erosion of riparian land at two locations on the
west bank of the Brahmaputra by the construction and maintenance of improved river-bank protection
works that would: (a) protect Sirajganj town's built-up and semi-urban areas from major damage and
cumulative destruction; and (b) prevent the merger of the Brahmaputra and Bangali Rivers in the vicinity of
Sariakandi and consequential increased regional flooding. A further objective was to assist GOB in
developing permanent institutions for improved water sector planning, preserving the institutional capacity
developed under Flood Action Plan (FAP) and maling multidisciplinary planning part of Bangladesh's
nornal water sector planning processes. A smnall component would assist Bangladesh Water Development
Board's (BWDB) efforts to improve its accounting and management information systems.
The project objectives were consistent with both the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) objectives
of land resource conservation and disaster mitigation, as reflected in the Five Year Development Plan and
IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals and sector priorities. To help Bangladesh achieve its
overarching goal of a substantial reduction in poverty within a generation, IDA's CAS (December 2000)
accords pnority to accelerating sustained rural development To this end, IDA's country assistance
program includes support for essential rural infrastructure, including defensive infiastructure for disaster
mitigation, and institutional reforms in the water sector to promote decentralized, participatory approaches
to water resources management. The project objectives addressed the need to enhance the functionality of
the existing Brahmnaputra Right Embanknent (BRE) flood management infrastructure to mitigate the
environmental and economic impacts of flooding; and to address the associated institutional strengthening
needs in implementing agencies under the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR).
3.2 Revised Objective:
Following the major floods in 1998, a Supplementary Credit was approved in April 1999,
supporting a third project objective to: (a) facilitate resumption of agricultural and economic activities
disrupted by the floods through repair and reconstruction of flood damaged water control, drainage and
irrigation infrastructure, which were damaged by the floods; and (b) prepare a program to extend river
bank protection works to other critical areas along Bangladesh's river system. The objective to improve the
accounting information system was dropped from the project, when it was decided by GOB that this
activity would be financed separately by CIDA, in a parallel operation to this project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project design incorporated the following components:
(a)    Rehabilitation and construction of river-bank protection works at two sites on the
Brahmnaputra River's west bank, including retirement and realignment of about 8 km of
the Brahmaputra Right Embankment to link the river-bank protection works at Sariakandi
and Mathurapara;
(b)    Land acquisition and a program of resettlement for people displaced by project works;
(c)    Technical assistance for implementation supervision and maintenance of works constructed
under the project,
-2 -



(d)    Establishment and initial funding of a specialized O&M Unit in BWDB to maintain the
riverbank protection works constructed under the project, and procurement of vehicles and
equipment for the O&M Unit;
(e)    Institution building technical assistance to Water Resources Planning Organization
(WARPO) to integrate the FAP within the framework of national water planning, produce
a national water management plan and a portfolio of investment projects for the medium
and long-tern, and upgrade integrated water sector planning capability; and
(f)    Institutional capacity building technical assistance to BWDB to improve the operation of
the new regional accounting centers (which includes training), and provision of equipment
and transport to improve supervision capability in the field and intemal communications.
The six components had two main thrusts: (i) construction and maintenance of river training works
and associated institutional strengthening of BWDB; and (ii) development of a National Water
Management Plan and associated institutional strengthening of WARPO. Both BWDB and WARPO were
supported by appropriate internationally recruited technical assistance. The components, taken as a whole,
were directly relevant to the achievement of project objectives. Project design drew heavily on the concepts
developed through the Brahmaputra River Training Studies (BRTS) under the Flood Action Plan (FAP)
study program; and the findings of the Project Perfornance Audit Report (PPAR) prepared by OED on the
Drainage and Flood Control Project (Cr.864-BD), which closed in 1984.
3.4 Revised Components:
An. additional component was added to address the objectives introduced under the 1999
Supplemental Credit, involving: (i) rehabilitating flood control, drainage irrigation and erosion control
facilities at some 40 sites across the country (US$21 million); (ii) undertaking remedial measures for
protection works at Sirajganj site which were damaged during the last high flow season (US$14.9 million);
(iii) financing the gap due to depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR since Credit approval (US$7.1
nillion); and (iv) preparing a longer term plan for river bank protection and designing a follow-up river
hbmk protection project to protect critical sites vulnerable to erosion (US$2 million) and to reduce damages
which may be caused by floods in future.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry of the overall project design is rated as satisfactory. The design addressed the
need for linking investments in defensive infrastructure with institutional reforms and capacity building in
the water sector. The project design took into account the special needs of a complex social-physical
enlvironment, identified potential social and environmental impacts and risks, and incorporated specific
rmitigating and enforcement mechanisms to ensure that the Bank's Resettlement and Environment safeguard
policies were followed. Recommendations of the Flood Action Plan (FAP) were acknowledged in the design
of project's institution building technical assistance for WARPO and BWDB. The preparation activities
were well managed and comprehensive, relying on past Bangladesh project knowledge base, and the latest
adlvances in river training technical analysis and design. In addition, advance procurement actions, prior to
negotiation, for major civil works contracts including supervision consultancy were well managed,
facilitating expedient implementation when the credit became effective.
The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and Environmental Inpact Assessment (EIA) were prepared
irL accordance with the applicable World Bank safeguard policies. The project was justifiably placed in the
enlvironmental screening category "B" with social and environmental impacts deternined to be site specific,
- 3-



with few, if any, being irreversible.
The EIA proposed appropriate mitigating measures against potentially adverse construction
impacts, and these were successfully implemented. Specific clauses were included in the civil works
contracts to ensure EIA conditions were enforceable for timely scheduling of in-river works and material
deposition activities. Civil works contracts included adequate provisions to ensure that affected water
supply and sanitation services were repaired; drainage congestion was mininmized; and potential water
borne infection from construction material borrow-pit areas was reduced by chemical treatment.
Management of EIA mitigating measures deployment was assured through a comprehensive Environmental
Monitoring and Action Plan developed for the project. The decision to further assesses the biodiversity
(fisheries) impacts and mitigation needs resulted in the integration of a fish-pass within the six-kilometer
link embankment near the Mathurapara "hard-point" (groyne).
The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was to be implemented by the project's Resettlement Unit and
provision was made for compensation at current market prices and for the inclusion of persons without
legal land titles who were nevertheless affected by the project (e.g. squatters, employees of displaced
businesses, etc.). Accountability and transparency in RAP implementation were strengthened by good local
level consultation, an effective information campaign and a grievance redress procedure, drawing on the
earlier Jamuna Bridge project experience.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of development objectives is rated as satisfactory. The first objective was fully
achieved. River bank protection works constructed under the project are now preventing land loss and
settlements/property destruction with consequential reduction of regional flooding. Since the 1998 floods,
these works have successfully provided flood protection for Sirajganj town and prevented the merger of
Brahmaputra/Jamuna with the Bangali River at Sariakandi, protecting against expanded flooding in
adjacent areas and associated property damage. The second development objective of improved water
sector planning and water resources management was substantially achieved with the successful
preparation of a National Water Management Plan (NWMP) and the associated institutional development
and capacity building of WARPO. The first part of the third objective to facilitate resumption of
agricultural and economic activity in 39 flood control, drainage and irrigation (FCDI) schemes, after repair
of flood damaged water control infrastructure, was also achieved. Completion of the emergency repairs in
those schemes has restored the functional infrastructure and facilitated the opportunity for affected
communities to resume and maintain agricultural production and commercial activities in the adjacent lands
and immediate hinterlands.
The second part of the third development objective--the preparation of a program to extend
riverbank protection works to other critical areas along Bangladesh river system-was postponed by
BWDB on the recommendation of the Bank. It was considered that more time was needed before this work
could be undertaken, to ensure that future strategy and investment options take into account outcomes from
the recently completed pilot project on River Bank Protection and River Training (FAP2 1/22 -
kfw/Germany funded) and the recommendations of the NWMP which at that time was still being prepared.
The FAP pilot examined options for erosion protection and river training works, while NWMP has set out
a water sector investment program for the 2001- 2025 period, based on a development strategy approved
by Government after a process involving extensive stakeholder participation. GOB is now following-up the
recommendations of NWMP and FAP pilot in their proposed erosion protection programs; and
-4 -



subsequently, the Bank proposes to undertake a study on the technical and social dimensions of river
management during FY03, to have a better understanding of the problems and the issues involved.
Institutional development and strengthening was common to all components and proposed
outcomes were largely achieved. This is evidenced by the fact that considerable momentum was
established by MOWR, through BWDB and WARPO, in extending the water resources policy agenda in
latter stages of the project. The National Water Management Development Strategy has been approved and
the NWMP', which effectively operationalizes the National, Water Policy, is in the final stage of approval
by the National Water Resources Council. Complementing these, the Bangladesh Water Act which will
iacilitate implementation of the NWMP has been drafted. WARPO, equipped with national water resources
database and some of the core-trained staff, is now better placed to carry out its mandated role.
An important complementary project outcome warrants mention, concerning the positive impact
that project investments at Sirajganj is having on the Jamuna Bridge investment. The project river training
infrastructure, when considered in conjunction with works at the Jamuna Bridge some 6 km downstream of
Sirajganj, now provide a more secured integrated river training arrangement to mitigate river related
impacts at the Bridge works (Section 6.1).
t Draft National Water Management Plan (NWMP) has been reviewed and cleared by the Executive Committee of National
Water Resources Council on February 2, 2002. The draft is expected to be formally approved soon by the National Water
Itesources Council.
4.2 Outputs by components:
River Bank Protection Works. Construction of these protection works is rated as satisfactory,
with the finished product being of superior technical quality. Activities at both sites were substantially
complete by June 1998, when the major floods occurred. Portion of the works at Sirajganj were severely
damaged during the floods, requiring remedial measures and rebuilding of a 320 meter failed section of the
2,500 meter revetment works. Construction was finally completed in June 1999, about a 12-month delay
lrom the original schedule. Completion of the works at Sariakandi-Mathurapara where flood damage was
inuch less, was delayed by three months, ana these were finalized by the end of September 1998. No
damage has occurred to any project structure in the three floods subsequent to the major one in 1998. The
mninor associated civil works procured under NCB, consisting of the BRE retirement link embankment and
lish-pass (about 2% of total civil works cost), were completed satisfactorily and are operational. Factors
which affected construction, moderately in ICB and more so in NCB contracts, included a short six month
working season dictated by the monsoon flooding, and compounded by the need to complete all land
acquisition and resettlement actions prior to start of work.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement. This socially and economically important aspect of project
implementation was rated as satisfactory, achieving its objectives and outcomes despite difficulties at
sttart-up. Implementation of all planned activities has been substantially completed, adhering to the
comprehensive Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) aspects and
criteria. Land Acquisition totaled some 120 ha (vs. 96 ha in the $AR), relocating 421 homesteads (vs. 370
in the SAR), and involving 2,080 Project Affected Persons (vs. 1828 in the SAR). All land acquisition and
resettlement activities have been substantially completed, except for 67 households at Sariakandi who have
been relocated to resettlement plots, for which land ownership titles are yet to be transferred. This
outstanding issue is yet to be resolved by the BWDB, but relates to unwillingness of the settlers to take the
litle rather than fault on the part of BWDB.
-5 -



Supervision reports and Quality Assurance Group (QAG) evaluations indicate that implementation
of the RAP and EMP was largely successful. The project provided compensation to replace property and
assets in line with the provisions of the policy entitlement matrix, complemented by support for local
community organizations in developing alternative livelihood opportunities. Project Management and
Resettlement Unit and Grievance Committees were established promptly and these ensured effective
implementation of this aspect of the project. The RAP almost represented a full-fledged social development
program in itself; and provided considerably enhanced benefits over and above the normal provisions of
GOB policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R). The implementation of the RAP provided an
excellent hands-on training opportunity for institutional development and capacity building in BWDB.
TechnicalAssistancefor Construction Supervision. Design of the protection works was funded
under an earlier IDA project (Second Small Scale FCDI Project, Cr. 1870-BD) and the supervision
contract was awarded on a single-source basis to a consortium of main firms involved in the design work.
Notwithstanding the problems caused by the 1998 floods, the performance of construction supervision TA
was Satisfactory, as it provided much-needed major project-management capacity strengthening and
building at GOB/BWDB in hands-on, learning-by-doing setting for major construction management and
O&M unit formation. The failed portion of the Sirajganj protection works involved major cost increases
(about 30%/o or US$15.6 million), to finance repairs and additional supervision costs and assess liability.
The matter was investigated by an Independent Panel of Experts (IPOE) appointed by BWDB. The panel
concluded that the Consultants' design of river-bank protection works was deficient and, therefore, the
Consultants were professionally liable. The consultants disagreed with the independent panel's conclusion
and argued that the causes of failure were the extreme conditions beyond the agreed design parameters,
caused by the magnitude of the one-in-one-hundred year floods. Based on the opinion of an intemal
committee formed by BWDB, MOWR/BWDB later accepted the consultants' clarifications and absolved
them from any fault related to the design, supervision and management of the construction. At the request
of the Bank, MOWR has, however, now agreed to appoint a second independent panel to review the entire
matter and reconcile the different conclusions of the independent panel and the subsequent BWDB internal
committee, and complete the process during 2002.
Riverbank Protection Works O&M   Unit.  The project supported the establishment of a
specialized O&M Unit in BWDB to monitor the conditions and performance of the riverbank protection
works constructed under the project, and plan annual maintenance needs; organize routine and preventive
maintenance work; and maintain a stockpile of repair materials (mainly concrete blocks and geo-textile
bags). The specialized Unit was established in 1998 and although there were initial delays, by the end of
the project it was properly staffed and equipment for monitoring and maintenance has been procured. The
Unit is functioning satisfactorily and is carrying out survey and monitoring of the completed works
throughout the year. As planned, BWDB has outsourced provision of necessary long-term technical
support requirements by engaging two specialized agencies, the Centre for Environmental and Geographic
Information System (CEGIS) for prediction of possible bank line movement in the particular river reaches
relevant to the project works, and the Surface Water Modeling Centre (SWMC) for pre/post-monsoon
assessment of morphological changes in the riverbed. Any maintenance work required will be tendered to
national contractors. As this is specialized work for most contractors and timing is usually a crucial factor
when substantive work needs to be done, BWDB is maintaining a stockpile of repair materials and will
lease specialized equipment procured under the project (tugboat, work barges and crane) to facilitate a
quick response by contractors.
Strengthening and Institutional Capacity Building in WARPO and preparation of the
National Water Management Plan (NWMP).      This component included three main activities:
institutional strengthening of WARPO; establishment of a national water resources database (NWRD);
- 6 -



and, preparation of the NWMP. Overall implementation outputs for the most part is rated as satisfactory.
The outputs from component activities were achieved. The combined activities strengthened the water
management planning capacity within the country and have facilitated the steady transition to a more
comprehensive and integrated approach to water sector development This new integrated approach was
initiated under FAP and the 1995 Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy continued it to some
degree. But the major advances have been made under this project during both preparation and
inplementation, culminating in the emergence of the National Water Policy in January 1999, the National
Water Development Strategy in June 2001, and finally, in December 2001, the National Water
Management Plan. A dral Bangladesh Water Act, an essential instrument for facilitating the
imnplementation of the management plan, was also prepared in 2001.
Overall, the performance of TA is considered as generally satisfactory.  Management of TA
inputs would have benefited from optimization of work plans and more efficient and effective resources
deployment An Independent Panel of Experts (IPOE) consisting of national and intemational consultants
was appointed to advise WARPO on technical matters associated with the preparation of NWMP. The
potential benefits of the panel's advice was limited by the fact that there was no clear leadership of the
p:mel, leading to an unfocused approach in their interactions with WARPO.and the TA team helping
prepare the NWMP. Also, the multiplicity of TA tearns (e.g. NWMP consultants, IPOEs and WPAG)
pased a major challenge to WARPO in terms of coordination and reconciling the conflicting views.
Flood Rehabilitation Works. Despite the problem of misprocurement on a proportion of small
value post-review contracts, the output from implementation of this component is still regarded as
satisfactory. The works comprised rehabilitation, repair and re-construction of Flood Control Drainage
anid Irrigation (FCDI) infrastructure in 39 BWDB schemes dispersed throughout the country.
Rehabilitation and repairs were arranged through 321 separate and small contracts, of which 309 were in
the range of US$2,000 to US$200,000, (with an average value of about US$67,000) and were therefore
not subject to the Bank's prior review. Repairs undertaken under these contracts were of a generally
s£1tisfactory quality, but a significantly unsatisfactory aspect of the implementation was the non-compliance
by BWDB with the Bank's NCB guidelines, resulting in misprocurement being declared for 67 contracts of
the 309 post-review contracts, and constituting around 13% of the total cost of the flood repair component.
Limited technical capacity of field level BWDB staff to manage the NCB, and their lack of appreciation of
Bank's stringent procurement guidelines led to inappropriate procurement practices including collusive
bidding, unacceptable errors and inordinate delays. Under the Supplemental Credit, additional TA was
arranged (financed by AUSAID during preparation, but IDA during implementation) to assist in the
implementation of the emergency post flood repairs program. The supervision consultant's procurement
guidance was not effective due to the number and dispersion of small contracts. It is worth mentioning here
that this procurement exercise was BWDB's first experience with the Bank's standard bidding documents
fcr NCB on contracts under Tkl 1.00 million. Neither BWDB staff, nor particularly the small contractors
involved, found the new document fornats and increased procedural requirements easy to handle, and this
no doubt contributed to the procurement problem that resulted.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project economic analysis was done only on the riverbank protection works and was based on
a hypothetical assumption regarding the year the benefits of the project commenced - these benefits being
identified as the damage avoided by preventing riverbank erosion. Since the original earth embanlkment of
the BRE was already in place and the project objective was to ensure that breaches would not occur in
future, estimation of benefits depend on assumptions about when the breaches would be likely to occur and
when the actual construction of the protection works would be advanced enough to begin providing
-7 -



enhanced protection against this breaching. The SAR accordingly makes (in addition to the baseline
analysis) three calculations of ERR depending on a hypothetical tuning of when the project benefits are
likely to commence (a 1, 2 or 3-year delay). The ICR, in its analysis, assumes the project benefits as
starting only when construction is completed, a situation equivalent to the SAR's two year's delay scenario.
On this basis, the ICR estimate of ERR for the two sub-components together is about 16%, which is
comparable to the SAR estimate.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project at Credit Closing is rated as modest, although
the impact is envisaged to evolve further over time. In case of river training works, BWDB has
demonstrated their enhanced appreciation of the importance of proper O&M aspects and is now better
organized for monitoring and maintenance activities. The BWDB's specialized O&M Unit is established
with improved, equipment and operational capacity. Staff have been trained on the job, a draft O&M
manual prepared to improve regular performance; and planning functions introduced to prepare annual
programs and budgets. Where technical capacities are not available in-house, specialized aspects of
monitoring functions have been outsourced to experts in the private sector. The impact with respect to
WARPO has however been less, with only limited skills in integrated water management being transferred
from the TA team preparing the NWMP to the core staff of WARPO. In its present form and with its
present legal status, WARPO cannot provide sufficient incentives to attract staff of the needed technical
calibre to perform its mandated function as an inter-ministerial water resource planning organization. It is
recognized that this project did not adequately address this very difficult issue. Both the Netherlands and
ADB are now actively considering projects to strengthen WARPO to enable it to carryout its mandated
functions more effectively.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The extreme 1998 monsoon flooding was the most significant factor affecting the project
implementation. This flood was of a 1/100 year magnitude which caused extensive damage to the river
training works under construction, increasing civil works costs substantially and delaying completion.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The main issues related to (i) delayed sanctioning of employment of qualified staff by WARPO
and BWDB's specialized O&M Unit in the early stages of the project; and (ii) delay in GOB approval of
the draft NWMP largely due to inaction during the period immediately preceding and following the 2001
general elections. The NWMP was approved in February 2002 after the Credit closed.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
BWDB made effective and expedient decisions to repairing damaged portions of FCDI schemes
after the 1998 floods, but did not adequately control procurement processing of NCB contracts resulting in
unacceptable bidding practices including collusion at some BWDB field offices and a significant number
of cases of misprocurement. In WARPO, the slow provision of adequate office facilities and logistics for
the TA team working on the NWMP caused significant implementation delays early in the project In
- 8 -



addition, frequent movement of some senior personnel in WARPO early in the project period adversely
affected management and planning effectiveness.
'.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original total project cost was US$156.0 million equivalent and this was increased to
U`S$192.0 million after the 1998 floods to finance emergency repairs through the Supplemental Credit.
Final project costs are estimated at US$192.0 million, in line with the original combined project cost
estimates.
Out of the combined credit amount of SDR 111.2 million, as of June 16, 2002, SDR 107.1 million
had been disbursed; SDR 2.2 million cancelled due to misprocurement; the balance of SDR 1.9 million will
be fully disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The long-term sustainability of the project is rated as ULkely. The civil works for the riverbank
protection structures have been completed to a relatively high construction standard, and all structures at
the two project sites, Sariakandi-Mathurapara and Sirajganj, have performed satisfactorily from a technical
sustainability viewpoint, in the last three flood periods. During the devastating floods in 1998, the 2,500 m
long Sirajganj "hard-point", was severely damaged over a -320 m section. Following extensive repairs, the
works are stable and reportedly secure with a 50-year design life. The revetment work integrity is
monitored regularly and remedial actions taken as needed by the special O&M Unit of BWDB. This Unit
was formed in 1998 and is functioning with necessary core staff and equipment. The Unit carries out
monitoring and maintenance activities in collaboration with private sector specialized agencies, the Surface
WVlater Modeling Centre (SWMC) and Centre for Environmental and Geographic Information System
(-EGIS).
Sustainability of the river tramiing aspect of the project depends, however, only partially on the
proper maintenance of the protection works at Sirajganj and Sariakandi-Mathurapara. These were two
p)iority sites selected from more than 20 sites identified in the Brahmaputra River Training Study as being
strategically important in the effort to limit the west-ward migration of the river. In designing the project, it
was envisaged that protection works would be required at other sites in time, and that this should be done in
a phased manner as and when needed, with due consideration of the economic, social and environmental
issues involved. Sustainability therefore will depend on the ability of BWDB through its specialized O&M
Unit with support from EGIS and SWMC, to monitor river movetnents, identify areas of the river at risk of
substantive erosion, and take mitigation measures. It also depends on the availability of financing for
fiuture necessary river training works and for this, GOB will be relying on donor support to supplement its
own resources. In this regard, the Government intends to examine options for full or partial cost recovery.
Siince the integrity of Jamuna Bridge is linked to that of Sirajganj protection works, the potential exists for
sharing its maintenance cost with the Jarnuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority (JMBA), or for BWDB to
hand over the maintenance responsibility to JMBA, which already performs regular river monitoring
upstream of Sirajganj.
The repairs to the FCDI schemes affected by the 1998 flood were completed successfully by
BWDB, but consistent O&M support for these schemes is needed if this investrnent is to be sustained.
Based on past experience, GOB budget support is uncertain for this activity and alternate means are needed
to supplement the O&M funding. GOB intends, through use of the "Guidelines for Participatory Water
-9-



Management" approved in April 2001, to encourage community participation in management of FCDI
schemes, including contribution to O&M costs. If properly implemented, this community-based approach
could contribute effectively to longer-term operational sustainability of these schemes.
Likely sustainability of institutional strengthening outputs in water sector planning is signaled by
GOB's adoption of key policy instruments, the NWMP and the proposed Bangladesh Water Act WARPO
has prepared a 5-year work plan, which includes NWMP follow-up studies, screening of water sector
investments, annual updating of National Water Resources Database (NWRDB), and the updating of the
NWMP. But in its present form, WARPO is unlikely to be able to manage these functions without
continuing external support
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All project activities have been undertaken by BWDB and WARPO as part of their day-to-day
functions, but with substantive TA support. Further TA support will be needed particularly with respect to
the river protection O&M and water resource planning. GOB expects to secure this support through
ongoing and future projects in the sector, including the twining arrangement with the Netherlands.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance during the project preparation is considered satisfactory. The project was
prepared comprehensively by an experienced team. It was consistent with GOB strategic priorities of the
Five-Year Development Plan as well as with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy and sector priorities.
Project preparation and appraisal responded to the complex social, environmental, technical, engineering,
and economic viability issues associated with attempts at river trining and integrated water resource
management Preparation efforts recognized the need for implementing agencies to have selective technical
assistance when necessary; and insistence on advance procurement actions meant that civil works were
completed on time and within budget.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in project supervision is rated as satisfactory. The Bank's supervision team
experience, skill mix and continuity were appropriate. The project review teams were responsive to client
concerns and issues at critical points of physical works implementation. Financial management specialists
were included later as the Bank added these staff positions. The supervision was cost effective considering
total size and demands for conformance to the Bank's internal quality assurance guidelines and safeguards
policies related to Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement The approach by Bank supervision
teams of facilitating implementation rather than directing it made an important contribution to project
outcomes by BWBD's and WARPO's taking full ownership of project activities.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on the above, the Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation is rated as satisfactory. The deferral of
-10-



appraisal from late-1992 to mid-1995, during which time long-standing institutional issues at BWDB were
addressed and arrangements were filized with CIDA for modernization of BWDB Accounting System,
provided sufficient time for a higher level dialogue to secure GOB's commitment to the project The
preparation ensured that the key elements required for physical works implementation - engineering design,
land acquisition, procurement of contractors, and procurement of supervision consultants - were
substantially completed before the Credit became effective.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
GOB's performance during implemnentation can be considered sah'sfactory. Project ownership was
generally good and consistent. Matters pertaining to emergency repair response and resolution of
contractual issues with major works construction, repair and re-design were handled reasonably expediently
and effectively. Institutional development activities in BWDB and WARPO received less priority from the
Government but gained considerable recognition during the course of the project. The GOB provided
support and strong commitment to the development of water resources sector policy instruments such as the
NWMP and draft Bangladesh Water Act.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies was mostly satisfactory during implementation.
WARPO management of the NWMP consultants at the initial stages was not adequately focused
on intended goals and objectives - with insufficient monitoring and TA resource management controls.
However, management improved significantly over time, and particularly in the last 18 months of the
project, when WARPO finally asserted full oJiership of the NWMP preparation.
BWDB's performance in implementing the river training component was satisfactory in terms of
procurement management of the civil works contracts and the supervisory consultants. Decisive action was
laken to initiate emergency repairs to the flood damaged Sirajgong protection works and to form an
independent panel to investigate the failure. The subsequent overturning of this panel's conclusions by an
intemal committee of BWDB, later endorsed by MOWR, was, however, somewhat questionable, and is still
lo be resolved. However, BWDB's performance in managing the river training component, was
overshadowed later by improper practices identified in contracting of small Flood Damage Repair works.
The experience in this project confirms that BWDB's procurement management capacity needs
strengthening, including procurement perfornance tracking on a regular basis. Instead of split of works
into a large number of small packages, the contract packages should have been larger in size for ease of
management and to ensure proper checks and balances are in place. In addition, provision for periodic and
annual procurement audit may be built into any future project design.
The project's financial management performance was satisfactory, although for flood damages
rehabilitation contracts, the payment and accounting procedure was apparently complicated by centralized
processing for all the small contrats scattered over the entire country, rather than in the jurisdictions where
these works were located. Having adequately trained staff at the RACs would also have helped to avoid the
complications and delays with withdrawal applications for this component. Annual audits were carried out
regularly by the Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate (FAPAD) and Audit reports were submitted
raostly on schedule. The observations of the auditors were responded to by the project authority timely and
consistently, and resolved through tripartite meetings held among MOWR, FAPAD & BWDB. However,
918 audit observations still remain unresolved, although many of these are of a trivial nature, and the key
audit findings on procurement indicate lack of understanding of procurement policy/procedures in large



contracts on the auditor's part. The Ministry of Water Resources has agreed to pursue resolution of these
observations following standard Government policies. The legal covenants under the Credit were generally
in compliance.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperfiornance:
Based on the above, the performance of the borrower overall is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
General Lessons
* Use of Independent Panels of Experts (IPOE) will be effective only when the implementing
agencies (IAs) and the IPOE clearly understand the TORs and the lAs adequately manage
the panel's outputs.
*   To ensure cost-effectiveness, and maximize the benefit of technical assistance, it must be
pro-actively managed by the contracting project agency, from day one of the consultants'
assignment. Without good management, TA inputs ini the early stages of the assignmnent
tend to be squandered, often resulting in reduced and delayed delivery of TA inputs.
*   Whenever possible, payment terms of TA contracts should be linked in some way to
measurable contract outputs, rather than  relying solely on time-based payments (or
through a judicious combination of both) to reduce potential cost overruns and the chance
of delayed outputs.
*   ICB and FIDIC procedures are highly advantageous when undertaking civil works in
difficult physical situations (such as riverbank protection). The ability to react quickly and
effectively to emergency situations, such as the 1998 floods, is greatly enhanced if the
contract manager can operate in an independent professional manner, unconstrained by
unnecessary outside interests.
BWDB Specific Lessons
*   Procurement management capacity of BWDB needs strengthening, including procurement
performance tracking on a regular basis. Fragmentation of works into a large number of
small packages must be avoided and a core group of professionals should be developed
within the implementing agency to supervise all procurement matters. In addition,
mandatory provision for periodic and annual procurement audit should be built into the
future project designs.
* The institutional arrangements for financial management within the BWDB and the impact
of ongoing CIDA-assisted TA project to strengthen financial management capacity should
be assessed thoroughly in the context of BWDB's institutional reform program to ensure
that adequate intemal controls are put in place and operated properly.
- 12 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
GOB/BWDB/WARPO endorsed the conclusions of the ICR with the one exception of the flood
damage rehabilitation misprocurement, where BWDB felt the Bank has been "rigid and focused on
procedure rather than objective". BWDB argued that it was not the limited procurement management
capacity of BWDB field staff that caused the problem, but rather it was a combination of "(i) contractors
amd BWDB staff long held association with GOB procedures in processing tenders which is different from
'DA guidelines; (ii) lack of dissemination of knowledge about IDA guidelines (for NCB contracts under
TIkl.0 million) through workshops and seminars for BWDB field offices and contractors; (iii) lack of
confidence (and English skills) on the part of small contractors to complete tender documents in fear of
being non-responsive, and consequently taking the help of others to do this; and, (vi) provision of dropping
lenders in one place rather than a number of places, which encouraged collusive bidding and some other
l adverse) social factors".
[A full project assessment by the Borrower is in Annex 8]
cb) Cofinanciers:
N4ot Applicable
l'c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.ot Applicable
ILO. Additional Information
The Borrower's assessment of project implementation is attached at Annex 8.
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
~~~~~~~~~I                                            -                      ;-  __5!_S_'j- j  ,;Jt s|1-2,:e^
-ndlc-atorlMatrx                   ProjectedInlast PSR                    ctal..as      m.
DO 1: Target area protected from flood due                                 Achieved -an evaluaton repon is prepared by
to river erosion on a sustainable basis                                    the Bonfower to qualifylquantify targets.
(a) Erosion bosses prevented at Saroakand-  (a) Erosion loss prevented through the  (a) achieved-supported and quantified by
Mathurapara and Sirajganj over an area of  construction of lmpinoved river training works GOB evaluation report as issued In
about 78,000 ha, benefiting a popubtion of  at those locatons since Nov 1998/June  December 2001.
about 125,500 from 1999.              1999.
(b) Regional flood damages behind the  (b) Regcnal flood damages behind BRE has (b) achieved-physical works completed under
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) In  been minimLzed since 2000 through   the project provide the planned protedion to
Karotoa-BangaUl rivers system covering an  preventing possible merger of the  prevent the merger of the rivers, Brahmaputra
area of about 300.000 ha, due to I kely  Brahmaputra and the Bangall.      wih Bengal.
merger of the Bangal and Brahmaputra
rivers prevented from 1999.
D02: Govemment capacity built to update                                    Achieved-WARPO Is firmly founded. GOB
multi- sectoral Natonal Water Management                                   high-level support needed to re-organtze and
Plan (NWMP) in a participatory manner on a                                 formfalze its status for Inter-agency funcions.
regular basis.
(a) Government capacity progressively  (a) substantially achieved iWroved GOB
-WARPO updates the national water     strengthened So far, 27 professional  capaciy -WARPO made 5-YearWork Plan
management plan periodically (possibly every poskion fiHed In against a total of 37.  to coordinate, monitor and regulady update
five years), beginning from 2002.                                          the NWMP
(bj The preparation of NWMP commenced  (b) achieved NWMP approved by GOB with
from March 15,1998. The Draft Final   stakeholder inputs In February 2002. HR
Development Stategy Report has been   capacity was somewhat improved at
issued in March 2001 and draft final NWMP  WARPO.
prepared by November 2001.
DO 3: Fadcitate reumption of agrculture and Agdcuture and econonic activities, disrupted Achieved-Protected lands, improved faclities
economic actvites disrupted by the 1998  by 1998 floods, resumed in the affected  in 39 schemes and established sense of
floods                                areas of 39 BWDB scshemes.            secudty Is promoting increased economic
ac-1t.
-14 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   ProJected In last PSR               ActuaVLaest Estimate
D)O 1:
Output IndIcator 1.1: Improved iver training  SubstantUally completed by November 1998. Achieved-all physical works and assodated
wvork completed at three locations   FuDy completed induding repairs to damages safeguard programs fuDy Implemented as
(Sadakandi, Mathurapara and SraiganD as  at Sirajgarq by June 1999.       planned.
per design standards.
DO I                                 Link embankment completed. Fish pass  Achieved-all aspects of the physical
Output Indicator 1.2: LInk embankment  completed and commissioned.        improvements plans have been implemented
between Kalitola and Mathurapam hnduding a                                acoording to project plans
fish -pass constructed as per design
standards by June 1999.
DIO 1                                Operational due to current arrangement with Achieved-BWDB spedal O&M Unit
Output Indicator 1.3: BWDBs Spedaized  a full time Executive Engineer since  estabished and functioning weD under the
Operation and Maintenance Unit established December 1999. The Unit is carrying out  project. Continued routne budget support is
at SiraJgarl with dear Temis of Reference  routine surveys and montodring by Its own  needed from GOB to provide successful
CrOR).                               team, whie the annual surveys and analys  sewvce delivery.
through speciaRzed agences like EGIS and
SWMC under annual contracts. The
procurement of core maintenance equipment
consists of two contract padkages - so far
one of the contract has been awarded.
DO01                                                                      Substantially Achieved -the processing
Cutput Indicator 1.4(a): 986 EntUled Persons 1.4 (a) Coompensaton and Rehabilitation of  con6inues by GOB to resolve 3.5%
( EPs) compensated and 399 households  EPs at Kaliftola, Saiakandi, Mathurapara and outstanding claims (67 total to provide
rcdocated as per RAP                 Siraigonj:                           Intended PEM reparations under items (a).
0) 1843 (98.50%) EPs out of 1865     (b), (c) and (d) lIsted in the adjacent column.
compensated; and
(b) 840 EPs compensated and 72       (id aD 351 HHs out of 353 have-been
households relocated In link embankment
area by March 31, 1999               (b) Compensaton and RehabUbtation of EPs
for Kalitola - Mathurapara ink embankment
() Total 2102 EPs. out of 2123
compensated; and
(il) al 63 entMed HHs relocated
(c) Compensation and Rehabitatn of
(c) EPs for fish-pass site:
() Total 434 EPs out of 461 compensated;
and
(ii) all 6 entiled HHs relocated
(d) Compensaton and Rehablittion of EPs
for marginal dyke site:
0) Total 273 EPs out of 279 compensated;
and
(ii) the one entitled HHs relocated
DO 2:                                                                     Achieved 4NWMP and National Water.
Output Indicator 2.1: National Water                                       Resources data base were delivered within
Ma3nagement Plan ( NWMP) prepared                                          reasonable timeRness of the indicatve
integrating muRti-sectoral needs in a                                      milestones/schiedues
partcipatory manner by March 2001:
I   ea) Incepton report issued in June 1998;
(a) Inception report by June 19998
(b) Report on 'Issues for the NWMP issued
(bi Issues for the NVMP by March 1999;  In May 1999;
- 15 -



(c) Draft Final Development Strategy Report
(c) Dev Strategy by March 2001:      issued in March 2001. The report has been
accepted In the Exeacive Committee of
National Water Resoures Councl
(ECNWRC).
(d) Draft NWMP Issued in July2001 for  (d) Draft NWMP issued In July2001 for
review and comments; and             review and comments.
(e) final NWMP issued by November 2001.  (e) draft Final NWMP Issued by November
2001.
DO 2                                 Water Resoures Plaming Orgarizabon   Substanially Achleved Intended outputs.
Output Indbator 2.2: Water Resouces  (WARPO) re-organized and fuly staffed for Falow-on planned by GOB (with GoN) for
Planning Organization (WARPO)        oomprehensive water sector planning and  more strengthening and capacity bulding to
re-orgarized and fuly staffed for    future updating, beginning from 2002.  fully operabonarize WARPO and 5-Year Plan
comprehensive water sedor planning and                                    indudes NWMP updating as normal adivity.
future updating, beginning from 2002.
DO 3:                                The overall physical progress of repair/  Achieved Procurement irreguladties have
Output Indicator 3.1: Flood control, drainage rehabiDltaon works in 39 subprojects is about been investgated and cancelation of about
and tirgatbon infrastructure in 39 subprojects 95%. Repair works under 259 contracts are  US$2.0 milion is proposed from the Credit
repaired and rehabilitated by June 2001.  fully complete, out of total 321. Most of the  Misprocurement acoounted for about 2% of
remaing works are expected to be    total project Investment cost
completed by November 30, 2001.
End of project
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
lroject Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component.           US$ million  US$ million
1. River Bank Protection                         126.70         156.60           124
2.National Water Planning / Institutional Building and  7.90      9.40           119
Strengthening
3. 1998 Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Work        0.00          26.00
4. Preparation of RBPP II                          0.00
rotal Baseline Cost                               134.60        192.00
Physical Contingencies                            16.20          0.00             0
Price Contingencies                               5.20           0.00
Total Project Costs           156.00         192.00
Total Financing Required           156.00         192.00
Ref: MOP (March 22,1999), Schedule A, Page I of 2.
FProject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent) __._.
Expenditure Category!ICB           Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
11. Works                   120.20        3.70        3.80         0.00        127.70
(99.80)      (2.20)       (0.80)       (0.00)      (102.80)
2. Goods                     8.90         0.40        0.10         0.00         9.40
(3.90)       (0.10)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (4.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        13.60        0.00         13.60
(0.00)       (0.00)      (13.60)       (0.00)      (13.60)
41. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.20        0.00         0.20
Overseas Training          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)      (0.20)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         5.10        0.00         5.10
- GOB Project Management    (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.30)       (0.00)      (1.30)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
______________________     (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    129.10        4.10         22.80        0.00        156.00
_                          (103.70)      (2.30)      (15.90)       (0.00)     (121.90)
Ref: SAR (November 10, 1995), Page 29, Table 2.3
17 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method.
Exenditure Category         ICB           NC           Oth2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       131.02        42.47          0.00          0.00         173.49
(124.85)       (11.77)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (136.62)
2. Goods                        2.02          1.51          0.00          0.00          3.53
(1.17)        (0.93)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.10)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          14.98         0.00         14.98
(0.00)        (0.00)        (10.48)       (0.00)        (10.48)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Overseas Training             (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
- GOB Project Management       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       133.04         43.98         14.98          0.00        192.00
_   (126.02)       (12.70)       (10.48)        (0.00)      (149.20)
Ref: SAP Procurement Summary Report and MOP (March 22,1999), Schedule B, Page I of 2.. IDA
financing has been adjusted for about US$2.80 million, cancelled due to misprocurement (see Section 5.4).
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (n USmillion equivalent)
nnt (in US$                n                           Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate                    -
. A           WGovt  CoF.    Bank      Giom      CoF.     Bank   Govt.  CoF.
1. Rlver Bank Protecdon  114.50   32.90               128.70     7.02             112.4   21.3
2.Natlonal Water Planning  7.40    1.20               7.80       1.60             105.4  133.3
/ Institutdonal Building and
Strengthening
3.1998 Flood Emergency                                12.70     34.18
RehabDitation Work
4. Preparation of RBPP II                             0.00       0.00
Total                   121.90    34.10               149.20    42.80             122.4  125.5
Ref: MOP (March 22,1999), Schedule A, Page 2 of 2.
The IDA Credit for RBPP increased to SDR 111.2 million (US$ 166.9 million in 1995 terms and US$ 152
million in 1999 terms). The conversion considered financial adjustment for the fluctuating SDRtUS$
exchange rates. Full amount of US$149.20 million, available balance after canceling about US$2.8 million
due to misprocurement, is estimated to be disbursed (Section 5.4).
- 18 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
River Bank Protection Project
Project ID: P009545 IDA Credit 27910/27911
Economic Evaluation
1.    The ICR Mission re-evaluated the project economics on the basis of the latest project data at
project completion and data available from the National Water Management Plan (NWM) economic
,tudies, an impact survey -carried out by EGIS in October-November 2001 and recent national economic
:statistics. As in the SAR, separate analysis were undertaken for the two largest project activities in cost
terms, the Sariakandi /Mathurapara and Sirajganj river bank protection works sub-projects. Other than the
3AR, the Tables 1-19 cited in Annex 3 are referenced as the ICR Mission Economic Analysis Tables in
Annex 7. Together these account for about 78% of the total project costs. Based on Tables 1, 2 and 19
i'ound in the ICR Mission Economic Analysis Tables (ref. Annex 7), the results of the analysis are shown
as follows (SAR values in brackets, 1996 taken as Year 1);
Proiect Portion     EIRR          NPV a, 12% (1998/99 prices)
%          (Tk million)  (US$ million)
Sariakandi/Mathurapara      15.2        504           10.4
(35)         (1615)       (21.6)
Sirajganj                   16.6        448           9.2
(45)         (869)        (40.6)
Total                       15.8        952           19.6
(39)         (248)        (62.2)
:!.    As far as possible, the re-analysis followed the methodology and approach adopted in the SAR
Xnalysis. There are, however, significant differences between the two analyses, as follows:
*      The final cost of the Sirajganj sub-project is some 30% above appraisal estimates
(US$86.4M as compared to the US$66.2M in SAR Annex 6), due mainly to the Tk. 755
million cost (Tk. 719M base cost plus, for economic analysis purposes, 5% for engineering
and administration and miscellaneous costs; the dollar equivalent at the 1998/99 exchange
rate is US$15.6M) of the works required to repair the damage to the Sirajganj hard point
which occurred in the 1998 flood.
*      Costs and benefits have been updated to a 1998/99 constant price basis, using Bangladesh
Bureau of Statistics (BBS) national indices and the crop economic prices and net retums
calculated in the NWMP detailed economic studies. The BBS 1998/99 Annual Statistical
Yearbook is the latest one available.
*      Values of the land, property and infrastructure assets protected by the two sub-projects
have been updated on the basis of the EGIS current asset price data collected from the two
sub-project benefit areas in October-November 2001; these were then converted onto a
1998/99 price basis.
*      The areas of crop protected from flooding by the Sariakandi/Mathurapara sub-project
have been changed from the SAR figures on the basis of estimates provided by the
Department of Agricultural.Extension (DAE).
*      In converting values from financial to economnic prices the revised Standard Conversion
-19-



Factor (SCF) and other input and output conversion factors developed in March 1998 for
water resource projects by Q. Shahabuddin and I.A. Syed were applied, as for the NWMP
studies. Differences between the 1998 factors and the factors applied in the SAR analysis
are comparatively small.
For both sub-projects the benefits have been assumed to start in project year 3, in
comparison with the Year 1 start assumed in the SAR. With construction commencing in
1996, Year 3 was 1998, an exceptionally high flood year. By June 1998 both sub-projects
were virtually complete, and provided valuable protection, and thus benefits, in the July to
September 1998 flood period. Although the Sirajganj hard point suffered serious damage,
it was still able to fulfil its protection function. Without it, erosion damage to Sirajganj
could have been severe. In the 1996 and 1997 flood seasons, however, construction was
insufficiently far advanced to provide effective protection.
3.     Sub-project benefits comprise the avoidance of the losses (erosion) of land, property and
infrastructure, crop production and employment, which would otherwise occur if the riverbank protection
works had not been undertaken (i.e. in the 'without project' (WOP) situation). The basic aim is thus to
preserve/protect the sub-project areas' existing physical asset base rather than to change it. In these
circumstances benefit monitoring has little relevance; implementation of the works has prevented the
damage and losses that would otherwise occur and would provide the only reliable basis for quantifjing
benefits, using actual observations and measured data rather than predictions and hypotheses. Updating by
the ICR of the SAR physical parameters on the basis of observed data from project impact monitoring in
the implementation period is therefore not feasible. For the ICR re-analysis the SAR physical parameters
have thus been used.
4.     An important qualification to the ICR re-analysis is that, as in the SAR, account has not been
taken of possible benefits of the RBPP to the Jamuna Multi-purpose Bridge (JMB). The Sirajganj
hardpoint is only some 6km upstream of the western end of the bridge, and the JMB Authority is already
maintaining the riverbank protection works from the bridge up to the downstream end of the Sirajganj
hardpoint. Without the hardpoint, the Jamuna could possibly break through its right bank at Sirajganj and
bypass the bridge. If so, the hardpoint had had to be constructed anyway, as part of the JMB Project, and
its economic justification would be assured by the fact that it would be essential for the bridge's integrity.
5.     Tables 1 and 2 in the economic analysis reference document (ref. Annex7-ICR Mission Economic
Analysis Tables) summarize the economic analyses of the Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajganj
sub-projects and Table 3 to 18 show the supporting detailed calculations. For comparison purposes the
sections below describe the re-analysis, following the same headings as the SAR as far as possible.
A. Proiect Benefits
6.     As stated in SAR Annex 8: Economic Analysis, the project benefits are the damages and avoided
by preventing riverbank erosion. These damages arise out of land loss to erosion and local and regional
flooding as a result of breaches of the BRE (Brahmaputra Right Embankment) and of a merger of the
Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers. Erosion losses include the agricultural production foregone from
destruction of agricultural and urban land and the loss of private property and public infrastructure on
flooded land. The flood damages consist of: (a) total loss of crops, livestock, property and infrastructure
near a BRE breach at a given location; (b) partial damage to crops, property and infrastructure in the
flooded area behind a BRE breach; (c) partial damage to crops, property and infrastructure in the
incremental area of about l0O,OOOha of the Karatoa-Bangali-Ichimati river system floodplain, which would
- 20 -



be subject to flooding hazards due to perennial augmentation of Bangali river flow when the Bangali river
channel would become a distributary river of the Brahmaputra; and (d) savings in construction costs of
local BRE retirements at locations where potential BRE breaches are prevented by the project.
7.    In addition to possible JMB benefits, certain other benefits could not be quantified because of lack
of data. The crop, property and infrastructure damage that might be caused by deeper flooding of the
200,000ha area of the Karatoa-Bangali-Ichimati rivers' floodplain, presently vulnerable to periodic
flooding, was not quantified. The losses due to disruptions of road and rail traffic during flooding of the
transportation network could not be calculated, nor could the losses attributable to disincentives to private
investment in and around the flooded area. Benefits from the new fish pass in the BRE in the
Sariakandi/Mathurapara sub-project and from the 25ha of new land created at Sirajganj would be too small
to significantly affect overall benefit values.
8.     Though non-quantifiable in economic terms, social benefits would be high. Bank erosion causes
severe distress and social disruption, as dwellings, agricultural and urban land and other assets are swept
away and the local inhabitants are forced to relocate. Avoidance of such adverse social impacts can be
regarded as a major benefit of the project.
B. Erosion Prevention Benefits
9.     Land Losses: Based on the SAR assumptions, in the WOP situation 50% of the urban land in
Sirajganj would be lost in the first five years of benefits, together with the built-up area (Upazila HQ) of
Sariakandi. Thereafter the land losses would be predominantly rural. The SAR benefit values have been
adjusted on the basis of the EGIS field survey data and the conversion from 1994 prices (the presumed
SAR price basis) to a 1998/99-price basis. Allowance has not been made for the value of the additional
land accreted elsewhere as a result of the WOP crosion, because accreted land is worth so much less than
eroded land, being completely undeveloped. Land values are based on market (financial) prices, adjusted by
the SCF (Standard Conversion Factor).
10.    Property and Infrastructure Losses: The property and infrastructure benefits given in Table 4 of
SAR Annex 8, increased by 24.8% to take account of the rise in construction costs between 1994 and
1998/99, as reported in the BBS Construction Cost Index (Building), and adjusted by the slightly different
economic conversion factors applied in this ICR. Following the SAR assumptions, losses would be highest
in the first five benefit years (Years 3 to 7). Immediately thereafter they would be much lower, but would
grow at a rate of 5% per annum (in real terms) until the end of the analysis period (Year 30). Since the
early 1990s Bangladesh's economic growth rate has averaged around 5%, and expectations are that this
will increase somewhat in the future. As the economy grows, so will the stock of property, infrastructure
and other assets at risk from erosion and flooding. No such increase has been assumed for agricultural
benefits. Comparison of crop returns per hectare between the SAR estimates, which date originally from
the early 1990s, and the NWMP values applied in this ICR, show a 14% reduction in economic returns per
hectare. This is presumably a result of worsening terms of trade for agriculture within the Bangladesh
economy. Under these circumstances it would be imprudent to predict increasing net agricultural returns
over time.
11.   Employment Losses: Destruction of buildings through erosion would cause a temporary loss of
employment. The ICR valuation of the benefits from preventing such employment losses has followed that
of the SAR, but with a 26% increase to 1998/99 price levels, based on the change in the BBS Bangladesh
Nominal Wage Index between 1994/95 and 1998/99, and the application of the revised SCF of 0.90.
- 21 -



C. BRE Breach Losses Avoided
12.    As described in the SAR, the benefits in the form of damage avoidance from BRE breaches consist
of the damages near the breach caused by sudden flooding, and damages beyond the breach where there is
deep and prolonged inundation. Near the breach damages consist of crops, livestock, property and
infrastructure lost or destroyed when the breach occurs, and reduction of soil productivity for several years
due to sand deposition as the flood recedes. Each damage near the breach was evaluated separately, as
described in the SAR. Regional flood damage evaluation is described in Section D, together with the
evaluation of regional flood damages caused by a merger of the Brahmaputra and Bangali rivers.
13.    Without the project, it would be impossible to retire the BRE at Sariakandi/ Mathurapara
following its imminent breach in the first benefit year. Any retirement would be subject to an immediate
breach by ongoing erosion, as the Bangali River, in effect, acts as a physical boundary for any retirement
Since resources would not be wasted on retirements, the BRE's hinterland would be subject to regular
annual flooding from the open breach. This would continue for several years until the land between the
Bangali and the Brahmaputra would be eroded and a merger occurs, resulting in exacerbated regional
flooding in subsequent years. At Sirajganj, the BRE was assumed to be breached in the first benefit year,
causing severe damage to the town. Since the BRE would have to be retired behind the town, the town
would be exposed to regular annual flooding. For the agricultural areas of Sirajganj, it was assumed that
breaches would occur at intervals in the 30-year analysis period.
14.    These various assumptions have been adopted for the ICR, but with the values in Table 6 of SAR
Annex 8 being increased by the 24.8% rise in the Construction Cost Index and the livestock values being
increased on the basis of the EGIS survey data.
15.    Crop Losses: In the severely affected areas near a breach, a total WOP loss of one year's crop
was assumed in the SAR, with 320ha and lOOha being affected at Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajganj
respectively. Partial crop losses due to reduced output resulting from sand deposition near the breaches
would occur. In the analysis the SAR values were applied, but with the SAR benefits (crop losses avoided)
per hectare being reduced by 14%, the ratio between the recalculated crop net economic returns in and the
equivalent figure in Table 10 of SAR Annex 8.
16.    Livestock Losses: Significant losses of livestock normally occur in areas severely affected by a
BRE breach. The livestock numbers applied are the SAR figures and the values per head are from the
EGIS field survey, deflated to 1998/99 price levels.
17.    Property and Infrastructure Losses: Property and infrastructure losses resulting from a BRE
breach are the SAR values in Table 6 of SAR Annex 8, adjusted by the change in the Construction Cost
Index.
18.    Losses due to BRE Retirements at Sirajganj: In the SAR the project was assumed to save the
costs of five BRE retirements at Sirajganj over a 30 year period, assuming that those retirements would
occur without the project. About 2.5 km of embankment would be constructed each year for a period of
three years following each breach. An area between 150 ha and 60 ha was expected to remain unprotected
each year as a result of each retirement Flooding on the river side of the BRE would cause the average net
economic return in this area to be substantially reduced, as the cropping pattern would shift to lower-value
- 22 -



crops and cropping intensity would fall. The SAR benefit estimates have been revised on the same basis as
the various benefits discussed above.
D. Reaional Flood Losses Prevented
19.    Breaching of the BRE at Sariakandi/Mathurapara and Sirajganj causes augmentation of flooding in
the Karatoa-Bangali-Ichimati river system. The maximum impact would be caused by breaches at
Sariakandi, which result in deeper regional flooding in the above floodplain as well as incremental flooding
of areas normally protected by the BRE. This impact was expected to be an annual occurrence, because the
expected breach at Sariakandi would not be repaired. After about five years, when erosion has resulted in a
merger of the Bangali and Brahmaputra rivers, deeper regional flooding and a larger incremental area
inundated would result.
20.    Crop Damage: In order to derive a probability distribution of the incremental area flooded,
detailed mathematical modeling work was carried out in the Brahmaputra River Training Studies in the
1990s. The areas assumed to be flooded in different flood events and flood return periods are those shown
in Table 8 of SAR Annex 8
21.    Production Losses Caused by Cropping Pattern Changes: Another possible production loss is
the effect of flooding on cropping systems. Most of the agricultural flood control benefits of the BRE result
from expansion of HYV transplanted Aman paddy in the monsoon season, replacing flood-tolerant but low
yielding broadcast Aman or a mixture of broadcast Aus and Aman. With continued flooding, farmers
would revert to the lower-yielding cropping pattern. The ICR benefit calculations have been based on the
crop areas provided by DAE and crop economic data from the NWMP economics studies.
22.    Property and Infrastructure Damage Avoided: Floods of the magnitude of those of 1987 and
1988 can cause extensive damage to property and infrastructure, although the effects of flooding in most
years are minimal. For the ICR analysis the SAR financial damage value of Tk226/ha was adjusted onto a
1998/99 price basis using the Construction Cost Index and was then converted to economic values by
means of the SCF of 0.90.
E. Canital and O&M Costs
23.    Capital Cost of Project Works: The final capital costs of the two sub-projects are based on the
expenditures actually incurred, expressed in 1998/99 US dollars; these were converted to local currency
values at the prevailing 1998/99 exchange rate of Tk 48.5/US$. Total costs at financial prices were
US$55.5M (Tk.3,308M) for Sariakandi/Mathurapara and US$86.4M (Tk 4,190M) for Sirajganj, the total
for the riverbank protection component as a whole thus being US$141.9M (Tk 7,498M) in 1998/99 prices.
This compares with the total of US$146.8M (a base cost of US$126.7M plus 15.9% physical and price
contingencies) or Tk 5,895M, which can be derived from SAR Table 2.1; the latter figures are at 1994/95
prices and exchange rates, so are not directly comparable. However, using the Bangladesh GDP Deflator to
take account of Taka inflation since 1994/95, the 1998/99 equivalent of the SAR Taka cost of Tk 5,895M-
would be Tk 7,123M. On this basis the final Taka capital cost of Tk 7,498M is only 5% above appraisal
estimates. The Sariakandi/Mathurapara costs were incurred over three years whereas Sirajganj costs were
incurred over four years, because the repairs were not completed until 1999. The above figures are at
- 23 -



financial prices. They were converted to econonic prices using the conversion factors adopted in the
NWMP.
24.    O&M Costs: It is not possible to predict the precise level and timing of future O&M costs,
because of uncertainties concerning possible future flood damage and the repairs that would be required.
For analysis purposes the assumption made is that average O&M costs per annum are normally equivalent
to 1% of capital costs but that in every tenth year (Years 10, 20 and 30) major repairs and other
maintenance work will be required, total O&M costs in that year being equivalent to 50/oof the capital cost
F. Economic Analysis
25.    The analytical summary and detailed computations are presented in Tables 1, 2 and 3 to 18 of the
ICR Economic Analysis Tables, referenced in Annex 7. The results of the ICR analysis summaized in
paragraph 1 of this Annex.3 are discussed in the followirg paragraphs.
26.    The re-estimated EIRRs of 17% for Sirajganj, 15% for Sariakandi/Mathurapara and 16% for the
two sub-projects together are much lower than the respective SAR figures of 45%, 35% and 39%. The
same is true of the re-estimated net present values (NPVs) of US$9M, US$lOM and US$20M in
comparison with the considerably higher SAR NPVs of US$21.6M, US$40.6M and US$62.2M. The main
reasons for the lower ICR returns are the assunption that benefits would start two years later, the cost
increase at Sirajganj and the reduction in agricultural benefit values since appraisal. SAR crop prices and
returns were based on values prevailing in thc early 1990s. Since that time the terms of trade have moved
against the crop sector and, in particular, paddy prices have stagnated or fallen, as Bangladesh has reached
and then maintained virtual self-sufficiency in rice. At present there appears to be little reason for this
situation to change in the near future. The two-year delay assumed for benefits in this ICR analysis also
has a very marked impact on economic performance. For example, taking the SAR cost and return figures,
a two-year benefit delay reduces the overall SAR EIRR from 39%/o to 17%.
27.    Nevertheless, both sub-projects are still economically viable, with EIRRs above the 12%
Bangladesh opportunity cost of capital. One risk to their future performance is, however, that of
maintenance costs being higher than predicted as a result of higher than expected erosion, scour and other
damage to the bank protection works. In the three monsoon seasons since completion of the works in 1999
no major damage has occurre. If, however, it were to become a problem in the future, with the average
annual O&M cost throughout the project life rising threefold, from the 'base case' average of TK 75 M at
1998/99 prices in most years to as much as 3% of capital costs, or Tk 225M (US$4.6M), per annum, the
overall EIRR would still be a satisfactory 12.0%.
29.    With the rapid urban and economic development now taking place in and around Sirajganj, due
especially to the improved transport communications resulting from the opening of the Jamuna Bridge in
1998, and the high degree of vulnerability to erosion of this stretch of the river bank, the risk of Sirajganj
benefits being much lower than assumed in the analysis is small. Apart from a certain amount of
agricultural land loss, virtually all the Sirajganj benefits are non-agricultural. These are easier to predict
with some confidence than are the likely losses from flooding in the 'without project' situation. Most of the
Sariakandi/Mathurapara benefits, on the other hand, are agricultural, largely from the prevention of the
damage from the increased regional flooding which is assumed to result if the sub-project were not built
and a possible merger of the Brahmaputra and the Bangali rivers were not thereby prevented.
30.    As explained in SAR Annex 8, estimation of the flood damage (and thus the benefits from avoiding
-24 -



such damage) resulting from such a merger required detailing modeling work and a number of assumptions
to be made concerning flood i equency, timing, depth and duration and the effects of flooding on crop
yields and cropping patterns. -The resultant benefit estimate is thus unavoidably prone to uncertainty. In
recognition of this problem, sensitivity tests were done with Sariakandi/Mathurapara regional flood damage
avoidance benefits 20% and 40% below the base case level. The EIRRs would then fall to 12.5% and
9.5%.
31.    An analysis was also made of what the Sirajganj EIRR would have been if the 1998 flood damage
had not occurred and the subsequent major repairs had not been necessary. In this case the EIRR would
have been some 5% higher, at 21%.
-25-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating,
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
FY90                        I   IE
FY91                        4   WRS, IEs, SS
FY92                        7   WRS, lEs, EC, OP, SS, AG
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/92/ Appraisal            7   WRS, TEs, EC, OP, SS
FY94/Appraisal             13   WRS, lEs, EC, OP, SS
FY95/ Appraisal            13   WRS, EEs, EC, OP, SS, EV
FY96/Appraisal              6   EC, lEs, OP,
08/95/ Negotiation         10   AGs, lEs, OP, SS
Supervision
05/96/ PSR#I                I   IE (Initial Summary)              S             S
05/96/ PSR#2                I   lE (Update)                       S             S
09/96/ PSR#3                7   WRS, [Es, EC, SS, FMS             S             S
02/97/ PSR#4                3   IEs, SS.                          S             S
06/97/ PSR#5                I   IE ( Update only)                 S             S
08/97/ PSR#6                4   IE, SS and FMSs.                  S             S
04/98/ PSR#7                6   [Es, SS, PR, FMSs.                S             S
08/98/ PSR#8                5   [Es, SS, EC, FMS.                 S             S
11/98/ PSR#9                4   LEs, EC, FA.                      S             S
06/99/ PSR#10               I   IE (Follow-up review)             S             S
01/2000/ PSR#I 1            6   [Es, SS, PR, FMSs.                S             S
06/2000/ PSR#12             9   WRS, EV, IES, SS, PR, FMSs,       S             S
TA.
10/2000/ PSR#13             I   E ( Update only)                  S             S
12/2000/ PSR#14             8   AG, EC, IES, SS, PR, FMSs.        S             S
06/01/ PSR#15               1    E (Update only)                   S            S
07/01/ PSR#16               6   AG, IE, SS, I PR, FMSs.            S            S
ICR
11/2001                     3    WRS, EC of FAO/CPO), IE          S             S
(WB)
AG - Agriculturist, DB - Disbursement, EC - Economist, EO - Ecologist, EV - Environment, FA -Financial Analyst, FMS -
Financial
Management Specialist, IE - Irrigation Engineer, LC - Legal Counsel, OP - Operations, PR - Procurement, SS - Social
Scientist, TA - Team Assistant,
WRS - Water Resources Specialist
- 26 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActualLataest Estimate
__No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                63                        178
Appraisal/Negotiation                    178                        463
Supervision                              307                        574
ICR                                        9                         44
Total                                    557                        1259
Staff Weeks and costs are as of May 31, 2602.
-27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
F Sector Policies                      OH   *SUOM      QN   O NA
O Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
O Financial                            O H  OSU*M      O N  O NA
O Institutional Development            0 H O SUO M     0 N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                         O H  * SU O M   O N  O NA
Social
FS Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
OGender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)         OH   *SUOM      ON    O NA
Social impacts related to resettlement and
RAP, EMP and PEM
F Private sector development           0 H O SUO M     0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HUU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
0 Lending                                           OHSOS Ou OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS       O u    O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
iZ Preparation                                      OHS OS       O u    O HU
I Government implementation performance             O HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
IZ Implementation agency performance                O HS Os      0 U    0 HU
1 Overall                                           OHS OS       0 u   O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Supervision Reports, including Form 590 and PSR from 1996-2001
2. QAG Reports on Supervision Quality (1998, 2000)
3. Project Staff Appraisal Report dated November 10, 1995
4. Development Credit Agreement dated December 21, 1995 and subsequent amendments.
5. Memorandum of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors (November 13, 1995)
6. Memorandum of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors (March 22, 1999)
7. BWDB's Implementation Completion Report - Flood Damage Rehabilitation component (December
2001)
8. BWDB's Implementation Completion Report - River Training component (March 2002).
9. WARPO's Implementation Completion Report for NWMP component (March 2002)
10. ICR Mission Economic Analysis Tables 1-19.
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8.Summary of Borrower's Contribution to the ICR (BWDB Works)
Background:
1.     River bank erosion is a persistent hazard faced by the landowners, cultivators, and population
living adjacent to rivers. Such erosion leads to collapse of the river bank over stretches of several hundred
meters at a time. Along the Brahmaputra River, these erosion rates average about 100 meters each year,
but sometimes increase to as high as 800 meters in a year of high floods. Such erosion has significant
economic and social impacts. Fertile land is lost; and buildings, major bridges, embankments, ferry
terminals for riverbank towns and other essential infrastructure are damaged, often resulting in landlessness
and impoverishment for thousands of households.
2.   The 1998 floods were of unprecedented magnitude and durationr, which inundated two thirds of the
country, affected some 30 million people and caused over 1,100 deaths. They also severely damaged an
estimated 15,000 kilometers of roads, 14,000 schools, hundreds of bridges and culverts and close to
500,000 homes. Damage of flood control, drainage and irrigation infrastructure as assessed by the
Consultants is also enormous - about 2986 km of embankment, 1031 nos. water control structures, 186 km
of erosion protection works. The floods had a substantiaUy adverse impact on economic growth in 1998/99.
Project Objective
3.     The project's principal objective was to prevent the erosion of riparian land at two locations on the
west bank of the Brahmaputra by the construction and maintenance of improved river-bank protection
works which would: (a) protect Sirajganj town's built-up and semi-urban areas from major damage and
cumulative destruction; and (b) prevent the merger of the Brahmaputra and Bangali Rivers in the vicinity of
Sariakandi and consequential increased regional flooding.
4.     Additional objectives being supported by the Supplementaiy Credit were to assist in: (a)
resumption of agricultural and economic activities disrupted by the 1998 floods through repair and
re-construction of flood damaged water control, drainage and irrigation infrastructure; and (b) preparation
of a program to extend river bank protection works to other critical areas along Bangladesh's river system.
'Project Component with Costs
.5.    Projects components and their costs are shown in the following Table under Original and Revised
c.olumns. This includes NWMF Component:
Si.     Components                                                 Amount in USs en uivalent
No.                                                                   Original     Revised
1.   River Traininig/Civil Works                                   133,100,000  143,900,000
2    River Training/Operation & Maintenance                        12,300,000     9,200,000
3    River Training/Resettlement                                    2,100,000     1,500,000
National Water Plan/NWMP and WORPO Strengthening               8,500,000     9,400,000
5    Floods Rehab./Flood Damage Repairs                                          26,000,000
6    River Training/Consultants Services For Preparation Of Follow-Up ProjectVTA  2,000,000
Total (US$)                          156,000,000   192,000,000
- 31 -



Implementation Arrangements
6.     River Training. Component: The responsibility for civil works construction and O&M activities
was with BWDB's Additional Director General (former Member) Inplementation and Additional Director
General (O&M) respectively. A project Director, with the rank of the Project Director/Additional Chief
Engineer established a project Office at Bogra for the entire project period. Two Executive Engineers
assigned to the construction sites at Sariakandi and Sirajganj assisted the Project Director/Chief Engineer.
Executive responsibilities for establishment and subsequent operation of the O&M Unit for river bank
protection works was with the Chief Engineer, North-Western Zone at Rajshahi. The supervision of O&M
Unit was delegated to the Superintending Engineer at Bogra O&M Circle. The Unit's management was
under the Executive Engineer BRE (Specialized) O&M Division located at Sirajganj.  The Deputy
Director (Resettlement) within the Project Management and Resettlement Unit (PMRU) was responsible for
managing the resettlement and rehabilitation program. The cental PMRU was located at Bogra with two
site offices at Sariakandi and Sirajganj. For RAP implementation, the implementation consultants and their
associate NGO assisted the PMRU.
7.     Flood Rehabilitation Component: For rehabilitation of schemes damaged by 1998 floods, the
Director, PMU- Cluster Project, BWDB (former Superintending Engineer, Monitoring -1, BWDB) was
responsible for monitoring and coordinating the activities under the overall guidance of the Additional
Director General (former Member Operation and Maintenance) of BWDB. The Executive Engineers who
have jurisdiction over the BWDB Divisions in which the schemes are located carried out the rehabilitation
of schemes.
Implementation Experiences:
8.     River Training Component: The implementation of the physical works under this component can
be considered satisfactory. All of the physical components were substantially completed by June 1998.
Compared to the contractually stipulated completion dates, this was about five months ahead of schedule.
Considering that the Brahmaputra is a braided and turbulent river with very large seasonal fluctuations in
water levels, it is remarkable that the construction of the revetment works could be completed in two
construction seasons. The technical difficulty of executing the physical components of the project was
further compounded by a very short working season (about 6 months) and by very tight contractual
completion dates.
9.     One of the key success factors in implementing the major civil works of the project was that the
design, engineering, most of the land acquisition, procurement of contractors, and selection of supervision
consultant had been substantially completed by Credit effectiveness.  Furthermore, International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) together with the application of strict pre-qualification (PQ) criteria succeeded
in attracting highly qualified international contractors to the bidding process. This enabled GOB to procure
internationally experienced contractors to execute the civil works contracts.
10.    Although the construction schedule was tight, the overall construction quality of the two contracts
is close to international standards and far superior to the usual standards achieved in Bangladesh. The
riding quality of the dredge fill earthwork and concrete blocks is excellent. There were a number of
construction-related issues that arose during implementation such as: (a) underwater subsoil problems
which led to slope failures in the river training works; (c) redesign of Sirajganj protection works; (d) 1998
flood damage to the completed river training works at Sirajganj. All of the construction related issues were
successfully resolved.
- 32 -



11.   Resettlement Action and Environmental Management Plans. The implementation of the social
and environmental components of the project can be deemed satisfactory despite few initial teething
problems. To implement this component about 120 hectares of land were acquired, of which 37.70
hectares are government owned (khas). In total 3236 persons were affected to varying degrees in terms of
loss of land and income by its implementation and 3209 of them (99.1%) has been fully compensated. In
total 421 Homestead were affected and all of those have been relocated. It must also be stressed that it was
the first time that BWDB has implemented the RAP for such a project. Therefore, the implementation of
the RAP broke new ground and was a learning experience for all parties involved. This was largely
successful, but that there have been significant implementations difficulties, concerns have also been raised
related to governance issues.
12.    To mitigate the environmental impacts of the project, an EMP was developed for implementation
during the life of the project. Some of the social/environental mitigation measures identified in the EMAP
and implemented under the project were: (a) reduction of construction related impacts; by using
environmental friendly constructions materials (b) fisheries mitigation through a fish-pass in the 6 km link
embankment at Mathurapara; (c) health and sanitation (d) establishment of a riverside park for recreational
facilities along Sirajganj Hard Point's free space and (e) Tree planted along the river side over the earthen
embankment of hard point and over the link B'tE.
13. Flood Rehabilitation Component: The project was originally scheduled to be implemented in two
phases: (i) emergency works to be completed before 1999 monsoon; and (ii) rehabilitation of other works to
its pre-1998 flood condition. But the phases were not taken into consideration during implementation, as
all the works were felt necessary to be executed as early as possible. The supervision consultants
commenced their services on March 15,1999. Overall 100% progress was achieved by December 31, 2001
and repairs completed in all 39 schemes.
Major factors affecting the Project Implementation
14.   River Training Component: Implementation of the major civil works components was impeded
due to the following main reasons:
1998 Flood: The works at Sariakandi & Mathurapara (Contract Bl) was completed by the Contractor by
June 1998 and were handed over to BWDB in phases between July to September. The Hard Point at
Sirajganj (Contract B2) scheduled to be completed by November 1998 were nearing completion when
damage occurred to the revetment during the 1998 floods. However, the repairs were completed
successfully by June 1999. Had there been no flood damage during 1998 flood, the work could be
completed as scheduled.
15.   Flood Rehabilitation Component: The project implementation was hampered initially in the
tbendering process. Introduction of NCB documents by World Bank could not be followed properly by
'BWDB, which resulted in re-tendering and in some cases led to mis-procurement of some packages.
16. Very Small Size of Contracts: In most cases, the contract sizes were very small as is the practice
with BWDB resulting in 321 nos. of contracts. The average contract value was only about Tk. 3.6 million
(US$66,800) and more than 96% of the contract value was less than Tk.10.0 million (US $200,000). The
contract administration of this huge number of contracts was a difficult task including their implementation
and monitoring. Justification for small contracts may be that the BWDB projects are labor intensive and
not located in a contiguous way.
- 33 -



17. Payment to the Contractor Although the works were scattered all over the country, the payments
were made through a single pay office, located in one place at Bogra and that too not in a central location.
Payment procedure was also very cumbersome. Bills prepared in the field were to be certified by BWDB
and Consultant Then those were sent to Regional Accounting Centre (RAC) at Bogra for payment of GOB
share and advising Bangladesh Bank for payment from Special Account Then, RAC prepared and sent the
reimbursement application to Executive Engineer (EE) of the respective Divisions, EE to Consultants,
Consultants to PD, RBPP and lastly, PD, RBPP to the World Bank. All these offices are located at
different places.
Outcome of the Project:
18.   River Training Component      lhe construction of improved river training works at
Sariakandi-Mathurapara and Sirajganj helped to prevent losses from river erosion since 1998, which was
almost an regular phenomena in the past before these improved river-bank protection works were built
The completion of the protective works in 1998 has prevented the merger of Bangali and Brahmaputra
rivers in the vicinity of Sariakandi and regional flood damages behind the Brahmaputra Right Embankment
(BRE) in the Karotoa-Bangali rivers system. Construction of fish-pass structure also served the purpose
to mitigate declining flood plain fisheries behind the Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) through
seasonal fish migration. The project has produced positive impact on the area in term of growth in
agricultural production, income and employment opportunity.
19.   Flood Rehabilitation Component: From technical point of view, performances of the restoration
works are found to be satisfactory except for a few locations, such as Chandpur, Kumarkhali, Bagerhat,
and Manu. Bank protection works of Chandpur Irrigation Scheme (all 12 contract packages) including
substantial emergency works have failed completely. Economic impact of the repair works has been
assessed in 6 representative schemes out of total 39. The pre-project conditions have been restored in all
the sub-projects. Flood protection goal of the concerned areas have been achieved. Homestead, crops and
properties are safe and commercial activities have been restored.
Sustainability:
20.    River Training Component. Under BWDB's river training component, the protection works at two
locations (so called "hard points" at Sariakandi-Mathurapara and Sirajganj) have been fully completed to a
high constructions standard by international contractors. All these works were substantially completed by
June 1998. The exceptional 1998 floods tested the completed works, and all, excepting Sirajganj hard
point, have performed well from a technical point of view. The completed revetment work at Sirajganj was
severely damaged for a substantial length (about 320 m, 11 % of total length) during the monsoon floods in
August and September 1998. The damages were repaired in 1999, and since then no failure has occurred.
The integrity of the revetment work is regularly monitored and remedial actions are taken when needed.
21.    The sustainability of a project of this type depends on the proper monitoring and maintenance of
the infrastructures. BWDB's Specialized O&M Unit has been established in 1998 and is functional with
necessary core equipment for monitoring and maintenance. During the project implementation period, the
Unit satisfactorily carried out Monitoring & Maintenance (M&M) activities in collaboration with private
sector specialized agencies like Surface Water Modeling Centre (SWMC) and Environmental and
Geographic Information System (EGIS). BWDB has prepared an Operation Plan and decided to contract
out monitoring of the changes in the river plan form and its morphology in the vicinity of "hard points" to
suitable organization under annual frame contract. The Government is committed to provide necessary
support and budget for monitoring & maintenance (M&M) for its sustainability.
-34 -



22.    The improved river training works, completed under this project is sustainable in its present entity.
But for it its long-term sustainability, stabilization of the entire stretch of Brahmaputra right bank (about
220 km from Chilmari to Hurasagar) needs to be taken up in phases. BWDB completed Brahmaputra
River Training Study (BRTS, May 1993) under IDA Cr. 1870-BD and this project has implemented three
priority locations, out of 27 identified sites. In addition, China-Bangladesh Joint Expert Study (1991)
Study recommended total confinement of the river from the outset. Ongoing pilot project - Active Flood
Plain Management (FAP21/22) has experimented on various approach including low cost ones. Therefore,
in the light of Development Strategy under National Water Management Plan (June 2001), a long-term
plan will have to be developed and implemented in phases.
23.    Flood Rehabilitation Component: Under BWDB's flood rehabilitation component, the repairs
were undertaken in 39 schemes, affected by 1998 flood and are expected to be fully completed by
'November 2001. The government provides fund from its revenue budget for their maintenance, which in
most of the years cover 3040%/o of its actual needs. Given this budget situation, the Government/BWDB is
irying to find alternate means of managing the schemes in a better way. Since 1999, the government with
the assistance from World Food Program (WFP) is working towards better organizing the preventive
maintenance in selected BWDB schemes with declining scarce resources under Rural Development
Program. This program will continue till 2003. Meanwhile, the Govermnent has approved "the Guidelines
ior Participatory Water Management (April 2001)" and BWDB intends to apply it for improved service
dlelivery on the ground involving the User's representatives in operation and maintenance of the schemes.
]3WDB intends to pursue these aspects of operation and maintenance under the proposed Water
MIanagement Improvement Project (WMIIP), currently under preparation.
EZ.valuation of Consultant's performances
24.    River Training Component. The objectives of consultants' services were primarily to assist GOB
end BWDB to implement the project as efficiently and effectively as possible. A team of Construction
',upervision Consultant (CSC) was designated as 'Engineer' was selected to supervise the two major civil
works contracts including imnplementation of Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The Consultants site
supervision team consisted of international experts and local engineers & staff. One third of the local
engineering personnel were seconded to the Consultant's supervision team from BWDB for training and
supervision of works & quality assurance with 'Lien' from the GoB. The supervision consultant played a
critical role in providing the necessary coordination in ensuring that the civil works were being executed to
the appropriate specifications and within the stipulated contractual time frame. The consultant support to
EtWDB in managing all contractual related matters and in implementing the RAP, and EMP were in
general very satisfactory. Their timely role in diagnosing the causes of failure of 1998 flood damage to
Sirajganj Revetment was very effective and the repair work done on the CSC furnished and BWDB
approved design in a minimum possible time.
25. Flood Rehabilitation Componentr Consultant's overall performance is satisfactory. Their main
n-sponsibilities and accomplishments are: (i) review of 1998 Flood Damage Assessment of Infrastructure
Report; (ii) preparation of quality assurance and environmental management plans; (iii) review of the
designs prepared by the BWDB Design Office and suggested modification wherever necessary; (iv)
assisting BWDB in overall monitoring and quality assurance of the works through inspection and checks at
a regular interval; (v) review and recommending proposal for variation of works wherever necessary; (vi)
preparation of monthly progress reports on the basis of progress of individual event of a contract package
irn a methodical way through computerized program; (vii) certification of contractor's invoices and
withdrawal applications, and (viii) preparing draft Project Implementation Completion Report.
- 35 -



Evaluation of Bank's Performance
26.    River Training Component: The World Banks task team played a vital role in facilitating the
implementation of the project successfully. The Bank's supervision of the project was adequate and
appropriate. The Bank staff supervised all the components of the project regularly. The team, comprising
staff from different discipline, visited and reviewed the progress of works. In the process, the team.
pro-actively identified various implementation issues and assisted in resolving those. They advised the
concerned officials of GoB and CSC to implement the work as per IDA standard procedures. The Bank
staff periodically visited the project sites and discussed implementation with the BWDB officials, local
administration and stakeholders, which helped in smooth execution of the works. Bank's Supervision
Mission also visited the project sites regularly as per planned schedules.
27.   In addition to the two large ICB contracts, rest of the contract packages was executed under
National Competitive Bidding following IDA standard bidding document. As the IDA guidelines were
different from GoB guidelines in some respects and both the BWDB officials and contractor were not well
acquainted with those, the procurement activities could not progress as planned. As a consequence, some
contract packages were declared mis-procurement on the ground of apprehend collusion and in some cases
procedural deviation. A case in point is contract Packages 20/A and 21 for survey equipment, which were
declared misprocurement simply for BWDB's disagreement for not awarding the contract with adjusted
price for delay in award. IDA was requested to review the decisions on the misprocurement, but IDA was
rigid and maintained their earlier position. The IDA approach was focused more on the process than the
goal of the project, such as sustainable arrangement for Operation and Maintenance.
28.    Disbursement: In general, the withdrawal applications as well as the direct payments were
handled mostly in time. Response from the Bank regarding withdrawal application & other financial
aspects was satisfactory.
29.    Flood Rehabilitation Component. Bank's involvement in the initial stage was much intense as
prevailing bidding procedure of BWDB was replaced by the introduction of National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) by the Bank. This required a number of formal and informal meetings with BWDB and MOWR
The Bank undertook prior review of twelve contracts above the threshold value of US$200,000 and ex-post
review of the sample contracts for the remaining ones. A number of contract packages were found to
consistent with IDA guidelines and those contracts were declared mis-procured. The Eight contracts were
declared as misprocurement and the contract amount involved is Tk. 28,094,298 (US$497,244.0
equivalent). Based on further assessment by an independent audit team (Chartered Accountants Firm),
engaged by the Bank, another 59 contracts for an amount of about Tk.133,106,654.0 have again been
declared mis-procured.
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
30.    River Training Component: The government handled the project implementation efficiently. The
contracts were finalized within reasonable time. The Construction Supervision Consultants (CSC) was also
engaged within reasonable time. As per provision in the project (SAR, para 2.25), BWDB Engineers and
other technical staff were seconded to the Construction Supervision Team. They were part of CSC's team
and actively participating in supervision and quality assurance activities. The senior engineers acquired
knowledge about contract administration under FIDIC which will be helpful in implementation of large
construction contracts. The BWDB/MOWR responded very quickly to repair the damage of 1998 flood,
where about 320m stretch of revetment in Sirajganj collapsed. GoB approached the IDA for financing and
- 36 -



finalized the design with the help of committee and repaired the damage within shortest possible time.
.31.   BWDB tried to make payment to the contractors timely so that work continued unhindered. In
spite of constraint on GoB resources, counterpart funds were made available mostly on time. Besides,
Govt. tired to resolve all issues related to implementation timely and complies with all the Credit covenants.
32.    Flood Rehabilitation Component: BWDB started the work in right earnest at the beginning of the
project. Tendering process for most of the packages was started before the Consultants were on board, but
it faltered in the beginning due to the introduction of the World Bank's trial edition of Standard Bidding
Document (SBD) for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Since the requirements in this newly
introduced SBD were far more stringent than the government bidding documents, both the BWDB officials
and the bidders faced difficulties in working with these documents and that too in an emergency situation.
All the repairs have been fully completed by December 31, 2001.
'13. The quality management aspects during execution of civil works have improved. Failure to make
timely payment to the contractors, BWDB found it difficult to exercise their control over time related to
construction administration and the imposition of liquidated damages in accordance to the contract clause
clue to non completion of work in time.
lKey Lessons Learned
34.    River Training Component: Key lessons among others from this project component are the
following:
Quality at entry. The RBPP is a clear example of a well-designed and very thoroughly prepared project,
which was ready for implementation. Project planning and preparation were intensive and lengthy. The
project preparation took about two years from 1991 to 1992 and the initial appraisal was made in 1992,
vvhich was updated in 1995. This ensured that the project was at a very high state of implementation
readiness once it became effective. For example, before IDA Board presentation, two major civil works
bids and consultant services proposals had been received and evaluated, giving accurate cost estimates for
the project. By effectiveness, all of the construction and consultant contracts for the project had been
signed. This high state of procurement and engineering readiness was achieved despite the fact that
because of the changing morphology of the Brahmaputra River, the final location of the "hard points" at
tvo locations (Sariakandi and Mathurapara) had to be adjusted in late 1995.
Social & environmental components. The preparation and more importantly implementation of the social
and environmental components of large civil works projects must be given the same attention as the
preparation of the physical components. In the case of the RBPP the real needs, in terms of resources, to
inplement the social and environmental components of the project was not appreciated until well into
project implementation.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Because of ICB, GOB was able to procure, in a cost effective
manner, intemationally experienced contractors to execute technically challenging civil works contracts.
F.owever, ICB alone, without a strict PQ process, would not have resulted in the procurement of the
suitably qualified contractor at the lowest possible price to execute the works. Thus the lesson learned
firom implementing the RBPP is that a combination of ICB together with a very strict PQ process produces
the best results.
Supervision consultant as the 'Engineer. In the case of the RBPP the role of the supervision consultant
- 37 -



as the empowered Engineer worked well. The Engineer was given the necessary powers and independence
to operate as the engineer and this reduced payment delays and potential problems with the contractors.
Thus for a large complex project like the RBPP the role of the supervision consultant as the engineer can be
effective if properly managed.
Transfer of Technology. For large project like RBPP, provision for secondment of staff from the
implementing agency to the consultant's team should be continued as a part of technology transfer.
35.    Flood Rehabilitation Component. Key lessons among others from this project component are the
following:
Consultant's Role. Review of design by Consultant leads to bmplacency for both Consultant and BWDB
Design Office. Consultant's responsibility needs to be increased
Size of Contract Packages. Fragmentation of works into uuiall packages is to be avoided even if it is
scattered, but situated within a reasonable distance. This will not necessarily affect the labor-intensive
nature of the work very much. Contract administration, construction monitoring and supervision will
improve considerably by this.
Summary of Borrower's Contribuffon to the ICR (WARPO - Strengthening of Water Sector
Planning)
1.     The 1964 EPWAPDA Water Master Plan proposed a major programme of investments to control
Bangladesh's rivers and develop large-scale Flood Control and Drainage (FCD) and surface water
irrigation projects. In contrast, the World Bank's 1972 Land and Water Resources sector study downplayed
major FCD and surface water irrigation, instead recommending that emphasis be given to public investrnent
in minor irrigation (low lift pumps and deep tube wells) and small scale FCD projects. From 1983 to 1991,
UNDP-supported national water resources planning was done by Master Plan Organization (MPO).
National Water Plan Phase-I was published in 1986 while Phase-IH was published in 1991. In 1992 MPO
was transformed into Water Resources Planning Organization (WARPO) with the mandate of macro-level
planning of water resources of the country.
2.     After catastrophic flood of 1987 and 1988, the international community helped Bangladesh in
preparing a comprehensive and coordinated action plan against flood. The resulting works is known as
Flood Action Plan (FAP) and the organization responsible for implementing and administering the works is
termed as Flood Plan Coordination Organization (FPCO). FAP comprises eleven major components (five
regional planning studies; four studies focusing on specific programs - the Brahmaputra Right Bank
Embankment, the Coastal Embankment, Dhaka Urban Protection, Secondary Cities Protection; two studies
focusing on non-structural programs- flood forecasting and flood preparedness) and sixteen supporting
studies and pilot activities. As a follow-up action of FAP, Government of Bangladesh (GoB) prepared
Bangladesh Water and Flood Management Strategy (BWFMS) in September, 1995 which sets two
immediate tasks - a National Water Policy and a National Water Management Plan.
3.     The Govemment undertook the preparation of National Water Management Plan (NWMP) in
mid-March, 1998 under a loan agreement between GoB and IDA (World Bank). National Water Policy
was prepared and published by GoB in January, 1999. WARPO was the implementing agency of the task.
The preparation of NWMP was completed in November 2001. The components of the National Water
- 38 -



Management Plan Project (NWMPP) was (i) Preparation of NWMP, (ii) Strengthening of WARPO, and
(iii)  Establishment of a National Water Resources Database (NWRD).
4.     Cost of NWMP: (a) 5.72 million SDR as per development credit agreement (DCA) (IDA
contribution) (b) 0.30 million US$ from Canadian grant (c) 0.19 million US$ from the Netherlands and (d)
Taka 131.74 lakh from GoB. The NWMP is being implemented under the direct supervision of Water
Resources Planning Organization (WARPO). Ministry of Water Resources (MoWR), Government of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh (GoB) is responsible for top supervision of the job. Moreover, World
Bank on behalf of IDA, is also advising on the implementation of the component as one of the member of
the Tripatriate Team (the other two members are MoWR and the Consultants). From time to time IDA is
also fielding peer reviewer and Review Mission to monitor the progress of the component.
5.     A Consultants Team consisting of M/S Halcrow and Partners in association with Mott Mac
Donald, DHI, Natural Resources Consulting Engineers Inc BETS, EPC, HCL, ECA, Proshika, ASOD
with assistance and support from SWMC, EGIS and BIDS is responsible for implementation of the three
tasks of the NWMPP. The Consultants team has subcontracted part of their job to Surface Water
Modelling Centre (SWMC) and Environmental and Geographic Information System Support Project for
Water Sector Planning (EGIS). Furthermore, MoWR has appointed International and National Water
Policy Advisory Group (WPAG) and Independent Panel of Experts (IPoE) to -review the outputs of the
component and to advice both the MoWR and WARPO on the formulation of NWMP. MoWR has also
constituted a "Contact Group" taking experts members from the Government/Autonomous Agencies to
advice WARPO on the NWMP formulation. A high power Steering Committed has been formed to guide
the NWMPP taking members from different Ministries of the Government, head/representative of the
Agencies/University/World Bank. This Committee is the highest body to decide on technical matter of
NWMPP.
6.     Supreme authority to take decision on NWMP is the Executive Committee of National Water
Resources Council (ECNWRC) and National Water Resources Council (NWRC). ECNWRC is headed by
the Ministry of Water Resources and NWRC is headed by the Prime Minister of the Government of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh.
7.     The outputs of NWMPP are: The Inception Report, Issues for the NWMP Report, Topic Papers
(Reports) - 15 Nos., Draft Development Strategy Reports (11 Volumes), Draft Development Strategy
Reports (2 Volumes), Development Strategy of NWMP (Report), Draft National Water Management Plan.
The draft NWMP was recommended by the Executive Committee of National Water Resources Council
,(ECNWRC) meeting on 2nd February, 2002. National Water Resources Council (NWRC) is the final
authority to approve NWMP and hopefully, NWRC will approve it.
B.    Institutional Strengthening of WARPO: 42 officials, from MoWR (10), Ministry of Planning (7),
:[MED (2), JRC (I) and WARPO (22) received study tour/training on IWRM under the Projects. Besides,
local training for WARPO officials was also arranged under the project Working atmosphere in WARPO
lis now very good with improved computer facilities, office accommodation, library facilities and WARPO
web-site. An updated EIA guideline has been prepared together with the guidelines for the participatory
water management at national level. A Five Year Work Plan for WARPO has also been prepared. WARPO
is also maintaining an excellent database for the water sector of the country.
19.    Following Factors affected implementation of the NWMPP:
(a)    Implementation arrangement of the Project: WARPO was responsible for overall
- 39 -



implementation of the project under the guidance of Ministry of Water Resources. The
project was monitored guided and advised by IPOE, WPAG, Steering Committee,
Contract Group and Tripartite Team.
(b)    Ganges Water Treaty: Based on the recommendations of the International Seminar held
in March, 1998 in Dhaka and to hamess the available water secured by the Ganges Water
Treaty signed between Bangladesh and India in December, 1996, the NWMP Project has
to accommodate special studies on OGDA.
(c)    Modification on the outputs of the Projects:  In agreement with IPoEs, WPAGs,
Tripatriate Team, the Outputs (Reports) have been changed as:
Inception Report     -      Unchanged
Option Report        -      Changed to    : Issues of NWMP
Topic Paper (TPs)
Draft Development Strategy
(DDS) Report
Development Strategy Report
National Water Resources Plan - Unchanged
The changes in outputs affected both time and resources of the project.
10.    The key element of sustainability of the project is continuation of the capacity of WARPO that has
been achieved during NWMP project implementation phase. By this time, WARPO has adopted a five year
work plan (2002-2006) that will help to uphold and further improve the capacity building of WARPO. This
will also ensure and equip WARPO to take the responsibility of updating NWMP in future (considering
physical, financial and institutional aspects). The main constraint WARPO cunrently faces is lack of
permanent office. However, future prospects for WARPO are encouraging provided the above constraint
overcomes.
11.    Traditionally, the Consultants have worked independently (without interacting with WARPO
professionals). WARPO and the Consultants jointly developed a mechanism to share views (among
WARPO professional and Consultants) on different NWMP issues which was later dropped due to time
and financial constraints. In absence of a mechanism to interact with the Consultants during plan
formulation stage, divergence of opinion came on some issues between the Consultants and WARPO. Four
international and five national IPoEs worked under the Project. Of them, one intemational IPoE was
financed by CIDA while another by GoN. ToR of the jobs of the IPoEs were formulated in a very brief and
general terms; specific way of providing inputs to the process by the IPoE members were not there. As a
result, their services could not be utilized as per desired level.
12.    Major part of the cost of NWMPP came from the loan agreement (IDA Credit No. 2791-BD)
between IDA and GoB. Performance of the Bank (IDA/World Bank) was excellent in respect of release of
fund and response of the Bank on amendment of Credit agreement from the Borrowers side. But the
response of the Bank on management of the Project was, somehow, slow; clearance of the Bank on the
proposed 2nd Amendment of Contract of Consultancy Services between WARPO and the consortium of
Consultants took unusual lengthy time. Moreover, concept of involving IPoEs and WPAGs on planning
process suggested by the Bank was proven not very effective.
-40 -



13.    On behalf of GoB, WARPO was entrusted for the management of the Project. The Project started
on 15th March, 1998 and completed on 30th November, 2001. During this period, Director General (DG)
of the Organization has been changed twice; 1st time on 10-03-1999 and 2nd time on 17-09-2000. For
project duration of forty four and half months, changing the top manager after twelve months of project's
commencement and again repeating the same on 30th month of commencement did not create favorable
environment for the project. A project manager from beginning to the end of the project could result better
DUtpUt from the project. ToR of the project; though prepared by WARPO and vetted by World Bank and
approved by the MoWR; did not provide the scope of interacting GoB personals (WARPO Professionals)
with the Consultants on the issues of NWM. The process was initiated but the Consultants, after a few
meetings, disagreed to continue it on the ground that this process is not allowing them to work
independently with their professional standard and time and resources is also not enough for the process.
14.    The following lessons, learnt from the experience of this project, will guide WARPO/GoB in future
for similar projects: (i) ToR of the study should contain provision for interaction with GoB project
;oersonals and the Consultants on each important phase/issues of the project so that GoB's views are
reflected in project documents; (ii) All professionals including top manager working in the project must not
'be transferred out of the project unless the Authority is compelled to do so; (iii) Concept of IPoE/WPAG's
involvement in project should be reviewed seriously because of their general (not specific) level of
performance; and (iv) Emphasis should be put to recruit as much as possible the national experts in state of
internal experts.
- 41 -



89'                      90°                      91°                      92'
BANGLADESH
*\P,l :5\.ai><                   RIVER BANK PROTECTION PROJECT
(INCLUDING EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY AREA)
-26- /Tho  9=)'l          N       S          \1                      LOCATION OF APPRAISED SUBPROJECTS               26-
1998 FLOOD INUNDATION AREAS (AS OF SEPTEMBER 10, 1998):
RongP ).                             SEVERE FLOODING (MORE THAN 50 cm. ABOVE DANGER LEVEL)
MODERATE FLOODING (UP TO 50 cm. ABOVE DANGER LEVEL)
\  z r  r>.m  > l  < ~~~~~~~~ 60           1     | ~~NORMAL FLOODING (WI.THIN 50 cm. Of DANGER LEVEL)
n >4; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23'
ndk               NO FLOODING~~~~~~~~-0Bndr~ 
cnyoiCerm~~~~~~~~~:rmanonshown~~~~ouce Floo Foeatn and Warnin Cete ,6OWDBz \\\\    ,Wn*      i DHK
X  4 =~~~~~~~~ |                           ' O   , ~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT CAPITALS   7 
%  8       :     :_____ I___________          DIVISION  BOUNDARIES                   3
z5                                     0         25        50Miles   '    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
E  Bay of Bengal    9                      9p°                      911                      92      \\ n
KushIi        Ma  kain~~~9'                  91                       9'









IMAGING
Report No.:         24323
Type:     ICR



