Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2791-1 BD 
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(River Bank Protection Project)
between
PEOPLE’S  REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  May 24, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 2791-1 BD 
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (River Bank Protection Project) dated December 21, 1995 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards financing of the project, to assist in financing the rehabilitation 
of other water control works damaged by the May-September 1998 floods (the Floods) and 
preparing a follow-up project for riverbank protection by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty-two million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
32,800,000); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through \0bDecember 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (15) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below: 
"15.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on\0bJune 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
Sub-paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
"(a)
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from such territories."
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
addition of a new Subsection (k) as follows: 
"(k)
‘Amending Agreement’ means this agreement amending the Development 
Credit Agreement."
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred eleven 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 111,200,000), being 
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Credit, with each withdrawal 
valued by the Association as of the date of such withdrawal. The Credit shall 
be in 
two tranches, the first tranche being an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventy-eight million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 78,400,000) (the First Tranche) and the second tranche being an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-two million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 32,800,000)."
Section 1.04. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, is amended to 
read as follows: 
"Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purpose of Parts A, B, C, E, F and G 
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a BWDB Special Account in 
Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the BWDB Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purpose of Part D of the Project, open 
and maintain in dollars a WARPO Special Account in Bangladesh Bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the WARPO Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(d)
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account, or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially 
be 
charged against the First Tranche until that tranche has been exhausted, 
and 
shall thereafter be charged against the Second Tranche." 
Section 1.05. In Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Closing 
Page  3
Date is amended to read December 31, 2001.
Section 1.06. A proviso is added at the end of subsection 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: 
"; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Second Tranche 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement." 
Section 1.07. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is revised as per 
Annex 1 to this Amending Agreement.  
Section 1.08. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is revised as per 
Annex 2 to this Amending Agreement. 
Section 1.09. Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as per 
the provisions of Annex 3 to this Amending Agreement.
Section 1.10. In Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, new paragraph 
15, 16 and 17 are added to read: 
"15. In the event that land or right to land is required for carrying 
out Part F of the Project, such land or right to land shall not be acquired 
except with the prior approval of the Association. 
16. The Borrower shall employ consultants for planning, designing and 
supervision of construction for works to be carried out under Part F of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement. 
17. The Borrower shall ensure that the works to be carried out under 
Part F of the Project shall be selected in accordance with criteria and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association." 
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action, and the Amending 
Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of Counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.  
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written. 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Page  4
By /s/ Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By  /s/ Frederick T. Temple
Country Director, Bangladesh
Annex 1 SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works (other  90,000,000
83%
than under Part C of 
the Project)
(2)
Vehicles and 
100% of foreign
equipment for:
expenditures,
100% of local
(a) Part B of the    1,510,000
expenditures
    Project
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local
(b) Part D of the      370,000
expenditures for
    Project
other items
procured locally
(c) Parts A and E of   420,000
    the Project
(3)
(a) Consultants’     6,440,000
100%
    services for 
    Parts A, B, C
    E, F, and G of
    the Project and
    training under
    Part E of the
    Project
(b) Consultants’ services 4,930,000
100%
    and overseas training
    for Part D of the Project
(4)
Resettlement 
    330,000
 
50%
expenditures under 
Part C of the Project
(5)
Operation and
  1,000,000
85% through FY98,
maintenance costs 
65% in FY99
under Part B of 
and 45% thereafter
the Project
(6)
Unallocated
        6,200,000
TOTAL
    111,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  5
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" mean expenditures in the currency of the  
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operations and maintenance costs" means salaries as well as 
cost of materials and equipment operating expenses incurred by the operation and 
maintenance unit of BWDB established under Part B of the Project; and 
(d)
the term "resettlement expenditures" means expenditures for the 
resettlement or rehabilitation of the Affected Persons and shall comprise (i) civil 
works expenditures for establishment of temporary or permanent resettlement areas, 
including provision of community facilities; (ii) provision of transition grants to 
cover loss of income during resettlement; and (iii) NGO programs to assist 
re-establishment or job training.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures (i) prior to the date of this agreement 
under the first tranche; and (ii) for contracts placed before January 15, 1999 and to 
be financed under Part F of the Project.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for civil 
works, vehicles and equipment not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000, for consulting 
services by firms costing less than $100,000 each, for individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 each and for all operation, maintenance, training and resettlement 
expenditures under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
5.
(a)
The Borrower shall ensure that all withdrawal applications under 
categories (1), (4) and (5) of this Schedule, excluding those against the civil works 
under Part A.2 of the Project, shall include a certification from the consultants 
referred to in paragraphs 3(a), 5(b) or 16 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Agreement concerning the appropriateness and eligibility of the expenditures and the 
adequacy of the quality of works. 
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that withdrawal applications under category 1 
for Part A.2 of the Project shall include a certification from the BWDB quality 
assurance team, independent of the project office, concerning the appropriateness and 
eligibility of the expenditures and the adequacy of the quality of works.
Annex 2 SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (i) to provide protection against erosion 
damage to Siraganj town and environs, (ii) to prevent a merger of the Brahmaputra and 
Bangali rivers in the vicinity of Sariakandi and consequential annual flooding, (iii) 
to improve BWDB’s accounting and management information systems, (iv) to develop 
national institutions for improved water sector planning.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
River Bank Protection Works
1.
Construction of river bank works near Siraganj, Sariakandi and Mathurapara, and 
rehabilitation of groynes at Kalitola and Raniganj.
2.
Realignment of about 8 km of embankment to join the Kalitola groyne with the 
riverbank protection works at Mathurapara, including provision of a fish-pass 
structure.
Part B:
Operations and Maintenance 
Operation and maintenance of works under Part A.1 above, through the 
establishment, equipping and funding of an operations and maintenance unit of BWDB for 
riverbank protection works and the training of the staff thereof.
Page  6
Part C:
Resettlement
Carrying out of a program of resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons.
Part D:
Strengthening of Water Sector Planning
Strengthening the water sector planning though (i) the merger of FPCO into 
WARPO, (ii) the creation within WARPO of capacity for environmental management and 
participatory planning, and (iii) the development of a national management plan, 
including the provision of technical assistance and training therefor.
Part E:
Strengthening of the Accounting and Management Information System of 
BWDB
Strengthening the effectiveness of (i) regional accounting centers, and (ii) 
management information and communications systems of BWDB, including the provisions of 
equipment and local training.
Part F:
Repairing Damages due to 1998 Floods
Rehabilitating flood control, drainage, irrigation and erosion control 
facilities damaged due to the Floods in some 40 schemes all over the country by 
repairing of embankments water control structures and other protection works.
Part G:
Preparing a follow-up River Bank Protection Project
Preparing a long-term plan for protection of river banks against erosion, 
feasibility studies and design of protection works for implementation under a 
follow-up project.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
Annex 3
The following amendments are made to Schedule 3 of the Development Credit 
Agreement:
A.
Paragraph 1 of Part C is amended to read as follows:
"Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures"
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Contracts for works under Part A.2 of the Project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 in the aggregate may be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
Such works shall be offered only to domestic contractors of Class A 
registration (as defined by the law of the Borrower) or foreign contractors 
meeting equivalent standards.  Earthworks shall be grouped into one or two 
contracts.  Bidders for a separate contract for the fish-pass structure shall 
be prequalified.
(b)
Contracts for civil works or construction materials for operation 
and maintenance under Part B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or less per contract and $2,000,000 or less in the aggregate, may 
be 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(c)
All contracts for works under Part F of the Project may be awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(d)
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Paragraph 1:
(i)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages to 
attract national bidders.
Page  7
(ii)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(aa)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for 
the submission of bids;
(bb)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee;
(cc)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding 
process;
(dd)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a registration process 
is 
required, a foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated bidder shall be 
given a reasonable opportunity of registering, without let or hindrance;
(ee)
all bids for a particular contract shall be opened at a single 
site in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
(ff)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;
(gg)
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally 
negotiated rates;
(hh)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; and 
(ii)
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders.
B.
Paragraph 3 of Part C is amended to read as follows:
"3.
Force Account
The operation and maintenance activities of the unit established under 
Part B of the Project and minor repairs to gates and structures under Part F 
of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or less each up 
to an equivalent of US$500,000 in the aggregate, may be carried out by force 
account."
C.
Paragraphs 3, 4, and 5 are added to the Section II to read as follows:
Part A:
General
3.
Consultants’ services for Parts F and G of the Project shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the 1997 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of the Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
4.
Consultants’ services for Part G of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 1997 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, 
and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Single Source Selection 
5.
Services for Part F of the Project  may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the 1997 Consultant Guidelines.
A new Section III is added to read as follows:
Page  8
Section III:
Procurement for Financing Under Second Tranche 
Notwithstanding any other provision set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement as amended, the goods, works and services 
required for items to be financed under the Second Tranche shall be procured 
from the Participating Countries only.
