Report No. PID6544
Project Name                     Lithuania-Health Project (@)
Region                           Europe And Central Asia
Sector                           Health, Nutrition, & Population
Project Id                       LTPA35780
Borrower                         Government Of Lithuania
Implementing Agency              Ministry Of Health
Gedimino Av. 27
2600 Vilnius
Contact: Mr. Kostas Vilimas
Phone: + 370 2 22 75 87
Fax:   + 370 2 22 65 96
Date This Pid Prepared           August 25, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         March 22, 1999
Projected Board Date             November 29, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background
Lithuania is the southernmost and largest of the Baltic countries. It covers
65,000 square kilometers and has a population of about 3.7 million. After
severe economic and social shocks in the initial years after independence
(1990), the economy stabilized and growth began in 1995. The growth rate
reached 5.7 percent in 1997 and GDP was estimated at US$2,577 per capita.
Lithuania is on track for completing a successful transition to a market
economy and membership in the European Union over the course of the next
decade.
Lithuania's health profile is similar to that of other CEE/FSU countries.
Aggregate health indicators have deteriorated in comparison to the pre-
transition period and there is a significant gap in health status compared to
EU countries. The natural growth rate of the population has been negative since
1994, because mortality has exceeded birth rate. Several factors contribute to
the dynamics of declining health status --worsening socio-economic conditions
during transition, deteriorating behavioral health determinants (alcohol
related injuries, poisoning, suicides), increased mortality from preventable
diseases, and a high prevalence of smoking and unhealthy diets. The Lithuania
health system suffers from problems similar to other countries in the region:
excess hospital capacity; weak primary health care (PHC); over-reliance on
inpatient treatment; outmoded equipment; inefficient purchasing practice, and
inefficient use of facilities, human and financial resources. Declining public
funding for health services and lack of investments into maintenance of heath
care infrastructure combined with inefficient management of investment
expenditure exacerbates the situation.
Historically inherited public health system lack effective policies and
capacity to comprehensively address root causes of non-communicable disease as
the system was oriented to infectious diseases and environmental health. A
National health Board established in 1998 as advisory unit for the Seimas may
well provide leadership for and become a catalyst for more comprehensive public
health reform.



The Government is undertaking a comprehensive health care reform.
General directions have been outlined in the 1991 Lithuania National Health
Concept and other legislative acts passed or under preparation. The primary
health care reform strategy and the implementation plan for 1996-2005 was
developed by the Ministry of Health (MOH). The Government has recognized PHC
as a priority and included primary health care investments in the national
public investment plan. Resource constraints, however, have hindered the
implementation of PHC reform, as hospital restructuring is necessary to free
up funds for PHC reform. Lithuania also recognizes the need to rationalize
hospital supply, and initiatives to develop national policy and guidelines are
being developed for this purpose. Given the resource constraints, the World
Bank strategy is to support the Government to roll out successful experiences
of pilot primary health care projects currently being implemented with support
from EU/PHARE.
Lithuania recently restructured the health care financing administration
by establishing a State Patient Fund with ten regional branches. The Bank's
main effort in this area will go to support the management of financial
resources at the primary health care level by territorial patient funds,
municipalities and providers. Although the concept of health insurance was
introduced at the end of 1997, implementation of health care financing systems
need to be developed further: regional resource allocation methodology, a
provider payment and incentives system, a regulatory framework, national
health service standards and guidelines, and institutional capacity of health
care providers.
2.      Project Development Objectives
The project development objective is to improve the efficiency, quality,
access and consumer satisfaction of the Lithuanian health care system. This
is expected to be achieved by supporting policy development, strengthening
capacity of National health institutions, improving management of public
health expenditures and implementing hospital restructuring and PHC reform
programs in pilot regions.
3.      Project  Description
The project description has been developed through a series of stakeholders
workshops and it will continue to be developed in the course of further
preparatory work. Project activities would be implemented through a set of
complementary components:
Support to Health Reform component of the proposed project would focus on: (i)
policy development activities like development of regional resource allocation
formula, allocation of investment funding, provider reimbursement and
contracting and other policy issues. (ii) Strengthening capacity of National
Health Institutions providing technical assistance and training in management,
cost-effective health care, developing restructuring plans for regional health
services; (iii) development of management information systems supporting
strategic planning and coordination in the on Ministry of Health, Central and
Territorial Patients Funds and health services provider levels.
Health service restructuring component will support regional PHC service
development and hospital restructuring in pilot areas:
1. Alytus Pilot Project supports regional PHC service development and
reorganisation of Alytus hospital, including establisment of a day-surgery
-2 -



unit, 2. Kaunas Pilot Project supports a health promotion and disease
prevention program, regional PHC development, a day-surgery unit as part of
hospital restructuring program, community mental health services, health
workforce retrenchment, and an ambulance services development program, 3.
Utena Pilot Project supports regional PHC services development, restructuring
of two hospitals and ambulance services, 4. Vilnius Pilot Project supports
regional PHC services development, community mental health program, conversion
of an acute care hospital into a long-term and nursing care facility.
It is expected that these pilot regions will provide a model for continuation
of national restructuring and PHC development programs. The objective is to
improve access and quality of the primary health care system through
investments in infrastructure, equipment and training and efficiency of the
overall health care system through introduction of the gatekeeper role of
general practitioner.
The Project Management component will strengthen the capacity of the MOH to
effectively manage Project activities, monitor implementation progress and
achievement of development objectives, and administer procurement and loan
expenditures. Technical assistance and training would be provided for PMU staff
and to institutions implementing the project.
4.      Project Financing
Total Project cost is estimated at about US$36.8 Million, financed
through the Government (US$8.7M), the Bank Loan (US$24.4M), and Donors (US$
3.8M). The project would finance refurbishment of health facilities, medical
equipment and supplies, computers and software development for management and
financial information systems, technical assistance, and national training and
fellowships. Funds would be disbursed over a four-year period.
5.      Project Implementation Arrangements
The Project will be implemented over four years and six months by the
Ministry of Health through the PMU. At present, the PMU is equipped and fully
staffed. Technical assistance is being provided to the PCU on project
management and procurement.    The Project Steering Committee provides policy
direction and acts as the main decision-making body for the project design.
The Deputy Minister of Health will have day-to-day oversight of project
preparation, implementation and progress towards achieving project development
objectives. During project preparation phase, component working groups
comprised of various stakeholders will prepare project activities. The main
implementing agencies of the project will be the State and Territorial
Sickness Funds; administrations of pilot regions and municipalities; and
Primary Health Care and Foreign and European Integration Affairs departments
of the Ministry of Health.
6.      Sustainability
The project would support the Government to leverage health sector reform
which is aimed to enhance efficiency of the system. Policy measures supported
in the project are expected to improve stability and certainty of health
services funding on a regional level. This should establish conditions for
developing plans to restructure health services on a sustainable level.
Implementation of need-based allocation formulas will put financial strain on
-3 -



some regions but the impact is expected to be mitigated through phased
implementation of reform. The Project does not envisage any new construction
or any increase in recurrent costs. Instead it would include refurbishment and
consolidation of facilities as well as retraining or redeployment of staff
which would result in efficiency gains and increased quality and quantity of
health care services. The project will not generate significant incremental
recurrent costs. Any incremental recurrent costs are expected to be offset by
savings from efficiency improvements.
7.      Lessons Learned From Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Human Development project implementation in Lithuania has been rated
satisfactory or higher. In the health sector, Lithuania is a new borrower.
From health projects in other transition economies, the following lessons have
been drawn: (i) health reform is a lengthy, politicized process; therefore,
Bank projects should build an ongoing provision of policy advice into project
supervision and link project investments to implementation of reforms; (ii) a
careful sequencing of reforms is necessary, and a shorter project linked to a
smaller, more realistic set of reforms is likely to be more effective; (iii)
participation of stakeholders (lawmakers, the medical community, and the
public) in the reform process is critical; (iv) involvement of the community
and the public in the reform process is critical; (v) simple investments with
simple implementation and procurement arrangements are more likely to succeed;
and (vi) it is important to provide implementation support by bolstering weak
managerial capacity in Ministries of Health. These lessons have been
considered in the project design and during project preparation. Consultation
and collaboration with stakeholders is anticipated during both project
preparation and implementation. The project will include activities to
effectively market health sector reforms to stakeholders.
8.      Poverty Category
The project does not directly target poverty alleviation. The population
of pilot areas and the whole country will benefit indirectly from: (i) better
provision of primary health care and well trained General Practitioners as
quality and access to basic health care services would improve for low income
families; and (ii) an efficient health financing and management system,
including a well functioning health expenditures monitoring system.
9.      Environmental aspects
The project has been rated "C" for environmental aspects. The project
will result in a positive environmental impact stemming from various
activities: (i) the provision of more modern technology will replace more
dated equipment to diminish environmental hazards, while being more energy
efficient; (ii) refurbishment of buildings will include energy efficiency
measures and more effective use of space, both of which will produce savings
in energy consumption.
10.     Program Objective Categories
The project supports two Program Objective Categories:    (i) Economic and
Financial Management (90%); and    (ii) Poverty Alleviation (10%).
- 4 -



11.     Contact Points:
Toomas Palu, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-9241
Fax No.: (202) 522-3665
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 27, 1999.
- 5 -



