Page  1
ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT
January 7,  2000
Mr. Basil G. Kavalsky
Country Director
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland
Europe and Central Asia Region
International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
Dear Mr. Kavalsky:
In pursuance of the Cofinancing, Technical Assistance and Consultant Trust Fund 
Framework Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden ("Sweden") and the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("IBRD") and the International Development 
Association ("Association") (IBRD and the Association being hereinafter referred to 
collectively as the "Bank"), dated as of March 23, 1998 (the "Agreement"), I am 
pleased to inform you of the intention of Sweden to make available a contribution (the 
"Contribution") of twenty million Swedish Kronor (SEK 20,000,000) as a grant, to be 
administered by the Bank for the Lithuania Health Project (Trust Fund No. 020307). the 
terms of the Agreement shall apply to the Contribution. The Bank shall administer the 
Contribution in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement, except as otherwise 
provided herein.
The Contribution is for a Recipient Executed Technical Assistance Grant and 
shall be used exclusively for the following purposes:
(a)  Implementation of health sector reform policy development, through:
(i)  
strengthening capacity for planning and implementing investment 
capital allocation systems while rationalizing use of facilities;
(ii)
increased efficiency of the health care provider contracting and 
reimbursement system;
(iii)
population based health care needs assessment;
(iv) 
development of standards for basic packages of health services and 
technology assessment; and
(v)  
support for the development of hospital restructuring plans in 
pilot areas.
(b) Strengthening capacity of national health institutions, through
(i)
support for the establishment of a Public Information Unit in the 
Ministry of Health (MOH);
(ii)
support for the establishment of an Information unit in the 
medical library to provide library resources guide on 
cost-effective medical care; and
(iii)
strengthening the capacity of the National Health Board and the 
MOH’s Health Law and Economics Center for policy development, 
public health monitoring, and program evaluation.
(c)   Information Management
(i)
Strengthening the Health Information Center (HIC); and
(ii) 
Development of health information systems for primary health care 
health facilities network and hospitals - patient and 
documentation management, and administration of physical, 
financial, and human resources; support for implementation 
supervision.
Page  2
(d)   Pilot Regional Health Services Restructuring
(i)
Management training for implementation of regional restructuring 
plans and emergency care.
(e)   Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
(i)
Advisory services and training in project management, financial 
management, and procurement.
The Contribution shall finance: 
(i)
technical assistance activities, including consultants fees, 
travel abroad and subsistence; and 
(ii)
training activities including participants travel abroad and 
subsistence and training material and translation and/or 
interpretation.
Sweden shall deposit the Contribution as a grant with the Bank, upon request 
from the Bank, considering the implementation pace and remaining funds in IBRD’s Cash 
Account "T" (Account No. IBRDSEK2) maintained with Sveriges Riksbank in accordance 
with the following schedule:
Upon confirmation by the Bank of this 
Administration Agreement
SEK 4,200,000
-
December 31, 2000
SEK 5,700,000
-
December 31, 2001
SEK 5,900,000
-
December 31, 2002
SEK 2,600,000
-
July 15, 2003
SEK 1,600,000
It is expected that the Contribution funds will be fully utilized: (i) in 
accordance with the provisions of this Administration Agreement by September 30, 2004; 
and (ii) during the period of effectiveness of Bank Loan No. 7001-LT (Health Project). 
The Bank shall only disburse the Bank funds for the purposes of this Administration 
Agreement after such date upon the approval of Sweden.
In official documentation and when information activities are arranged with 
regard to the project, it should be mentioned that Sida, Sweden is sponsoring the 
project.
If at any time, either party determines that the purposes of this Administration 
Agreement can no longer be effectively or appropriately carried out or if the 
Agreement is terminated, this Administration Agreement may be terminated at the 
initiative of either party by giving the other party not less than three (3) months’ 
prior written notice to such effect.  Upon termination of this Administration 
Agreement, and unless the parties hereto otherwise agree, any Grant Agreement entered 
into by the Bank, as administrator on behalf of Sweden, shall also terminate at such 
time, and any funds or other property of Sweden held hereunder by the Bank shall be 
credited to the trust fund account specified in Section 4.1(k) of the Agreement, and 
the Bank’s administration shall then be considered terminated.
The offices responsible for coordination of all matters related to this 
Administration Agreement are:
For Sweden
For the Bank
Sida
World Bank
S-105 25 STOCKHOLM
1818 H Street, N.W.
Sweden
Washington, D.C.
USA
I would like to propose that this letter shall, upon your confirmation in the 
manner indicated below, constitute an agreement between Sweden and the Bank.
Sincerely yours,
Page  3
By /s/ Staffan Herrstrom
Deputy General Director
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Country Director 
For Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland
Europe and Central Asia Region
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Date:
March 1, 2000
