Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7001 LT
Loan Agreement
(Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 28, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7001 LT 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 28, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Component Working Groups” mean the working groups established by the 
Page  2
Ministry of Health to facilitate project design and implementation, with 
representation of health sector specialists; 
(b)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(c)
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, or any successor thereto;
(d)
“Participating Regions” means the Borrower’s counties (aspkritis) of 
Alytus, Kaunas, Utena, and Vilnius;
(e)
“Pilot Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and each Participating Region pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Pilot Implementation Agreement; 
(f)
“PMU” means the project management unit established under the MOH 
pursuant to MOH Decree No. 93, dated March 5, 1997, or any successor thereto; 
(g)
“Project Management Report” and “PMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(i)
“Steering Committee” means the steering committee established by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Health, pursuant to Decree No. 253, dated May 5, 1997, chaired 
by the Minister of Health, and whose members include representatives of the MOH, PMU 
director, and local health care officials, or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-one 
million two hundred forty thousand dollars ($21,240,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.  
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General 
Conditions.  
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to two hundred twelve thousand four hundred dollars ($212,400).  The Borrower 
agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty-five hundredths of one percent (0.85%)  per annum from the date on which such 
charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the 
Page  3
General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  (ii) 
seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.  
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable  Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan,  the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with  the relevant provisions of the Article IV 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable to semiannually 
in arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.  
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance
 with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09.  (a)  The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and 
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate collar on said Variable 
Rate. 
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted  by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General  Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General  Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate  Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, requests 
for Conversion shall not be furnished to the Bank prior to February 1, 2000, unless 
otherwise agreed by the Bank. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A and C of the Project through the MOH, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, health, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project and, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan 
Agreement. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
carry out the Project in accordance  with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall maintain the PMU until Project completion, and shall 
ensure that the PMU functions at all times under appropriate terms of reference and 
with adequate staff and resources.
(d) 
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into 
a subsidiary agreement (the Pilot Implementation Agreement) with each Participating 
Region, on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including 
funding commitments, and implementation, supervision, monitoring, evaluation and 
reporting responsibilities related to Part B of the Project.
(e) 
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall exercise 
its rights under each Pilot Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any Pilot Implementation  Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  5
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of Section 4.01 hereof, in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 
31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  6
Ministry of Finance
J.Tumo-Vaizganto 8a/2
Vilnius 2600
Republic of Lithuania
Fax:
(3702) 227424
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Vilnius, Republic of Lithuania, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
By /s/ Vytautas Dudenas
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Cagegory
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   6,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
84% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
   2,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
84% of local
expenditures for
Page  7
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants' services
     350,000
100%
including audits
(4)
Ambulances
   1,900,000
100%
(5)
Medical Equipment
   7,400,000
100%
(6)
Fee
     212,400
Amount due pursuant
to 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Premia for Interest
  0
Amount due under
Rate Caps and
Section 2.09 (c)
Interest Rate Collars
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
  2,777,600
TOTAL
 21,240,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Medical Equipment” means the equipment and other items supplied 
under contracts for the carrying out of particular health services restructuring 
programs for Participating Regions under Part B of the Project, which shall have been 
duly certified by the authorities of the Borrower to have been exempted from liability 
for value added taxes payable by the purchaser (importer) thereof, in accordance with 
the provisions of Government Resolution No. 1202 of the Borrower, dated October 15, 
1996, “On the Approval of the List of Goods Free from Value Added Tax and Goods with 
the Production Cycle Exceeding Six Months,” or any similar regulation superceding the 
said Resolution No. 1202.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of payments made for ambulances under Category 4 until 
the Bank has notified the Borrower that the evidence submitted by the Borrower, as 
referred to in Schedule 5, paragraph 5 of this Agreement, regarding the completion of 
the Borrower’s proposal for model emergency care ambulance services and the adoption 
thereof by the regional health system administrations  of Kaunas and Utena, is 
acceptable to the Bank.  
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $700,000 each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than US$300,000 
equivalent each; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent each; and (d) services of individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than US$50,000 each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency, equity and access 
to the Borrower’s health care system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
Page  8
objectives:
Part A:
Support of Health Reform 
1.
Policy Development
Provision of goods and services for the development and implementation of 
appropriate health reform policies, including: (a) methodology for collection of 
contributions and allocation of financial resources; (b) standards and pricing for 
contracting services from health care providers; (c) definition of packages of basic 
health care service entitlements; (d) development of clinical protocols; (e) 
development and dissemination of components of national health services restructuring 
policy, including standards for health services, health services master plans, and a 
model for community based mental health services; and (f) revision of the national 
model for emergency care ambulance service and communications network. 
2.
Strengthening Capacity of National Health Institutions 
Provision of goods and services to the National Health Board, the State and 
Territorial Patient Funds and the National Health Information Center, to strengthen 
public health policy and institutional capacity of central health agencies and 
organizations in health care management.
3.
Information Management 
Provision of goods and services to selected hospitals, primary health care, and 
other health care facilities in the Participating Regions, and the National Health 
Information Center, to develop strategic health information systems to support 
business practices for stakeholders operating in the health sector.
Part B:
Health Service Restructuring
Provision of goods, works, and services to support the health services 
restructuring programs in the four Participating Regions of Alytus, Kaunas, Utena, and 
Vilnius, including: (i) development and expansion of primary health care services; 
(ii) optimizing and improving  hospital sector capacity; and (iii) restructuring and 
optimizing ambulance services network and communication systems.
Part C:
Project Management
Provision of goods and services to the PMU and to the Participating Regions to 
strengthen their capacity for project implementation, management and administration, 
including audit of records and accounts related to the Project; to monitor project 
outcomes; and to produce reliable and timely project management reports.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
   Installment Share
Payment Date
  (Expressed as a %)
Page  9
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2005 through May 15, 2016
4.17%
 
On November 15, 2016
4.09%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.  
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank and multiplying the amount of each such withdrawals by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified 
in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principle Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.  
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purpose solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.  
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i)  the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii)  if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component on the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each amount. 
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and in September 1997 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Page  10
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $700,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Library books, periodicals and reference materials or off-the-shelf library 
software considered to be proprietary goods may be procured with the Bank’s prior 
agreement through direct contracting with publishers.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review    
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B of this Schedule; and (b) the 
first four contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to Part 
C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to the first four contracts to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Schedule, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures 
the borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
Page  11
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small assignments that meet the requirements of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may with the Bank’s prior agreement be procured under contracts awarded to 
firms in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Contracts for training, fellowships, seminars, and study tours under the 
Project, up to an aggregate amount of $30,000, may be procured with the Bank’s prior 
agreement through single source selection with educational entities on the basis of 
price quotations for the proposed training program proposals. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  12
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
Steering Committee
The Steering Committee shall remain operational during the Project 
implementation period and shall be responsible for the policy guidance, donor 
coordination and oversight and promotion of health sector reforms and regional 
restructuring plans developed and implemented under the Project.
3.
Overall Project Management and Supervision
(a)
The MOF shall enter into an agreement with MOH defining the functions of 
the MOH with regard to Project implementation and supervision. 
(b)
The MOH shall be responsible for overall Project implementation and 
supervision within the framework of the agreement described in paragraph (a) hereof, 
and shall enter into the Pilot Implementation agreements with the Participating 
regions.
(c)
The PMU shall be responsible for overall project management and 
coordination, and for day-to-day administration of Project implementation, including: 
(i) coordination of the activities of various entities involved in Project 
implementation; (ii) monitoring of Project implementation and achievement of Project 
development objectives; (iii) maintenance of Project financial records and accounts, 
and arranging for the audit thereof; (iv) procurement; and (v) reporting.
4.
Financial Management of the State Health System
Page  13
The Borrower shall: (a) adopt a plan for the reform of the financial management 
of the state health system, whereby state health resources would be allocated to 
territorial patient funds based on a formula, acceptable to the Bank, taking into 
account the specific population needs of the respective regional administrations, and 
shall carry out the same in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b) by June 30, 2000, submit for the necessary approval by the agencies of the 
Borrower, proposed regulations requiring annual independent audits of the State 
Patient Fund and Territorial Patient Funds. 
5.
Emergency Care Ambulance Services
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
formulate a proposal for revision of the national model emergency care 
ambulance services, taking into account the relevant technical assistance provided 
under Part A.1 (f) of the Project; 
(b)
ensure that the adoption thereof by the regional health system 
administrations is made a condition to receipt by the Participating Regions of the 
Borrower’s assistance in the restructuring and optimizing of the ambulance services 
network; and 
(c)
furnish the Bank with evidence of adoption of the revised model emergency 
care ambulance services by the Participating Regions.
6.
Use of Project Facilities by Private Providers of Health Care Services
Without limitation on Section 9.05 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the operations and facilities 
in which any improvements have been financed under the Project shall continue to 
operate in the public health system, and the Borrower shall not include such 
operations and facilities into a plan for privatization.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$700,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $3,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
Page  14
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.  
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
Page  15
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
