Page  1
February 14, 2000
His Excellency
Vytautas Dudenas
Minister of Finance
J. Tumo-Vaizganto 8a/2
Vilnius, 2600, Lithuania
Re:
Health Project - Swedish Grant 
Trust Fund No. 020307
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Sweden, through the Swedish International Development Cooperation 
Agency (SIDA), to make a grant in an amount not exceeding twenty million Swedish 
Kronor (SEK 20.0 million) (the Grant) to the Republic of Lithuania (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Country Director for Estonia, Latvia,  Lithuania and Poland
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
By /s/ Vytautas Dudenas
Minister of Finance
Date:
February 28, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the 
Health Reform Project (the Project), which has as its main objectives: (i) the 
reorientation of medical services and infrastructure towards a general practice-based 
primary health care system; (ii) the optimization and improvement in quality of 
hospital services; and (iii) the introduction of appropriate financial incentives and 
efficient management into the health financing system.
1.2
The activities (the Activities) to be financed from the Grant consist of 
consultants’ services and training for the purpose of:
(a)  Implementation of health sector reform policy development, through:
(i)  
strengthening capacity for planning and implementing investment 
Page  2
capital allocation systems while rationalizing use of facilities;
(ii)
increased efficiency of the health care provider contracting and 
reimbursement system;
(iii)
population based health care needs assessment;
(iv) 
development of standards for basic packages of health services and 
technology assessment; and
(v)  
support for the development of hospital restructuring plans in 
pilot areas.
(b)  Strengthening capacity of national health institutions, through:
(i)  
support for the establishment of a public information unit in the 
Ministry of Health (MOH);
(ii)
support for the establishment of an information unit in the 
medical library to provide library resources guide on 
cost-effective medical care; and
(iii)
strengthening the capacity of the National Health Board and the 
MOH’s Health Law and Economics Center for policy development, 
public health monitoring, and program evaluation.
(c)   Information Management
(i)
Strengthening the Health Information Center (HIC); and
(ii) 
Development of health information systems for primary health care 
health facilities network and hospitals - patient and 
documentation management, and administration of physical, 
financial, and human resources; support for implementation 
supervision.
(d)  Pilot Regional Health Services Restructuring
(i)
Management training for implementation of regional restructuring 
plans and emergency care.
(e)  Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
(i)
Advisory services and training in project management, financial 
management, and procurement.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) utilize the Grant in parallel with the utilization of 
the proceeds of the Bank Loan to the Recipient (Loan No. 7001-LT) for the Project; (b) 
carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (c) promptly provide the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (d) furnish 
all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as 
the Bank and SIDA shall reasonably request; (e) from time to time exchange views with 
representatives of the Bank and SIDA on the progress and results of the Activities; 
and (f) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank and SIDA to visit the 
territory of Republic of Lithuania for purposes related to the Grant. Without 
limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank or SIDA shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Bank and SIDA promptly upon completion of the 
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and SIDA, on the 
results and impact of the Activities.
2.2
Analysis and reporting shall be prepared and forwarded to SIDA semi-annually. In 
official documentation and when information activities are arranged with regard to the 
Project, it should be mentioned that SIDA is sponsoring the Project.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services and training required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Page  3
Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
 Amount of the
   % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
   (in SEK)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
   16,500,000 100%
(2)
Other services:
    3,500,000 100%
(training seminars,
symposiumsm, fellow-
ships, conference
participation)
TOTAL
   20,000,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or 
in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such 
territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such 
payment, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) 
after September 30, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written 
notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is 
received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any 
amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; 
and (b) if, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf 
of the Recipient by the Vice Minister for Health Services of MOH, or such other person 
as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence 
in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request. Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal 
application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient 
in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw 
such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying 
out of the Activities. The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from 
the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants or 
for training costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant. The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
Page  4
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II 
to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to 
the Project.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
1.
To the extent compatible with the provisions of paragraph 2 below, Consultants’ 
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Page  5
2.
In implementation of the Framework Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and 
the Bank, dated March 28, 1998, pursuant to which the Bank agreed to administer grant 
funds provided by Sweden (including the Grant provided under this Letter Agreement), 
the Recipient shall ensure, unless Sweden and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
contracts for consultants’ services awarded to Swedish nationals shall account for not 
less than 75% of the total Grant amount allocated for such services.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Training
Training shall be procured on the basis of quotes obtained directly from 
training providers in accordance with procedures and budgets agreed upon with the 
Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  6
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $240,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
Page  7
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
