 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14718

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/16/2015

              Country: Nepal
            Project ID: P110762                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Nepal: Peace                 Project Costs (US$M):                      50.0                  32.78
                        Support Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      50.0                  32.78
      Sector Board:       Social Protection           Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  05/06/2008
                                                               Closing Date:            06/30/2011           06/30/2014
          Sector(s):      Other social services (94%); Central government administration (4%); General public
                          administration sector (2%)
         Theme(s):        Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (67%); Social safety nets (33%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Malathi S.                Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2
Jayawickrama

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project's objectives, as stated in the Financing Agreement (dated August 26, 2008), were to contribute to the
    consolidation of the peace process in Nepal by supporting: (i) Government to meet commitments to people
    affected by the conflict, including families of the deceased, orphans, widows and disabled people, and Maoists in
    cantonments; (ii) ensuring transparency in implementation of benefits under the Project for the conflict-affected
    groups including the Maoists in cantonments; and (iii) strengthening of key institutions which are tasked with
    policy and implementation functions in peace building, reintegration and rehabilitation. This is the same as in the
    Emergency Project Paper (EPP, p. 5).

    The revised objectives, as stated in the Amendment to the Financing Agreement (dated May 21, 2010), were to
    contribute to the peace process by providing interim cash transfers and services to eligible conflict affected
    groups and by increasing transparency and accountability in the delivery of these benefits.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 05/17/2010

c. Components:

    The project originally comprised three major components:
    Component 1: Transitional safety net payments to Maoists in cantonments during the transition period (appraisal:
    US$ 18.55m; actual: US$ 6.24m). Under this component, 19,602 Maoists placed in twenty-eight cantonments
    were to receive regular cash allowances, and the project was to reimburse the Government of Nepal (GON) for
    those payments made between July 2007 and mid January 2009. The eligible Maoists were registered and
verified by a two stage process involving the two parties to the conflict and the United Nations (UN). This
component was intended to directly support the process of demobilizing the Maoist forces in fulfilment of the 23
Point Agreement (23PA).
Component 2: Benefits to families of those killed as a result of the conflict and reintegration support to other
conflict-affected populations (appraisal: US$ 28.25m; actual: US$ 22.31m). This component had two
sub-components.

Sub-component (i) to finance benefit payments to families of people killed as a result of the conflict. This
comprised compensation payments to 14,000-plus families in the amount of NPR 100,000 per person killed as
per a GON decision taken in March 2008. This would be paid as a lump sum, though payment would be spread
over several months to achieve national coverage.
Sub-component (ii) to provide support for reintegration assistance to other conflict-affected groups: people
disabled in the conflict; IDPs; families of persons who had disappeared; minors involved in the conflict; orphaned
children; and widows. This could take a variety of forms (e.g. training, legal and counselling services,
rehabilitation services for disabled people, and piloting of interventions), and would be elaborated by the GON
with technical assistance (TA) provided under the Component 3 and in close consultation with other development
partners through the Nepal Peace Trust Fund (NPTF).
Component 3: Capacity building of key institutional structures in support of the peace process and project
management support (appraisal: US$ 3.20m; actual: US$ 3.04m). This component had three sub-components:
Sub-component (i). Capacity building and technical assistance for the Ministry of Peace and Reconstruction
(MOPR) to perform its core functions more effectively. This was to include as an immediate priority its oversight
role on payments to families of deceased and Maoists in cantonments (i.e. strengthening the management
information system (MIS), developing internal procedures, communications campaigns for beneficiaries of project
financed payments, and monitoring, reporting (including beneficiary surveys), and beneficiary satisfaction
surveys.
Sub-component (ii). Support for core project implementation tasks of the Project Management Team (PMT) such
as procurement and financial management (FM), including evaluation of project interventions through surveys
and other assessment tools;
Sub-component (iii). Training, workshops and technical assistance for other actors in the peace process as
needed, including the Peace Commission once formed, the Peace and Conflict Management Committee if
required, Local Peace Committees, and other groups such as parliamentarians and possibly other bodies related
to the peace process.

First Restructuring: In May 2009, less than a year after the project’s approval, a Maoist leader claimed that
money paid by the GON to Maoist ex-combatants would be used for purposes inconsistent with the peace
process, and that the reported number of soldiers in the camps had been inflated. Although payments to Maoists
had been made by the Government of Nepal (GON), no withdrawals had yet been made against project funds for
these expenses. The Bank's money was not implicated. The Bank's senior management took actions to avert any
risk of Bank funds being used (or perceived as being used) in a manner inconsistent with the financing
agreement. It was decided to disallow expenditures under Component 1, an action that necessitated a Level 1
restructuring. The restructuring also aligned the original PDO with the revised role of MOPR, which had originally
been expected to assist with conflict management, truth finding and reconciliation in addition to delivering GON
commitments to conflict-affected groups. The restructuring was expected to improve the relevance of the project
given the changed circumstances. The original key and intermediate project indicators were replaced by
streamlined and more precise indicators to reflect the revised PDO. The closing date extension was due to the
increased scope of rehabilitation services that needed time to be put in place.

Revised Components (following the first restructuring):

At the Level 1 restructuring, the original Component 1 was dropped for the reasons already described. The
overall budget for the project was unchanged, however, as were the basic activities of the project for all
beneficiary groups except for those originally envisaged under Component 1. The original Component 1 was
replaced by the original Sub-component 2.2, and benefited from an increased budget, a change that shifted the
focus of the project towards longer-term peace building and rehabilitation of CAPs. The original Sub-component
2.1 became Component 2.
The revised components were as follows:
Component 1: Rehabilitation support to conflict-affected families and individuals (US$14.5 million). This
component provided (i) assistance in the design of service packages (to include needs identification,
psycho-social counselling, health and nutrition counselling, occupational consultations, skill training, formal
educational scholarships, microfinance and job placement); and (ii) support for a phased roll out in selected
   districts of skills development and employability services, including occupational consultations, education and
   skill training and job placement (an initiative called Employment and Self-Employment Services, or ESES).
   Component 2: Cash benefits to families and widows of those killed as a result of the conflict (US$31.8 million).
   This component would finance: (i) payment of NPR 100,000 each to 18,000 families of those killed in the conflict
   (identified and confirmed by the government); and (ii) payment to 9,000 eligible widows of an additional NPR
   25,000.
   Component 3: Capacity building of key institutional structures in support of the peace process and project
   management support (US$3.2 million). This component and budget were left unchanged from the original project
   design. It comprised (i) capacity building and technical assistance for MOPR to perform its core functions more
   effectively; (ii) support for core project implementation tasks of the PMT, which included implementation of the
   Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP) and revamped monitoring and evaluation arrangements; and
   (iii) training, workshops and technical assistance for other actors in the peace process as needed, including
   LPCs, the Peace Committee, the Truth and Reconciliation Committee, and others once formed.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Costs The original project costs were estimated at US$ 50.0 million. Final costs were US$ 32.78 million,
   or 66% of appraisal.

   Financing: The US$ 50.0 million grant was to be financed by IDA. No Borrower contribution was anticipated or
   made.

   Final amounts disbursed: The final amounts approved for the three components in January 2014 were US$
   6.56m; US$ 23.24m; and US$ 3.62m, respectively. The actual amounts disbursed under the respective
   components were: US$ 6.24m; US$ 22.31m; and US$ 3.04m (ICR, Annex 1), totaling US$ 31.59m. This is
   different from the total amount disbursed by 06/21/2014 listed in the ICR Data Sheet (US$ 34.67m), and from the
   total amount disbursed listed in the ICR's Annex 1 (US$ 32.78m).

   Dates: The project was restructured on three occasions:
      5/17/2010, to revise the PDO, change the scope and structure of the first two components, and reallocate
         funds from Component 1 to 2 in line with the restructuring; to revise the results framework to ensure
         consistency with the revised PDO and revised components; and to extend the closing date for one year, to
         June 30, 2012.
   Disbursements before and after the revision of the PDO: The project had disbursed US$ 19.59m of the US$
   34.67m, or 56.5%, prior to the revision of the PDO (ICR Data Sheet, p. xii). The balance of US$ 15.08m, or
   43.5%, was disbursed after the Level 1 restructuring. The cancelled amount was US$ 12.3m. (These amounts
   differ from the amounts listed in the Data Sheet.)

        5/28/2012, to extend the closing date by two years to June 30, 2014.

   Second Restructuring: On 5/28/2012, a second restructuring extended the closing date due to the following: The
   Employment and Self Employment (ESES) program had been well received in the 12 districts covered in the pilot
   phase, and it was noted that there was a strong demand from CAPs and other stakeholders, including local
   peace committees, for employment services and capacity building that went beyond one-time cash relief. MOPR
   had gained insight and experience in implementing the program, and it was proposed that this would enable the
   program to be expanded to the remaining 61 conflict-affected districts. MOPR proposed to implement the
   expansion in two phases: Phase I, covering 42 districts, and Phase II, to cover 19 more districts.
      1/31/2014, to cancel remaining funds.

   Third Restructuring. The Phase II ESES mentioned above started too late. The call for proposals received an
   unexpectedly large number and there was insufficient time for training, etc., to be completed before project
   closure. Therefore, remaining project funds were cancelled in this third restructuring on 1/31/2014.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of Original Objectives. Substantial. The project's objectives remain relevant today, as they were at
   approval. The objectives are consistent with the World Bank's post-conflict support strategy for Nepal (Interim
   Strategy Note, 2007). They are also consistent with the latest Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), 2014-18,
   which emphasizes the importance of sustaining the peace process. Following months of difficult negotiations
   between Maoists and government groups, a fragile peace agreement had been reached in November 2006. The
   Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) aimed to develop a new constitution based on principles of equity of
   gender, caste, ethnicity, and religion. Part of the peace settlement (later called the 23 Point Agreement or 23PA)
   was a commitment by GON to pay reparations to conflict-affected persons (CAPs) and their families. These
   actions followed international best practice, and were considered essential to sustain the level of trust and
   confidence build during the peace process. The project's approach, which aims to fulfill the conditions of the
   23PA in a fair and transparent manner, aimed to support the credibility of the peace process in Nepal, as well as
   the country's longer-term development outlook. Apart from concerns of Bank management that the monthly
   payments made to Maoist ex-combatants under Component 1 might have been used in a manner inconsistent
   with the project objective of consolidation of the peace process, there was an additional motivation for
   restructuring. This was the need to realign the PDO with the role that had emerged for the Ministry of Peace and
   Reconstruction (MOPR) regarding implementation of the CPA and the 23PA.

   Relevance of Revised Objectives. Substantial. The country conditions remained relevant, and the relevance of
   this revised PDO remained high following the Level I restructuring until project closure. The revised PDO more
   accurately reflects the scope of activities in the project and the expectations that can be met by MOPR in its
   capacity and role within the peace process (see Section 9a on Government Performance for further on the new
   role of MOPR).

b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of Design under the Original Objectives. Substantial. There were clear links between the PDO, the
   activities the project set out to support, the expected outcomes and the project indicators (see EPP, p. 5 and
   Annex 2). Essentially, the project aimed to contribute to the peace process (the PDO) by meeting commitments
   to people affected by the conflict, ensuring transparency in implementing these benefits, and strengthening the
   institutions tasked with the functions involved with peace building. The Results Framework lays out the program
   logic in these three areas. The use of an emergency operation was appropriate (see section 8a Quality at Entry).

   Relevance of Design under the Revised Objectives. Substantial. The revised design more accurately
   represented the scope of activities under the project. New activities were introduced that more accurately
   represented the revised PDO. The revised design, including the results framework, reflected the revised project
   orientation toward greater rehabilitation support (for example, by introducing the ESES initiative). The project also
   included publication of summary information on payments to families on the MOPR website, and local disclosure
   boards were established to increase transparency.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The Project had three original objectives and two revised objectives. The original objectives were: (i) Support the
   Government to meet commitments to people affected by the conflict, including families of the deceased, orphans,
   widows and disabled people, and Maoists in cantonments; (ii) ensure transparency in implementation of benefits
   under the Project for the conflict-affected groups including the Maoists in cantonments; and (iii) strengthen key
   institutions which are tasked with policy and implementation functions in peace building, reintegration and
   rehabilitation.

   The revised objectives were: (i) provide interim cash transfers and services to eligible conflict affected groups;
   and (ii) increase transparency in the delivery of these benefits; and (iii) and increase accountability in the delivery
   of these benefits.

   The first original and revised objectives were essentially the same. The main beneficiaries of the project following
   the first restructuring were essentially the same, except for the Maoists in cantonments, as noted in Section 2 (d)
   above.

   Objective (original/revised): Government to meet commitments to people affected by the conflict, including
   families of the deceased, orphans, widows and disabled people, and Maoists in cantonments/Provide interim
   cash transfers and services to eligible conflict affected groups.
   RATING: Substantial

   Outputs: 14,770 of the 14,800 eligible families of those deceased due to the conflict received cash payments
   (99% coverage against the target of 95%). The revised component covered: (i) a NPR 100,000 payment to
14,800 families of conflict victims; (ii) a further NPR 200,000 to 2,900 families; and (iii) an additional NPR 25,000
payment to 4,700 widows of those killed in the conflict (and not covered by army or police compensation
arrangements). The first Third Party Monitoring survey found high levels of satisfaction with and impact from the
transfers. The component exceeded the targets set at the June 2012 restructuring.

The delivery of skills and employability rehabilitation services to beneficiaries who sought them was met in the 61
districts where ESES was offered (pilot phase and phase 1). This activity/component was designed to be
implemented in three phases: a pilot phase in 12 districts, followed by two additional phases to cover the
remaining 61 conflict-affected districts. During the pilot phase, employment-related training was offered in 19
different construction-related trades. During the pilot phase, 2,964 beneficiaries completed the ESES training
programs and 1,789 (60%) found employment.

Building on lessons learned from the pilot phase, Phase I of ESES was rolled out in 42 districts. Training was
delivered to 11,740 beneficiaries (of whom 11,693 enrolled). Female participation in the ESES program was
encouraged in both phases. In the pilot phase, 40% (1,200) were females, with female participation reaching 53%
(6,147) in Phase I. Accordingly, the PDO indicator of 30% female participation was substantially exceeded.
Female enrollment was encouraged by the provision of training in female-oriented trades such as tailoring and
hand embroidery. Phase I offered training programs for 27 different trades; 13 new trades were introduced, while
5 trades were dropped from the pilot phase. Off-season vegetable farming had the largest number of participants
(19%; 2,159), followed by building electrician (14%; 1,596) and tailoring (11%; 1,238). Of the total 295 contracts
awarded, the project received Employment Completion Reports (ECR) for 276 contracts; according to these
reports, 55.3% of trainees in Phase I found employment 6 months or less after completing the training.
Third-party verification confirmed 206 of these ECRs, and found an employment rate of 56.3%. Of the 11,693
beneficiaries who enrolled in training services in Phase I of the program, 11,540 completed the training.

Phase II of ESES was intended to cover the remaining 19 districts. The MOPR received 948 proposals from
interested training providers, an unexpectedly large number that overwhelmed the capacity of the bid evaluation
team. Following notification that further extensions would not be granted, evaluation of proposals was cancelled
and bidders were advised accordingly. Since the closure of the project, the PMT has submitted a proposal to the
Nepal Peace Trust Fund (NPTF) to support the implementation of Phase II. The ESES component also
supported the design of a psychological counselling program to CAPs. This program assisted the reintegration of
CAPs by helping them to deal with the traumas resulting from the conflict.

Outcomes: Overall, the Government met its commitment to people affected by the conflict by providing cash
transfers and services. The target beneficiary satisfaction rate for cash payments and rehabilitation services of
90% was met for cash benefits (with surveys showing 91% satisfaction), and also fully achieved for rehabilitation
services (79% satisfaction against a target of 80% following the 2012 restructuring). The target female
participation rate of 30% was substantially exceeded. Female participation in the ESES program was encouraged
in both phases. In the pilot phase, 40% (1,200) were females, with female participation reaching 53% (6,147) in
Phase I.


Objective (original/revised): Ensure transparency in implementation of benefits under the Project for the
conflict-affected groups including the Maoists in cantonments/Increase transparency and accountability in the
delivery of benefits.
RATING: Modest

The transparency objective applies to the original project, but the restructured project added an additional
objective of accountability. These are sufficiently related to be rated as a single objective.

Outputs: At the end of the project, the MOPR website was fully operational. Records and information of the
deceased and widows were entered on the management information system (MIS) and made available online on
the Ministry’s project website. District disclosure boards were functional and updated quarterly. Under
Component 3, the project provided resources for project management, institutional capacity development and
training. Guidelines were developed for payment and ESES services, through a consultative process involving
the NPTF and stakeholders. Training, orientation, and information sessions outlining operating procedures, roles
and responsibilities related to the project were conducted for MOPR personnel, Local Peace Committee (LPC)
and District Administrative Office (DAO) staff, training service providers, and beneficiaries. These training
sessions were reinforced through media and communication campaigns.The M&E plan was also completed.
Beneficiary assessments and social audits were financed and conducted on an annual basis.

Outcomes: There is now an appropriate grievance mechanism that is operational. Two officers are designated as
grievance focal points, and a grievance handling MIS system with a toll-free hotline is functioning for handling
    grievances. The benefits described above can be attributed to the project, as they are a result of specific
    project-related inputs and outputs.


    Objective (original): Strengthen key institutions which are tasked with policy and implementation functions in
    peace building, reintegration and rehabilitation.
    RATING: Substantial. This third objective was dropped at restructuring .

    Outputs: The Project provided resources for project management, institutional capacity development, and
    training. Guidelines were developed for payment and ESES services, through a consultative process involving
    the NPTF and stakeholders. Training, orientation, and information sessions outlining operating procedures, roles,
    and responsibilities related to the project were conducted for MOPR personnel, LPC and DAO staff, training
    service providers, and beneficiaries. These training sessions were reinforced through media and communication
    campaigns. A grievance mechanism was introduced and handled a large number of grievances about the cash
    payment and ESES processes. This substantially increased the social accountability of the project, as did the use
    of disclosure boards.

    Outcomes: A key outcome was the development of the MIS, which contained data on all CAPs, the project
    accounting system, program budget modules, and all elements of the ESES program. At the time of project
    closure, the MIS team was developing additional modules to support the implementation of other MOPR
    programs as well. In order to ensure the system was usable at all levels, MIS training was provided to DAO,
    DDC, and LPC officials. While the project-supported activities are now completed, the MIS will have ongoing
    relevance for the MOPR as it continues with peace-related interventions in ESES, psychosocial counseling, and
    the payment of remaining obligations to beneficiaries.

5. Efficiency:

    Neither the Emergency Project Paper (EPP) nor the ICR conducts a full economic or financial analysis of the
    program. The intention of the Emergency Recovery Loan was to support the peace process and enhance the
    stability of a very tenuous peace settlement. The overall economic return of the project was therefore impossible
    to quantify (ICR, p. 23). While the project did have outputs with a direct economic benefit, it was not possible
    even at the ICR stage to measure the direct welfare impact of these outputs, since no impact evaluations were
    conducted and data from the beneficiary assessment were inadequate for such an exercise (ICR, p. 23).

    The ICR does examine several outputs and concludes that the project’s components had a substantial economic
    benefit.

    In terms of economic benefits, the benefits of the targeted cash transfers are viewed as extremely high, given
    that they were provided to households that had lost family members or were caring for people with disabilities;
    the ESES delivered services to very needy individuals, and employment rates were reasonable (60%) in
    comparison to other training programs in the region; and it is important to factor in the social and community-wide
    impact of greater economic and social agency promoted by the project, a factor to which it is not possible to
    assign a precise value.

    The project is also seen as being relatively cost efficient according to the ICR. The ICR points to analyses of cost
    data for Phase 1 of the ESES program. These show an average program cost of NPR 20,825, or NPR 231 per
    trainee per day. This is relatively low in relation to comparator programs in other countries. Factors that possibly
    contributed to efficiency include: (i) the utilization of non-governmental organizations and civil society
    organizations as training service providers; (ii) the adoption of competitive, performance-based contracting; (iii)
    the development and delivery of orientation workshops to potential bidders; (iv) clarity and transparency of the bid
    evaluation process; and (v) multilevel performance monitoring of training program delivery. However, no specific
    information is provided on comparator programs.

    However, there were factors that detracted from implementation efficiency, including weak PMT capacity, delays
    in hiring staff and submission of financial management reports, and slow implementation of cash transfers in the
    project's early years. On balance, efficiency is rated Modest taking into account these factors.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                    Point Value                 Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   The Project disbursed 56.5% under the original PDO and 43.5% under the revised PDO.

   The ICRR rates the Project as follows:

   Relevance of Original Objectives: Substantial
   Relevance of Original Design: Substantial
   Achievement of the objective to meet commitments to affected groups: Substantial
   Achievement of Objective to increase transparency: Modest
   Achievement of objective to in strengthen institutions: Substantial
   Efficiency: Modest
   Therefore Outcome rating under the original objectives: MS

   Relevance of Revised Objectives: Substantial
   Relevance of Design under Revised Objectives: Substantial
   Achievement of the objective to provide interim cash transfers and services: Substantial
   Achievement of Objective to increase transparency and Accountability: Substantial
   Efficiency: Modest
   Therefore Outcome rating under the Revised Objectives: MS

   Overall, the project contributed to advancing the peace process in Nepal. It is difficult to judge the counterfactual
   -- i.e. what would have happened in the absence of a Bank project. Although the Bank saw a credible risk (at the
   time of appraisal) that the peace process could unravel, the fact that the Bank proceeded with the project
   contributed to the credibility of the peace process itself. Given the project’s strategic relevance and delivery of the
   bulk of anticipated outputs, the Bank’s decision to support cash payments and employment services in
   conflict-affected areas made a real difference to the lives of beneficiaries and thereby helped to promote social
   inclusion and restore economic activity and confidence in the GON. This is evidenced in the findings of the
   beneficiary assessments in the ICR. The project also contributed to capacity building within the MOPR and at the
   local institution level, which has arguably supported sustained peace in Nepal.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The PDO was “to contribute to the peace process by providing interim cash transfers and services to eligible
   conflict affected groups and by increasing transparency and accountability in the delivery of these benefits.” The
   cash transfers and services have been delivered (with the exception of Phase II of ESES), and have served their
   purpose of contributing to the peace process (ICR, p. 15).

   There are, however, risks that political and economic changes could jeopardize the development outcomes
   achieved. National level political risks cannot be entirely assessed. Whether those who gained employment
   following the training remain employed is a function of what happens in the overall economy, and in those
   sectors.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Project was prepared under the Bank's OP/BP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) due to
   its nature and the need for a rapid and flexible response. The streamlined procedures under this policy helped
   to ensure timely processing to directly support the immediate needs of government. The Bank considered
   other options such as general budget support, but the importance of robust fiduciary standards in the use of
   funds suggested that an emergency operation was a more appropriate instrument. The Bank's policy under
   OP/BP 8.00 also offered the flexibility to adapt elements of the project to an evolving institutional and policy
   situation. The operation was also consistent with the 2007 Nepal Interim Strategy Note. Given the range of
   UN and bilateral players involved in supporting the peace process, the project's design took into account
   existing and planned support to GON from other development partners, and sought a harmonized approach.

   The Bank fielded a team of local experts, international experts and the Bank's extensive international
   experience with demobilization and reparation, while remaining sensitive to local circumstances and the need
   to honor the 23PA (ICR, p. 15). Lessons incorporated included application of fiduciary arrangements,
   specifically FM, reliance on a dedicated budget line item for fund transfers, a robust beneficiary identification
   process, and a planned payment process that involved both government and Maoist input and oversight.

   Considering the circumstances, the EPP was comprehensive in scope, and deliberately incorporated
   flexibility in its implementation arrangements. The project's M&E design included a robust system with the UN
   and GoN conducting joint verification to identify and validate ex-combatant beneficiaries. Third party surveys
   and social audits were also incorporated into the design to track payments and results indicators.

   However, the ICR identifies several moderate shortcomings in design. These include the realism of some of
   the outcome indicators and their links to the PDO. (These were corrected at the restructuring.) The Bank also
   did not explicitly identify capacity constraints at MOPR as a risk to the PDO, and expected disbursements
   based on rapid implementation of new procedures by a relatively new ministry (ICR, p. 15). These capacity
   constraints slowed disbursements.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team was proactive and candid in flagging low disbursements and downgrading both progress
   towards the PDO and implementation progress to MU one year into implementation. The Bank team,
   including senior management, took quick actions to restructure the project (Level I) and prevent any damage
   to the Bank's reputation when a potential risk identified in the EPP materialized early in the project. During
   this time, the project team made a great effort to ensure coordination with donors and other stakeholders by
   keeping them informed (Implementation Status Report #3, December 2009). As stated in the ICR, this
   restructuring was opportune, since it improved the clarity of the project's design and strengthened the results
   framework, particularly by introducing specific and measurable PDO outcome indicators directly related to the
   objectives.

   The team conducted a thorough Mid-Term Review (MTR) in June 2011, and identified a specific set of actions
   and milestones to be achieved. Following the MTR, MOPR made notable improvements, and the project was
   upgraded from the earlier unsatisfactory status (Implementation Status Reports #6 of May 2011 and #7 of
   April 2012). The task team engaged actively in between missions, and played a key role in assisting the
   government. This demonstrated the importance of a field-based TTL and teams in fragile and post-conflict
   environments such as that prevailing in Nepal.

   Following restructuring, the Bank team continued to assist in strengthening capacity at MOPR. The ESES
   component, however, fell short of planned targets, necessitating the cancellation of funds. The Bank could
   have possibly accelerated procurement of the final phase of the ESES. The team did well, working together
   with the Project Management Team, in incorporating lessons from the ESES. The TTL maintained
   communications with the Nepal Peace Trust Fund and shared experiences on a regular basis (ICR, p. 16).



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
   Implementation was slow during the first year, and disbursements did not commence for over a year. This
   was mainly due to slow budget release, limited capacity in MOPR, low capacity at the regional level, and
   changing leadership within the PMT (ISR #6). The Government could probably have done more to ensure that
   the MOPR was adequately staffed and procedures put in place to accelerate disbursements (ICR, p. 16).
   Following the restructuring and the MTR, MOPR made significant progress. Despite this progress, overall
   disbursements remained low and possibly affected the final phase of ESES, necessitating the cancellation of
   project funds.

   At project approval, the MOPR had been in existence a little over one year, and had been mandated to take
   over the functions of the earlier Peace Secretariat. The MOPR was to provide a strengthened internal
   structure for enhancing coordination of peace efforts, and assist national recovery and development through
   conflict management, truth finding and reconciliation, and social reconstruction. Under the 23PA, several
   high-level commissions were to be formed and tasked with guiding different aspects of the peace project,
   including the High Level Peace Commission, a Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and others. However,
   these commissions have not been established, and in the absence of political commitments, the MOPR has
   assumed the role of a more traditional ministry responsible for meeting certain GON obligations to
   conflict-affected groups.


  Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Performance of the MOPR was mixed. Although MOPR formed a PMT headed by the Project Coordinator,
   and included representatives from several divisions (Conflict Analysis and Policy Formulation, Relief and
   Rehabilitation, Planning and Monitoring, etc.), implementation of the cash transfers was relatively slow during
   the first few years of the project. This was due to the project management arrangements (weak PMT) and the
   capacity of the new ministry. In late 2011, implementation progress was downgraded due to very low progress
   in delivering the cash transfers in FY2010-11, and the delay in hiring staff. These factors were resolved, but
   impacted overall implementation. FM reports were submitted with significant delays over this period; however,
   this improved over time.

   Capacity at the PMT improved tremendously after a new Project Coordinator was appointed in November
   2011. Project status, including FM, was upgraded in April 2012. The contracting for Phase II of the ESES was
   delayed. The PMT could have anticipated this and started the contracting process earlier. The ICR states
   that the PMT assumed the project would be extended for another year, although there is no evidence of this
   commitment (ICR, p. 17).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The EPP sets out the broad framework for results monitoring. In the original design, M&E was central to verifying
   cash payments to beneficiaries. As stated in the ICR (and in the project's design), the UN and GoN were to carry
   out joint verification to identify and validate ex-combatant beneficiaries. An independent opinion survey was
   planned to track the payments. These factors contributed to the sound M&E design at entry.

   There were some issues with the Project's indicators. Key indicators were not reflected under PDO indicators in
   Annex 2, Project Results Framework and Monitoring, of the original Project Paper; and there were some original
   indicators with doubtful relevance to the project. These included participation of parties to the peace process in
   agreed upon structures and mechanisms addressing the peace at central and district levels; number of specific
   agreements in the CPA and 23PA adhered to; reduction in cease fire violations; and Peace Commission
   constituted and operational and agreed multi-party mechanism in place pending Peace Commission formation.

b. M&E Implementation:
   The first restructuring significantly improved the results framework, including the indicators. The original key and
   intermediate project indicators were replaced by streamlined and more precise indicators to reflect the new PDO.
   The enhancements included development of an MIS and third-party monitoring in the form of beneficiary
   assessments and social audits. These improvements made M&E easier and more efficient in terms of monitoring
   project performance.

   The M&E process was well used to monitor project progress. The ICR states that spot checks led to a substantial
   reduction in the number of identified beneficiaries compared with original estimates. Beneficiaries were very
   satisfied with the cash payment process, as indicated in the surveys. The survey process also likely influenced
   performance of the local authorities delivering the payments (ICR, p. 9).

c. M&E Utilization:

   The project made good use of the data collected for evaluating and refining the outputs. The ESES program's
   reports on training and job placement of beneficiaries during the pilot phase helped to refine the training models
   (although the final impact evaluation was cancelled due to the cancellation of this component). As observed in
   the ICR, the MOPR will likely use the MIS system beyond this project.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   No safeguard policies were triggered by the project. There were no safeguard issues during implementation.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The ICR rates overall FM performance as satisfactory. Being a new ministry, MOPR took some time to establish
   FM arrangements. There was also frequent turnover of accounts staff that resulted in delays in the submission of
   financial and audit reports. FM was downgraded in June 2010 and remained so until 2012. During FY10 and
   FY11, disbursements were suspended due to overdue audit reports. A subsequent change of staff within the
   PMT, including hiring of FM consultants, led to significant improvements. Account backlogs were cleared and the
   updated registers maintained until project closure (ICR, p. 10).

   Procurement was generally satisfactory, with one exception. There was a need to contract a large number of
   service providers to deliver ESES to the conflict-affected persons. The preparation and implementation of a Field
   Implementation Manual (FIM) facilitated the smooth implementation of this process. At the outset, ESES activities
   were delayed due to the lack of clarity regarding the process and the activities. The FIM and several rounds of
   orientation programs helped to overcome this issue (ICR, p. 10).

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Moderately                Moderately
                            Satisfactory              Satisfactory
        Risk to Development Negligible to Low         Negligible to Low
                   Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately              Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (pp. 17-18) presents a number of lessons as follows:

         In a high risk and politically sensitive situation, it is critical to be proactive to adjust to the changing
          environment. Hence the restructuring immediately following Board approval;
         Conservative planning in terms of outputs is necessary when preparing emergency operations. In this
          case, overly ambitious objectives with regard to the capacity of a new ministry became an issue.

    In addition, IEG notes the following lesson:

         A field-based TTL and project team that are able to closely monitor implementation and communicate with
          the client in fragile and post-conflict environments can be critical to project outcomes. In the case of
          Nepal, the Bank's teams based in New Delhi and Kathmandu worked hard to build consensus with both
          key government representatives and donor staff on the first project restructuring; more frequent visits by
          the TTL and close coordination continued to be essential in improving project performance as the project
          moved forward.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is clear and provides good information on project implementation and results. The ICR could have done
    a better job linking the project outputs (listed in Annex 2) to the outcomes listed in Section 3.2 of the ICR. Section
    3.2 is rather thin, and reporting is limited to achievement of the revised PDO indicators. The ICR provides several
    good lessons.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
