                       Document of
                   The World Bank


                                             Report No: 72366-TJ




               RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                         ON A

          PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                           OF

FERGHANA VALLEY WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT

              GRANT H1790-TJ July 26, 2005
                        AND
              GRANT H5760-TJ May 25, 2010


                        TO THE

               REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN


                    February 7, 2013
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AF           Additional Financing
PDO          Project Development Objective
WUA          Water User Association
Raivodkhos   Local water management authority




               Regional Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houerou
                     Country Director:        Saroj Kumar Jha
                      Sector Manager:         Dina Umali-Deininger
                    Task Team Leader:         IJsbrand Harko de Jong




                                          2
                          TAJIKISTAN
      FERGHANA VALLEY WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                   Page
A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5




                                                                  3
   FERGHANA VALLEY WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER


  A. SUMMARY

This Restructuring Paper for the Ferghana Valley Water Resources Management Project
seeks approval for the extension of the Closing Date from May 31, 2013 to May 31, 2014
and the addition of a new activity under Part D (Project Management). The project costs
will be updated to reflect these changes, but no reallocations between disbursement
categories are required. In addition, the procurement plan and implementation schedule
will be updated.


  B. PROJECT STATUS

While the original project was approved in 2005 in the amount of SDR 8.7 million
(US$13 million equivalent; IDA Grant H1790-TJ), the project received Additional
Financing (AF) in 2010 in the amount of SDR 6.6 million (US$10 million equivalent;
IDA Grant H5760-TJ). AF was provided to finance a cost overrun due to the increased
cost of works and goods, the completion of additional works identified in detailed designs
during project implementation, and expanded activities to increase the capacity of
raivodkhoses and Water User Associations (WUAs).

The Project Development Objective (PDO) continues to be achievable and to date, a
number of PDO and intermediate outcome indicator targets have been achieved. Thus,
over 8,000 ha (against the original target of 6,450 ha) of project area has returned to
effective irrigation, the dam safety management and emergency action plan is in place,
early warning systems have been established and tested, and all 95 observation wells
have been rehabilitated and renovated. However, in view of the delays in implementing
construction works and the weaknesses in the capacity of WUAs, Implementation
Progress and Progress towards achieving the Project’s Development Objective are rated
moderately unsatisfactory. Both Part A: Irrigation and Drainage System rehabilitation
and Improvements, and Part C: Institutional Development and TA, are suffering from
slow implementation progress, reflected in the modest increase in the disbursement rate
in the last year. Under Part A, delays are related to the very tight window for
implementing works that is affected by (i) water levels in the Kayrakkum reservoir; (ii)
the agricultural growing season; and (iii) the often harsh winter season. Effectively, for
many of the works, this leaves only a few months per year during which construction
works can be implemented. In addition, some of the vertical drainage wells have failed
prematurely and clear recommendations have been made to repair these and to avoid
problems in future. An action plan to address this urgently has been prepared. The delay
in implementing Part C (Institutional Development and Technical Assistance (TA)) was
caused by slow farm restructuring in the project area. The local authorities in some areas
were reluctant to implement land reforms, and consequently no foundation was
established for setting up the WUAs. Although these issues have now been resolved,

                                            4
these delays exacerbate already weak WUA capacity in recovering costs and conducting
maintenance. Additional time beyond the current closing date is required to strengthen
the WUAs.

The Government has agreed to an action plan to accelerate the implementation of delayed
activities. The extension of the Closing Date in combination with implementation of the
agreed action plan should produce significant progress so that the project ratings can be
upgraded as project objectives continue to be achievable.

The project has also suffered from an overdue audit report, but the Bank received the
audit report on September 27, 2012, and the report’s findings were satisfactory.
Currently, there are no overdue audits.


   C. PROPOSED CHANGES

       Components

        The change to Part D includes the addition of consultant services to carry out
    preparatory studies for a successor project that would consolidate the gains achieved
    thus far and would scale up the project to additional raions.

       Financing

        The change to project costs reflects (i) the additional activity above, (ii) additional
        project management costs due to the Closing Date extension, and (iii) fluctuation
        in the cost of construction work and consulting services in Parts A-C. Project
        Costs will be revised as follows:

                               Project Costs (US$m.)*
                Components/Activities                 Current                      Proposed

 A. Irrigation and Drainage Systems Rehabilitation and            15.1               15.6
 Improvement
 B. Strengthening of Kayrakkum Reservoir                          6.0                 5.3
 Embankments and Related Drainage Control Works
 C. Institutional Development and Technical Assistance             2.2                2.1
 D. Project Management                                             0.9                1.2
 Total                                                            24.2               24.2
* Project costs include the original IDA Grant of $13 million, AF IDA Grant of $10 million and
Government contribution of $1.2 million
The SDR-USD exchange rate of March 31, 2005 of 1.50803000 was used to convert the USD to SDRs
under the original financing;
The SDR-USD exchange rate of March 31, 2010 of 1.518240 was used to convert the USD to SDR under
AF.

       Procurement



                                                5
    In accordance with the newly added activities, the procurement plan will be
    updated.

   Closing Date

    The original Closing Date was May 31, 2011, which was extended to May 31,
    2013 when the Additional Financing was approved. It is proposed to extend the
    Closing Date by an additional year to May 31, 2014. The proposed extension is
    necessary to complete all works and strengthen the WUAs. Construction works
    can only be implemented during a few months per year. As a result of this, some
    of the works have been delayed. It would be challenging to recover these delays
    as only a few months of effective construction time remain before the Closing
    Date, by which time it is unlikely that all works will be completed. This would be
    the second Closing Date extension for the project for a cumulative extension of
    three years.

   Implementation Schedule

    The delay in implementing construction works in Part A will be recovered during
    the extended term. The considerable weakness of WUAs in recovering costs and
    conducting maintenance activities will be covered during the extended term, as
    global experience indicates that persistent and long-term capacity strengthening is
    required. Specifically, with respect to WUAs, the action plan includes recruitment
    of an international consultant with the global knowledge and expertise to resolve
    the existing gaps under this component.




                                         6
