 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14702

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/26/2015

               Country: Tajikistan
             Project ID: P084035                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Ferghana Valley               Project Costs (US$M):                     14.17               24.21
                         Water Resources
                         Management Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      13.00               23.45
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  07/26/2005
                                                               Closing Date:             05/31/2011           05/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (66%); General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);
                           General public administration sector (10%); Agricultural extension and research (2%); Crops
                           (2%)
          Theme(s):        Water resource management (33%); Environmental policies and institutions (17%);
                           Participation and civic engagement (17%); Rural policies and institutions (17%); Land
                           administration and management (16%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Ebru Karamete              Ridley Nelson           Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
   The original project development objectives stated in the Development Grant Agreement (p. 12) is: " (i) to increase
the capacity of productivity of irrigated agriculture in the Ferghana Valley by improving land and water management;
and, (ii) to improve Kayrakkum dam and reservoir safety and regulation thereby contributing to enhanced water
management security and efficiency at the basin level".

The Project Appraisal Document statement of objectives is slightly different (p. 6): "(i) to improve the capacity for
increased irrigated agriculture productivity in the Ferghana Valley by improving land and water management; and, (ii)
to improve safety and regulation of the Kayrakkum Dam and Reservoir, thereby contributing to enhanced water
management security and efficiency at the basin level.

This review uses the Development Grant Agreement version for the assessment of the original objectives.

The project objectives were revised at the time of Additional Financing (May 25, 2010) as follows: "to assist the
Recipient in: (i) increasing the coverage of drained and irrigated areas in Bobojon Gafurov and Kannibodom raions,
respectively; and, (ii) strengthening the early warning system of the Kayrakkum dam as well as carrying out a
geotechnical study for assessing the risks associated with said dam" (Financing Agreement p. 4).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 05/25/2010
c. Components:
The project had 4 components. The actual costs presented below include additional financing.

A. Irrigation and Drainage Systems Rehabilitation and Improvements (Appraisal Estimate : US$ 9.02 million, Actual
US$ 15.14 million). This component was designed to finance design and works for rehabilitation of pumped and
gravity irrigation and drainage I&D systems serving 30,000 ha of farm land in the Kanibodom and Bobojon Gufarov
raions. The work included re-forming and cleaning of main and secondary collector drains, and rehabilitation of
associated drainage pumping stations; renovation of I&D tubewell systems; rehabilitation of selected major irrigation
pumping station systems; repairs and lining of selected sections of the Big Ferghana Canal (BFC); and improvements
to selected inter-farm and on-farm surface and subsurface I&D systems.

B. Strengthening Kayrakkum Reservoir Dykes and Improvement of Kayrakkum Dam Safety and Reservoir Operation
(Appraisal Estimate : US$ 3.03 million, Actual US$ 5.66 million). This component was designed to fund: design and
works related to rehabilitation of the Kayrakkum Reservoir dykes in Kanibodom and Bobojon Gufarov raions; and
technical studies, dredging and other equipment and instrumentations, and minor works to increase operational
performance and improve management of the Kayrakkum Dam and Reservoir. The latter was to improve dam safety
and to develop dam and reservoir emergency procedures.

C. Institutional Development and Technical Assistance (Appraisal Estimate : US$ 1.37 million, Actual US$ 1.68
million). This component was designed to fund the necessary institutional capacity building for establishment of
Water User Associations (WUAs); improving agricultural productivity and achieving more efficient water use patterns;
and, ensuring proper environmental impact mitigating measures. Activities planned included training, technical
assistance, and demonstration programs.

D. Project Management (Appraisal Estimate : US$ 0.75 million, Actual US$ 1.74 million). This component aimed to
finance assistance to the central Project Management Unit (PMU) within the Ministry of Melioration and Water
Resources Management (MMWRM), and to the regional Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in Khujand for
project implementation. Funds supported project supervision, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, as well as
institutional strengthening program that included training and study tours.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Costs:
Total costs increased from the appraisal estimate of US$ 14.17 million to US$ 24.21 million because additional
financing was added to the project to finance cost overrun due to ‘under-design’ during project preparation and
significant price increases on most goods and works, to complete additional works identified in detailed designs during
implementation, to expand activities to increase the capacity of district Water Departments and WUAs, and to finance
an in depth geotechnical study for Kayrakkum dam with a number of measures to improve the safety of the dam.
Financing:
The original IDA Grant was SDR 8.7 million (US$ 13.0 million). Additional financing of SDR 6.6 million (US$ 10.00
million equivalent) was added from IDA funds. By project closing, SDR 8.65 million was spent (US$ 13.43 million
equivalent) from the original grant and SDR 6.52 million (US$ 10.02 million equivalent) from additional financing.
Prior to closure of the project, SDR 0.12 million was cancelled from IDA funds.

Borrower Contribution :
The Borrower contribution was lower than that anticipated at appraisal. It was expected that the Borrower would
provide US$ 1.17 million, and actual contribution was US$ 0.76 million. The ICR reported that an increase to 100
percent financing from grant proceeds was done to alleviate the burden of counterpart financing on Tajikistan’s
constrained budget.
Dates:
The projects closing date of May 31, 2011 was extended twice. On May 25, 2010, at the time of approval of the
additional financing, the closing date was extended for 2 years to May 31, 2013 and on May 15, 2013, the closing date
was extended one more year to May 31, 2014 in order to allow sufficient time to complete remaining project activities
(i.e. construction works and capacity building of WUAs that had been delayed).


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objectives
Substantial
The project's original objectives were and remained substantially relevant to the country priorities and strategies. They
were aligned with the Country Partnership Strategy (2010-14), particularly with its second objective of sustained
post-crisis recovery through an emphasis on increasing agricultural productivity and maintaining capital assets for
power generation. Ferghana Valley is an important region of Central Asia, and at the time of appraisal, agricultural
income from the Ferghana Valley supported about 2 million people and covered approximately 700,000 ha in
Tajikistan territory of which about 220,000 ha were suitable for irrigation (ICR p. 1). Since the collapse of the Soviet
Union, the irrigation and drainage systems had deteriorated, leading to unreliable irrigation water supplies, drainage
and water-logging problems, and reductions in irrigated area, soil fertility, cropping intensity and crop yields. The
actual irrigated area in 2002 was only 134,000 ha. Efficient agriculture, irrigation and water management remained
critical to enhancing the livelihoods of rural households living in the region.

The Government was keen to reduce poverty; however, there were only limited resources available to address many
issues including the weakness of the institutional capacity. The Government's strategy on poverty considered
Ferghana Valley as one of the main areas to target by emphasizing the need to involve water users more in resources
management and maintenance to enhance sustainability of irrigation systems (ICR p. 2). The project was part of other
World Bank projects supporting the sector including the Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project, Farm Privatization
Support Project and the Land Registration and Cadastre System for Sustainable Agriculture Project-LRCSP. The
project was particularly linked to LRCSP to enhance the benefits of privatization with the concurrent rehabilitation of
basic rural irrigation infrastructure and to introduce water users associations (WUAs), which were nonexistent at the
time. In addition, the project had regional impact, benefiting downstream countries as well as Tajikistan.

Revised Objectives
Substantial
The revised objectives were also relevant to country priorities and strategies but they were output oriented, i.e. they
mainly defined the project activities. They were also a significant retreat from the ambitious original objectives, since
there was no longer inclusion of an objective of productivity or improvement of dam safety and regulation but merely
inclusion of a study and a warning system. The second part of the objective, despite being less ambitious as well as
more specific, still brought certain risks in terms of not being able to achieve the PDO, a point that is discussed in the
following section.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Original Design
Modest
Overall the results framework presented a partial logical causal chain between project activities and expected
attainment of the objective. The first component supported rehabilitation and improvements in irrigation and drainage
systems covering 30,000 ha in Ferghana Valley. Improving the supply of irrigation water and addressing drainage and
water logging problems, was expected to increase soil fertility and crop yields and therefore would serve the
achievement of the first part of the objective. Component 2 tried to increase Kayrakkum dam’s operational
performance and safety by strengthening the reservoir dykes and minor works and thereby served achievement of the
second objective. However, improving the safety of the dam required more detailed analysis and investigations and a
significant amount of resources, as the reliability and stability of the structures were unknown. Therefore, the activities
and funds serving the second part of the objective were very limited and therefore, were not sufficient to achieve the
objective. Another weakness was that although the project provided some resources to the Water User Associations
through Component 3, it lacked support to strengthen management and the institutional capacity of WUAs.

Revised Design
Modest
The project components primarily stayed the same under the revised design. The new PDO was substantially less
ambitious and became more narrowly output-oriented, but it didn't resolve the design issues highlighted above. It also
introduced an additional weakness and risk of failing to meet the PDO in the second part of the objective, it included a
complex and costly study (the geotechnical study).

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
    Original Objective (i): to increase the capacity of productivity of irrigated agriculture in the Ferghana Valley by improving land and
water management; rated modest due to lack of evidence regarding achievement of the objectives.

Outputs: Several of the original outcome targets were not achieved (See table below).
Outcomes:
 According to the PAD, the project identified the following outcome indicators to measure achievement of the outcome:
         70% reduction of flooded and waterlogged land areas within project perimeters near levees. The original target was 5,000 ha
and end of project achievement was 3,530 ha, less than the original target.
         30% improvement in timely water availability in irrigated areas under the project. The ICR did not report on this outcome
indicator.
WUAs established and functioning adequately in Western Kanibodom. The ICR reported that WUAs are functioning actively, collecting
water fees, and making decisions via general assembly meetings (ICR p. 20-21).However, it is not clear from the ICR if these WUAs set
up through project support cover Western Kanibodom area.
         80% collection of billed water fees from WUAs established for more than a year under the project, for O&M of I&D gravity
and pumped systems, particularly tubewell systems. In 2011, average fee collection rate was 52.3 %, which increased to 86 % at project
completion.
         10% increase in crop yields. The ICR did not report on this indicator.


Original Objective (ii): to improve Kayrakkum dam and reservoir safety and regulation thereby contributing to enhanced water
management security and efficiency at the basin level; rated negligible due to lack of evidence on achievements.

Outputs:




Outcomes:
The outcome indicators identified at appraisal were:
       Dam safety management and emergency action plan.
       Forecast accuracy for available reservoir storage volumes and inflow/outflow volumes improved to 70% accuracy level.
The ICR did not report on the achievements for these indicators.. Subsequently the project team stated that the dam safety and
emergency action plan was in place. However, no outcome evidence was provided on the achievement regarding the improvement of the
dam and reservoir safety.

Revised Objective: (i) increasing the coverage of drained and irrigated areas in Bobojon Gafurov and Kannibodom raions, respectively;
rated, substantial.

Outputs:
In addition, the project provided training to the 3 established WUAs to increase their capacities on cost recovery, budget preparation. The
ICR reported that WUAs are functioning actively, collecting water fees, and making decisions via general assembly meetings (ICR p.
20-21).

Outcomes:
The revised outcome indicators were as follows:
        Reduction of flooded and waterlogged land areas within project perimeters (ha). The revised target was 3,500 ha and end of
project achievement was 3,530 ha (Kannibodom district - 2,330 ha and Gafurov district - 1,200 ha).
        Area returned to effective irrigation under the project. As of end of project, 7,349 ha returned to effective irrigation compared to
the 2010 revised target of 6,450.
        Collection of billed water fees by WUAs. The target was 80 % and achievement as of end of project was 86 %.

Revised Objective: (ii) strengthening the early warning system of the Kayrakkum dam as well as carrying out a geotechnical study for
assessing the risks associated with the dam; rated modest due to partial achievement of the objective.

Outputs:




Outcomes:
The objective was partially achieved; the geotechnical study was not completed but is planned to be completed with EBRD’s additional
resources. An early warning system was established and operational. Forecast accuracy for available reservoir storage reportedly
improved (ICR page 15).


 5. Efficiency:
  Substantial
Ex-ante economic analysis was based on the following assumptions: (i) Benefits of the project were mainly from
agricultural productivity increases as a result of improved irrigation water delivery and a reduction of problems caused
by flooding and high groundwater levels. (ii) The project interventions in the Kanibodom and Bobojon Gafurov raions
covered an irrigated area of 30,000 ha, main crops being cotton (66 % of area), followed by wheat, apricots and
fodder production for livestock.(iii) Yields would increase by: apricots-22%, wheat, and fodder- between 13 - 17% and
cotton yields -10%. (iv) Project investment costs were US$ 14.17 million, and additionally working capital costs for
farms were considered including costs for fertilizer, chemicals, seeds and labor. Based on these assumptions, the
estimated Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the project was 20.0%, which was higher than the 12% discount rate.
The net present value (NPV) was estimated at US$ 6.1 million. The Financial Rate of Return (FRR) amounted to
18.2% and the corresponding NPV was US $ 4.7 million.

The quite thorough ex-post economic analysis was based on results of: Monitoring and Evaluation data; interviews
with farmers by Sugd Oblast Department of Agency of Land Reclamation and Irrigation and Sugd Oblast Department
of Agriculture; and the Report of Statistical Agency on Regions of Tajikistan, 2012. The main benefit assumptions
were: (i) additional production on incremental land as a result of reduced flooding, (ii) higher yield levels as a result of
better, more reliable and increased water delivery, and improved groundwater control and earlier spring planting, (iii)
production of higher value crops as part of a more diversified cropping pattern, and (iv) reduced pumping costs per m3
as a result of reduced losses.

Other assumptions were:(i) Project coverage for irrigated area of 29,874 ha (2013), of which 6,685 ha were located in
Bobojon Gafurov raion and 23,188 ha in Kannibodom raion; (ii) Main crops were orchards and cotton respectively
with 36% and 32% of the total area; followed by cereals with 12.5% and fodder crops (alfalfa, maize, including for
silage) covering 4%; and others crops (rice, potato, grapes and others crops) with 9.5%. (iii) Yield increases between
2006 and 2013 were: raw cotton 23.5 %, cereals 9.6 %, vegetables 14 %, orchards (including apricot) 14 %, forage
11.7 %.

Based on these assumptions, the estimated ERR of the project was 24.3%, higher than the discount rate of 10% and
the NPV was calculated as US$ 28.43 million. FRR was 19.4% and corresponding NPV was US$ 17.96 million.

The ICR reported the fact that additional financing of US$ 10 million was provided in order to complete the project
works that were reduced in terms of scope due to the larger than projected task and input prices and the lack of
details in the initial projections. However, the ICR offered limited explanation of how the ex-post analysis brought
higher ERR rates compared to ex-ante calculations despite higher costs and reduced scope. One reason evident in
the data is that the cotton area fell dramatically due to lower prices and reduced competitiveness – from 66% of the
total area to 32 %. The data suggest that it was replaced by higher value more intensive crops. The project team
subsequently verified this result stating that orchards, which is a cash crop increased from a level of 3 percent to 32
percent of total area during the project period. In addition, unlike the ex-ante analysis, the ex-post analysis estimated
incremental returns from project investments on flood protection structures which resulted in freeing 3,540 hectares of
agricultural lands from waterlogging and flooding; as well as an additional 7,350 hectares of agricultural lands that
returned to production

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                       20%                                     100%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      24.3%                                    100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Original Project Outcome :
Moderately Unsatisfactory . Owing to shortcomings in the efficacy of achieving the original project objectives and to a
lesser extent in the relevance of design, the pre-restructuring development outcome is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. The relevance of the objective is rated substantial but design modest due to the fact that the second
part of the PDO was unrealistic and project activities and funds were too limited to achieve that objective. The
efficacy of achieving the first objective is rated modest and the second objective negligible due to lack of results in
achieving it. Efficiency is rated substantial.

Revised Project Outcome :
Moderately Satisfactory . There were moderate shortcomings in the relevance and achievement of the revised
objectives. Relevance of design is rated modest since design issues remained. Achievement of the first objective is
rated substantial due to achievements of indicators based on revised targets; achievement of the second objective, is
rated modest due to partial achievement (not being able to complete the geotechnical study). Efficiency is rated
substantial.
Overall Project Outcome :
Moderately Satisfactory . This is on the basis of a split rating. Overall, the project exhibited moderate shortcomings.
The combined outcome rating is weighted according to the proportion of the loan that was disbursed before and after
the restructuring. As the original project had disbursed US$ 10.43 million, or 44.5 %, the combined outcome rating is
moderately satisfactory (i.e. rating for moderately unsatisfactory is 3 and moderately satisfactory is 4; the weighted
average of the two based on disbursements before and after restructuring, gives (0.44x3)+(0.56x4) which rounds to a
rating of 4 – moderately satisfactory).
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
     The institutional risk is rated Significant. The ICR (p. 24)reported that WUA law needed to be revised to make it
more effective for resolving some remaining issues such as links between farm restructuring and irrigation
management, as well as taxation of WUAs and irrigation and drainage asset transfers to WUAs. The ICR
recommended that the Bank needed to be closely involved to resolve these issues through the PAMP2 project. A
second phase project planned for FY 2016 is going to continue project activities (ICR page 11).

The financial risk is rated Moderate. According to the ICR (p. 24) the increasing WUA membership helps WUAs
improve their financial resources, but also brings additional challenges in operating the system. WUAs need to
establish a computer database system to manage water contracts and to monitor the collection of water fees. The
transfer of irrigation assets will require increased budget to cover O&M costs, spare parts and electricity in the future.
So, increased membership needs to be maintained for adequate cost recovery of WUAs.

The environmental and social risk is rated Low. Environmental issues identified by the Mid-term Review mainly with
respect to contractor sites (ICR 2.4) were mostly resolved since the Mid-term Review. The project also monitored
health and safety measures, including tracking waste generation and monitoring groundwater quality. In terms of
social risks, the project helped to empower the WUAs, however, it appears that they are still not responsible for O&M
until the operational structures have been handed over to them, there is therefore a long way to go to full WUA
operational sustainability. It is argued that the higher agricultural productivity and incomes will benefit the poor.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The ICR (p. 5) noted that the project concept and design drew on lessons from similar projects implemented
globally as well as in former Soviet countries. Main lessons were: the need to address both irrigation (pumping
capacity) problems and drainage problems; tackling power system deficiencies; and the need to develop WUAs
with system users who are owners or long-term tenants of the lands being serviced. Project preparation was fast
but there was limited availability of data to ensure high-quality preparation due to fragility and post conflict
situation of the country and increasing poverty levels. The deficiencies during preparation were expected to be
addressed during implementation.

The ICR reported (p. 6) the following weaknesses in project design:
(i) It failed to properly address some of the key issues/risks that were identified during preparation, including the
inadequacy of a single operation to address the complex water management aspects in a country where there is
limited local capacity. There is a valid case made in the ICR that there should have been a phased longer-term
program of an Adaptable Program Loan. Although the WUA development was dependent on land privatization and
the project timing had to be closely linked with LRCSP, the risk of delays with the LRCSP were not mitigated by
design of preemptive alternative actions should this happen. Also, the design failed to address sustainability of
WUAs as it lacked support to strengthen management and the low capacity of WUAs.
(ii) The PDO was unrealistic in stating that the project would ‘improve safety and regulation of the Kayrakkum
Dam and Reservoir". Improving the safety of the dam, where the reliability and stability of the structures were
unknown, would have involved more in-depth investigations and preparatory expenditure.
(iii) Project costs and the scope of the works were not adequately assessed during preparation. This led to cost
overruns and delays in implementation.

These were significant shortcomings and point to a moderately unsatisfactory rating of Quality at Entry.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
 b. Quality of supervision:
     The ICR noted that (p. 25) supervision had some weaknesses mainly during the initial years of the project, but
it improved after Mid-Term Review. The team decreased the project output targets to attainable levels as well as
increased financing of works to 100 percent when counterpart funding was not available. The inclusion of
additional finance was a timely and necessary decision to facilitate achievement of the PDO. The Bank had
regular supervision missions and closely monitored the project during 2012-2013 period. Despite the delays with
the LRCSP restructuring due to the land issue, the team moved Component 3 forward. In addition, the ICR
reported that the safeguards and fiduciary supervision was carried out adequately. For example, the Bank team
and the PMU jointly prepared an action plan in order to resolve the weak compliance in environmental safeguards.
The Bank also provided assistance to the PMU to ensure better control over identified FM issues.

The weaknesses with supervision were the following: (i) According to the ICR, the reporting on the project was not
candid particularly during the initial years. For example although there were significant cost over-runs and the risk
of not being able to achieve the PDO, the ISR ratings of the rating of the achievement of the Development
Objectives was still at the satisfactory level up until the second half of 2009. (ii) The reformulation of the PDO
during the Additional Financing, brought additional problems, i.e. including the geotechnical study into the revised
PDO. The cost and complexity of such a study was underestimated.

On balance, Quality of Supervision is rated moderately satisfactory.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The ICR reported (p. 26), several shortcomings in terms of the Government's performance including lack of
timely counterpart funding and lack of timely replacement of the PMU Director, which affected project
implementation negatively. Due to delays in funding from the government, the contractors did not receive
payments for completed civil contracts, and project activities were delayed. The Ministry of Finance also delayed
responding to written communication from the PMU.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The ICR noted that the PMU and the regional PIU made good efforts to move the project forward. However,
there were some issues on implementing environmental safeguards as well as delays in submission of financial
management reviews and audits. The PMU followed procurement and FM guidelines in general and maintained a
system of accounting and reporting. In addition to the PMU and PIU, other agencies such as the Ministry of Land
Reclamation and Water Resources, the Ministry of Finance, Hukumats, jamoats and Raivodkhoz, Mahalla
committees and WUAs made an essential contribution to project implementation. Nevertheless, delayed
reappointments of the PMU Director in 2006 and in 2012/13 had a substantial negative effect on implementation.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   M&E design planned to use the existing data sources, supplemented by regular routine project data collection and
special surveys. The Results Framework was sound, i.e. outcome indicators were linked to the objective and
intermediate outcome indicators tried to capture the project’s activities under each component. The monitoring design
included a final M&E report on the status of the project implementation and outputs of all components.
 b. M&E Implementation:
   The ICR reported that (p. 9), overall, the M&E system was well maintained. The M&E Specialist provided regular
reports on M&E to the PMU. However, in the earlier years, M&E reports were more focused on project oversight,
procurement and contract status and outputs rather than reporting on emerging project outcomes. Based on that the
Bank team clarified the M&E focus and suggested methods to collect data. In terms of the independent project impact
assessment conducted at project closing, it would have been stronger if the project had identified a control group at
project start-up, or obtained a baseline for a sample of representative households in Ferghana Valley, followed by a
final survey at the end.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The ICR did not report on utilization of M&E data.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was categorized as B in terms of environmental safeguards. The safeguards policies triggered were:
projects on international waterways (OP/BP 7.60) and safety of dams (OP/BP 4.37).The Environmental Assessment
(EA) found no major irreversible, cumulative or longer-term adverse impacts. It identified a number of positive effects
associated with improved irrigated agricultural productivity, improved public health, reduced water losses and
enhanced soil fertility. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) included a detailed monitoring plan to determine
the direct and indirect environmental and social impacts.

The ICR reported that (p. 9), during the MTR it was identified that safety aspects of rehabilitated works were being
inappropriately managed, with no safety signage at on-going works and no delineation of work area. The mission
recommended putting up signs where preparation work was being done for reinforcement of the dam embankment.
Also, it was learnt that chemical/test kits that received ‘No objection’ for purchase were expired for at least four years.
Based on the Bank's request, new chemicals/test kits were procured. Such issues were a result of a vacant position
for the Environmental Specialist. Monitoring of EMP implementation was regularly performed by the PMU
Environmental Specialist (ES) until June 2008, when his contract expired. Although the project M&E consultant had
partially covered these aspects by visual observation, overall implementation lacked consistent reporting and
communication by PMU on EMP aspects since June 2008. At the MTR, it was agreed that the PMU would hire a
specialist immediately, and the rating of Environmental Safeguards was downgraded to MS due to weak compliance.
An Environmental Specialist was hired, and the environmental assessment was rated satisfactory by project closing.
However, the overall safeguards rating at project closing was MS, since the outcome indicator on Safety of Dams was
not met. The ICR did not report on the compliance vis-a-vie the safeguard international waterways (OP/BP 7.60).

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
The ICR reported that (p. 10), the Financial Management (FM) review at the time of the MTR identified several
weaknesses and FM was downgraded to MS. The problems included a delay in submitting Financial Management
Reviews and the inadequacy of internal controls and untimely availability of counterpart funds. The Bank requested
that the PMU hire an assistant accountant in order to provide better control over FM issues. Further FM downgrade in
August 2012 was due to significant delays in submitting the project audit, and project IFRs for 2011 and 2012, and
weaknesses in the implementation of internal control procedures. In late 2013, FM was upgraded to MS as the
Government submitted the project and AF financial statement in a timely manner, and the PMU took steps to
implement recommendations.

Overall, the PMU followed the procurement processes based on Bank guidelines and had enough capacity to process
all necessary procurement work under the project. Procurement, however, was downgraded following the Post
Procurement Review (PPR) in 2009, due to the processing and award of contracts, which in two instances, deviated
from the Bank’s Guidelines. Overall, procurement performance of the PMU remained satisfactory. Lack of
Government contribution of funds, however, delayed contractual payments to contractors.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately        Overall, the project exhibited moderate
                               Unsatisfactory               Satisfactory      shortcomings. Owing to shortcomings
                                                                              in the efficacy of achieving the original
                                                                              project objectives and to a lesser extent
                                                                              in relevance of design, pre-restructuring
                                                                              development outcome is rated
                                                                              Moderately Unsatisfactory. There were
                                                                              moderate shortcomings in the
                                                                              relevance and achievement of the
                                                                              revised objectives, therefore revised
                                                                              outcome is rated as Moderately
                                                                              Satisfactory. The combined outcome
                                                                              rating of the restructured project, which
                                                                              is weighted according to the proportion
                                                                              of the loan that was disbursed before
                                                                              and after the restructuring, with a larger
                                                                              share post restructuring,, is Moderately
                                                                              Satisfactory.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant       Risk to development outcome is driven
                     Outcome:                                                 largely by the institutional risk which is
                                                                              rated as Significant due to remaining
                                                                              issues that still need to be resolved
                                                                              such as links between farm
                                                                              restructuring and irrigation
                                                                              management; as well as taxation of
                                                                              WUAs and irrigation and drainage asset
                                                                              transfers to WUAs.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following lessons were noted by the ICR, the main ones are as follows with some reformulation of language:

         In the absence of detailed calculations at project design on the volume of works , taking into account the
seasonal prevalence of work and realistic costing /budgeting, project implementation is likely to face problems .
This is especially important in projects that include large infrastructure building. The project suffered from cost
overruns partly due to ‘under design’ at preparation, resulting in delayed implementation and impact on the project’s
reach.
         When project implementation requires harmonization with the implementation of other projects , it is
important to identify alternative actions in case of possible delays in the other projects . WUA development under
the project was highly dependent on land privatization under LRCSP; however, the project was unprepared with
alternative measures when land privatization was delayed.
         Farm restructuring needs to be demand -driven. The project spent time convincing some less willing farms
to implement restructuring, while there were other farms that were keen to restructure. The project should have
prioritized to take advantage of the easier opportunities first and to capitalize on a demonstration effect..

        PDOs need to capture project outcomes rather than outputs . In this case, the geotechnical study was
unsuitable as an element in the revised objectives and, in the event, there were insufficient funds to complete it.

       Realistic and consistently applied project ratings during implementation help to address shortcomings
promptly. In this case, management was not well informed by the reporting and ratings during the early
years.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was in many respects well written, with a good narration of implementation progress, challenges and delays.
However, the following points needed attention: (i) The results and achievements under the original objective were not
adequately reflected; (ii) The economic analysis, while generally quite thorough did not explore the differences
between ex-ante and ex-post analyses which would have provided added evidence on cost effectiveness. There was
no reporting of any action or decisions related to OP/BP 7.60 on projects international waterways, whether it was later
deemed not applicable or whether it was applied or whether it was addressed under one of the parallel projects.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
