2 7 MAR 2013
IOFMICKA
DOCUMEINTS
The World Bank                            -     ematSeN.W.                (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS
March 15, 2013
Mr. Safarali Najmiddinov
Minister
Ministry of Finance
3, Akademikho Rajabovho str.
Dushanbe 734025
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
Dear Mr. Najmiddinov
Re: Tajikistan Grant No. H576-TJ
(Additional Financing for Ferghana Valley Water Resources Management Project)
Amendment to Financing Agreement
We refer to the Financing Agreement between the Republic of Tajikistan (the Recipient) and the
International Development Association (the Association), dated August 5, 2010 (the Financing Agreement)
for the above-referenced Project. We also refer to your request of July 30, 2012 to amend the Financing
Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association concurs with your request and agrees to amend
the Financing Agreement as follows:
(1)    The Project Description in Schedule I is amended to read as follows:
"The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in: (i) increasing the coverage of
drained and irrigated areas in Bobojon Gafurov and Kannibodom raions, respectively; and (ii)
strengthening the early warning system of the Kayrakkum dam as well as carrying out a
geotechnical study for assessing the risks associated with said dam.
"The Project consists of the Original Project, with the following modifications:
A.     The Original Project's objective, as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Original
Financing Agreement, is amended to read consistently with the objective of this
Project, as follows:
"The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in: (i) increasing the
coverage of drained and irrigated areas in Bobojon Gafurov and Kannibodom
raions, respectively; and (ii) strengthening the early warning system of the
Kayrakkum dam as well as carrying out a geotechnical study for assessing the
risks associated with said dam.
B.     Part D of the Original Project's Description is amended to read as follows:
"Part D:      Proiect Management
"Assistance with the establishment of the PMU and PIU and
strengthening their capacity for the Project management, monitoring and
evaluation, including  audit, procurement, disbursement and  financial


﻿Mr. Safarali Najmiddinov                 -2-                               March 15, 2013
management activities, through provision of goods, technical assistance, training
and financing of their operating costs, and preparation of a feasibility study for a
new project."
(2)    The Closing Date in Schedule 2, Section IV, Part B.2 of the Financing Agreement is amended to
read May 31, 2014.
Except as specifically amended above, all other provisions of the Financing Agreement remain in
full force and effect.
Please confirm the agreement of the Recipient with the foregoing by countersigning and dating
both copies of this amendment letter and returning one of the countersigned copies to us. The
Amendment will become effective upon receipt by the Association of this Amendment Letter duly
countersigned by the authorized representative of the Recipient.
Very Truly Yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSQCIATION
Saroj Kumar Jha
Regional Director
Central Asia
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF AJIKISTAN
By:     (
Title: Minister of Finance
Date: (nVrC4, " /            /


﻿Mr. Safarali Najmiddinov                 -3-                                March 15, 2013
Cleared wl& cc:      Adam Shayne (LEG)


