Docuntentof
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
Rpwat No. 11471
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 1882-BO)
DECEMBER 22, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:11471 BO         Type:  (PCR)
Title:   SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND Pt
Author: BARQUERO, P
Ext.:31757 Room:T9017 Dept.:OEDD1
Population and Human Resources Division
Country De.partment III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso Boliviano
Avetaze Exchanae Rates
1988   Bs. 2.35 - US$ 1.0
1989   Bs. 2.69 - US$ 1.0
1990   Bs. 3.17 - US$ 1.0
1991   Bs. 3.58 - US$ 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ESF       - Emergency Social Fund
NGO       -  Non-Governmental Organization
PCR       -  Project Completion Report
PVO       -  Private Voluntary Organization
SDR       -  Special Drawing Rights
SIF       -  Social Investment Fund
UDAPE     - lUnidad de Anilisis de Politica Econ6mica
(Unit for Economic Policy Analysis)



FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wairngto D.G 20433
USA
Opw EVWUon
December 22,1992
MEDIORANDIIkl TO           EXIECl)"lV PnZOM)R AND TH;IEN
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bolivia
Second Emerfency Social Fund Project (Credit 1882-BC)
Attached is a copy of the above-named report, prepared by the Latin America Regional
Oice. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. It is comprehensive and informative.
The goal of the Emergency Social Fund was to help alleviate the social costs of economic
adjustment by prviding short-term, temporay employment to those adverely affected and by
bolstering basic social services that deteriorated duing the economic crsis. It exceeded most of its
tagts, including the employment goals, in part because it attracted other external funds to xan
the program. Although designed to provide short-term relief, the projec can be considered
sustainable in that (a) 80%o of social assistance and 95% of social infrastructure sub-projects
were operating 1-2 years beyond their completion; and (b) the Government has adopted the general
concept and incorporated it into its Social Investment Fund, which the Bank is now supporting.
No audit is planned since the first project was aucited when the second was two-thirds
completed, and evaluated the implementation of both projects
Attachment
Thi domm       has a    ted dt l and  y be  ud by  o    * Ithe fw       
tw d:ial duO _  X contrf may not rgwbe be dbcbsed wMlhWaW Baft auB - t 



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 1882-B0)
TABLE O CONTEMS
EVALUTION SOIARY  .i. ... .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . .. ..   iii
PART I.  PROJECTREVIEW FRnomT  BANK'S-PSPECT=    .......... .   1
A.   Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.   Background  . *.  * * * * * * * * .. . ....   * * * * * * * * * * ....    1
Econo ic Background   . . . . . . .  . .  . . . . .      . . .   1
The Social Costs of the Economic Crsis   ......... ..    1
The Emergency Social Fund: Origin and Background   . . . . . .   2
C.  Project Objectives and Description  .  .  . . . . . . . .  . . .   2
D.   Project Design and Organization   ...............    2
Project A&niistration ....................                        3
E.  Project Implementation  . ................ .. .   3
Variation  in Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . ..  . .   3
Procurement   . s  J   9 9 9 9 * # * * * *  * 9 * * * * * * *  * * *    4
Project Risks   . . . . . * . . . *   * * .     * . . . a . ... .   5
F.   Project Results   9 * * * * * * * * *  . . * . . . .   . . .  *  * *   5
Impact on the Adjustment Process: Macroeconomic Impact   . . .   5
Employment and Targeting  .........           ..........          6
Infrastructure  9 * *   * * * * * * . .  * * * * * . . . . .   * *   7
Social Services   ...   * * .   * * * * * * * * * * * * * 9 * *   7
Institutional Impact  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .............  ...... .    8
Poverty Alleviation   . . . . . . . . .   9. .   9.  9 9 9 . 9 * 9 9   8
Ixpact on Women   . . .*. .9. .9 . . . . .9. . .9 . .9 . .9 . .9 . .   9
Enviromental Impact  . * a ... ... ...........................   10
G.   Project Sustainability  ................... .   10
N1.  IDA's Performance                I.. 9 * * 9 9 9 9 9 9   *   *  11
Lessons Learned   .1....**. . . .   9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9  11
I.   Borrower's Performance  ....................  14
J.  Project Relationships   .... .      .  .  .  .    ..................    .   14
R.  Consulting Services   . .*.   *   * 0 0 *    * * e 0 ...   * * * * * * *  14
L.   Project Documentation and Data  ............... .   14
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM TEE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .  17
A.  Comments on Parts I and II   .................                    17
B.   IDA Performance   9 o * * * * *    * * *  9 9 9 9        9       17
C.   Borrower Performance  ..........          ............           17
D.   IDA - Borroer Relationship   .        ................    18
S.   Relationship with Co-financiers   .... ... .. . .. ...   19
F.  Relationship with other Relevant Parties . .  .     .  .  .  . . . . . . 19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PARTIZI.  STAXISTICAL. WO1'MTIO   ............ ...... .   21
1. Related Credtts  .*. . . . . . . . . . . .  . .*.  . . . .  . . . .  21
2. Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
3. Credit Disbursements    . .. . . . .. . . .  . .  . .  . ... .    24
4. Project Implementation: Indicators   . .  .    . . . . . . . . . . .  25
5. Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
A. Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . ..    25
B. Project Financing   .. . .. .  .  .  .9..   ........   26
C. K8F Program--Sources of Funding   . . . ..........   27
6. Project Results   . . . . . . . .                               28
A. Direct Benefits  ...................  28
B.  Studies    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
C. Sub-projects Approved by Type of Requesating Agency   . . . .  31
7. Status of Covenants   . ..   . . . .  .   * *    .. .* . .  .    32
8. Use of IDA Resources   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  . . .            32
A. Staff Inputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .32
B. Use of IDA Resources: Missions    4 . .     .   . . . . . .   33
BIBLIOGRAPHY    .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  *   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  35



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND EMEROENCY S0CIAL FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 1882-BO)
MRPACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Emergency
Social Fund Project in Bolivia, for which Credit 1882-BO in the amount of
SDR 19.0 million (US$27 million equivalent) wa approved on March 1, 1988.
The Credit was closed on October 31, 1991, eleven months beyond the original
schedule. The last disbursement was made on April 19, 1991, and a final
undisbursed balance of SDR 89,792.38 waa canceled effective October 31, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and 2-man Resources Division of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II, with significant
contributions to Part III). The PCR was sent for comment to co-financiers; no
substantive comments were received.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Association's final
Supervision mission of the project in May 1991, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit Agreement; supervision
reports; mid-project review; correspondence between the Association and the
Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii. -
PROJECT COFFETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUMD PROJECT
(CREDIT 1882-BO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objegtives
1.      The goal of the Emergency Social Fund (ESP) was to help alleviate the
social costs of economic crisis an4 adjustment by providing short-term
temporary employment to the groups most adversely affected, and by bolstering
bas4.c social services, which had deteriorated during five years of economic
crisis. ISP was designed as a quick and effective mechanism for financing
small-scale, employment- and income-generating sub-projects designed and
carried out by a variety of entities. Credit 1882-BO was the second credit
approved to support the program.
Imnlementation- Eerience
2.      The implementation of Credit 1882-BO complied with the Credit
Agreement in its fundamental aspects, with the largest variance between actual
and planned implementation relating to the disbursement schedule. Given the
emergency nature of the program, procurement procedures were permitted to
depart from the standard guidelines established by the Association. While
unorthodox, the procedures applied were simple and efficient and proved to
vork satisfactorily.
3.      ESF vsa very successful in mobilizing international support from a
large number of bilateral donors and international agencies. Three donors
(Sweden, the Netherlands, and Switzerland) and the OPEC Fund provided
financing under co-financing arrangements with the World Bank. Several donors
began or resumed programs in Bolivia because 1SP was able to ensure speedy and
effective implementation.
Results
4.      Results of the program can be assessed by focusing on the following
areas: macroeconomic impact, employment and targeting, infrastructure, social
services, institutional impact, poverty alleviation, impact on women, and
environmental impact (par"s. 18-35). 1SF had a favorable impact on Bolivia's
macroeconomic Indicators, generating a positive capital Inflow of over U8$170
million during the life of the program, thus contributing to a reduction of
the current account deficit. Total 1SP investments substantially increased
public sector and gross domestic investment (Table, pars. 19). 1SF sub-
projects generated about 731,000 man-months of employment, surpassing the
original goal set for the program; this result corresponded to the expansion
of the program. While ex-miners, the original target group, represented
between 15S and 201 of those hired under 1SF-financed contracts, the majority
of workers employed under 1SF contracts were in fact needier than the



- iv -
originally intended beneficiaries. Workers under ESF-financed sub-projects
were generally less educated, poorer, and spent less on food per capita than
the average Bolivian. Relatively few women were employed under civil-works
sub-projects. In addition to the direct employment generated, some 818,000
man-months of work are estimated to have been generated owing to a multiplier
effect.
5.      ESF invested a total of US$167.2 million in social and economic
infrastructure sub-projects, consisting of water supply and sewerage, housing,
health posts, schools, toads, and urban improvement, which directly benefitted
about 1.7 million people. During execution of the program, ESF committed
about US$17.0 million in funding for social assistance sub-projects, which
benefitted nearly 230,000 people, mainly low-income women and children. These
sub-projects were mainly focused on food and nutrition, basic health services,
vocational training and support to education. Virtually all beneficiaries of
ESF sub-projects were poor. ESF was successful in addressing women's needs
through its social assistance sub-projects, which focused on the health and
nutrition of pregnant women, lactating mothers, and their infants. ESF helped
to enhance Government credibility and the role of many national and local
institutions, and had a positive impact on the Government's working
relationships with NGOs. The program had a favorable environmental impact by
supporting erosion control and sanitation sub-projects.
Sustainabilitv
6.      ESF was designed as a temporary institution, not to be sustained over
the medium term. As ESP neared its closing date, however, the Government
wished to sustain aspects of ESF, such as its ability to channel funds quickly
to small projects. It, therefore, established the Social Investment Fund with
the mandate to finance investments and sustainable service programs in health
and education. By building on the achievements of 3SF, the Social Investment
Fund's goal is to contribute to Bolivia's long-term growth through human
capital formation.
7.      ESP sought to assure sustainability of all sub-projects by requiring
evidence of availability of financing for operating costs prior to sub-project
approval. The results vary by sub-project type, location, and executing
agency. A survey of sub-projects in health and education carried out by ESF
in 1990 showed that about 80% of social assistance sub-projects and about 951
of social infrastructure sub-projects were operating after one to two years
beyond sub-project completion. Factors shown to be important to sub-project
sustainability, such as active beneficiary participation, sufficient
experience of the requesting agency, and prior identification of source of
financing for recurrent costs, have been incorporated into SIFs' criteria for
selection of sub-projects.



-Y v
Findints and Lessons Learned
8.      The ESP program experienced both successes and shortcomings, and its
successes entailed trade-offe.1 The main lessons learned and factors which
contributed to the sL=cess of the program can be summarized as followss
(a)     Intestrgion With Macroeconomic Proftrsm.  An essential part of ESF's
success was that it became a central tart of the Government's
economic policy and was designed to help alleviate problems stemming
from the economic crisis and adjustment.
(b)     Leadership. Political Backing and Operational Autonomy.  ESF had
strong leadership and unflagging governmental support at the highest
level, combined with a deliberate restraint from political
intervention in its daily operations.
(c)     IDA SuDervision.  The ESF demonstrated the need ,or, and benefits of,
assigning substantial supervision resources to projects of this type.
IDA contributed to the evolution of the program through its intensive
supervision work. Nevertheless, the burden of supervision was
several times the average.
(d)     Employment Generation vs. Poverty Alleviation.  The economic and
social impact of ESF sub-projects demonstrated that income transfers
to workers and their households can be effected through public works
programs, as a transitional emergency measure during adjustment.
However, the ESP did not substantially alleviate the unemployment
caused specifically by the adjustment program. Moreover the ESF did
not have a substantial impact in alleviating structural poverty,
which requires a more systematic approach than the demand-driven
framework used by ESF.
(e)     Speed vs. Efficiency of Resource Allocation.  There are trade-offs
between the speed of disbursement and size of portfolio on the one
hand, and the quality of sub-projects and most efficient allocation
of resources on the other. ESF sought a balance between the
conflicting objectives, but examples can be found of projects that
did not meet social return criteria and of works of inadequate
quality that slipped through its selection process an.. project
supervision controls.
(f)     Macroeconomic Impact.  Although the project was designed to address
the emergency, macroeconomic analysis demonstrated that it fostered
GDP growth in both the short run and the long run.
1/      A detailed discussion of the ESF's successes and shortcomings, focussed with a view to
providing helpful guidance for those considering applying a similar model in other
countries, is provided in "Easing the Poor through Economic Crisis and Adjustment: The
Story of Bolivia's Emergency Social Fund," edited by S. Jorgensen, M. Grosh, and M.
Schachter, World Bank, May 1991.



- vi - 
(g)     8peod vs. Poverty Tar;etina. Bf forts to reach the very poor require
more than geographic targeting, since there are wide variations of
income even within geographic jurisdictions. However, unless
sufficient information is readily available, achievement of greater
refinement in targeting resources to the poor vill require time--
which represents a significant trade-off in an emergency program.
While ISF generally benefited the poor, it did not, in most cases,
reach the poorest of the poor. In spite of constant pressure to
speed execution, however, it enhanced its ability to reach the poor
by assuring that the type and design o^ t-roject selected focused on
provision of basic services.  It also laid the groundwork for more
precise targeting under the Social Investment Fund.
(h)     Imoortance of Promotion.  Promotion was necessary in order to
disseminate information on the ESP, its goals and procedures. It was
also important in developing ESF's ability to deal promptly and
effectively with requesting agencies, and in building confidence
among these agencies in its intentions and capacity.
(i)     Imnortance of CooDeration.  Through the ESP project, cooperation
between the World Bank and NGOs has been enhanced, and relations have
improved between NGOs and the Governiment.
(j)     Coordination with National and Regional Plannina Processes.  ISF was
established in part to help address, on an interim basis, the lack of
planning and project execution capacity of national and regional
institutions weakened by the economic crisis of the early 1980s.
Nevertheless, ESF was not intended to undertake planning of
investments systematically, and its limited integration with national
and regional planning processes led to some cases of inefficient
investments.
(k)     Sustainabilitv of Sub-groiects.  M!iile ESP sought to verify
availability of financing for operating costs of sub-projects,
results varied considerably by project type, location, and executing
agency. Nevertheless, the results have provided valuable lessons
concerning key factors in assuring sustainability of sub-projects,
which are being employed by the SIF (pare. 37).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLTV
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
1CREDIT 1882-BO)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IBE BANS'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Prolect Identitl
Names Second Emergency Social Fund Project
Number: Credit 1882-BO
RVP Units LAC
Borrower: Republic of Bolivia
Executing Agency: Emergency Social Fund
Sector: Multiple
Amount: SDR 19.0 million
Approval Date: March 1, 1988
Signature: March 4, 1988
Effectiveness: July 13, 1988
Closing Date:     Originals November 30, 1990
Revised: March 31, 1991
Revised: October 31, 1991
B.   Backaround
1.      This report presents data corresponding to Credit 1882-BO, the Second
Emergency Social Fund Project (ESP II), which closed October 31, 1991.
However, since the Emergency Social Fund (ISP) closed operations on March 31,
1991, the report also provides information on the NSF program as a whole. The
findings reported in the earlier Project Completion Report and the Project
Performance Audit Report regarding Credit 1829-BO (Emergency Social Fund
Project) are found to still be substantially valid and have been incorporated
here.
2.      Economic Dacktround.  In 1985 the new democratically elected
Government of Bolivia faced a severe economic crisis. With inflation running
at 24,0002 a year, public revenues amounting to less than 12 of GDP, and
widespread scarcities, the Government acted decisively to implement its new
economic stabilization, adjustment and reactivation program. Within eight
weeks, inflation decreased to 102 per annum, and by 1988 the economic
stabilization program had achieved considerable success, halting the economic
decline of the preceding years. However, structural adjustment had not yet
taken place, and the situation was still criticals after years of decline,
GDP had finally begun to grow but still lagged behind population growth; real
per capita income was therefore still falling.
3.      The Social Costs of the Economic Crisis.  It is difficult to
distinguish the social costs of economic adjustment from the social
consequences of the economic crisis of 1980-1985. Key indicators of social
welfare, such as infant and maternal mortality, malnutrition, and incidence of
diarrhea had worsened during the period 1978-85 and began to recover



- 2 -
afterwards. Malnutrition was widespread, and the infant mortality rate, at 124
per 1,000 live births (and twice as high in some poor communities), was double
the average of the region. Miners and civil servants were severely hit by the
layoffs affecting over 25,000 jobs between 1985 and 1986 alone. Farmers in
the surrounding mining communities also suffered indirectly as local economies
declined in the mining areas.
4.      The Emertencv Social Funds  Origin and Background.  In this critical
economic and social context, the Government established the Emergency Social
Fund (ESP) in 1985 to bolster social iuvestments and services and generate
employment during the stabilization and adjustment period. In December 1986,
the Association accepted the lead role in helping to restructure ESP and
coordinate fund-raising efforts and undertook the preparation of the Emergency
Social Fund Project (ESF T) (Cr. 1829-BO), its first project designed to
alleviate the social costs of economic adjustment. This first credit, for a
total of SDR 7.8 million (about US$ 10.0 million at the exchange rate
prevailing at appraisal), was prepared, appraised and approved extremely
quickly: four months elapsed between the identification mission and Board
approval in June 1987. The credit was designed as a pilot operation and was
intended to finance about one fifth of the ESF's total expected program,
provide institutional support, and help the Government mobilize international
assistance.  Implementation was rapid and effective, prompting the Government
to expand its original target from US$ 50 million to US$ 140 million and
request additional support from IDA. Four supervision missions between July
and December 1987 judged that ESF's performance warranted the Association's
continued support. Consequently, ESF II was appraised in December 1987,
negotiated in January 1988, and approved on March 1, 1988.
C.   Project Ob4ectives and DescriDtion
5.      ESP was established as a temporary emergency program, with legal
autonomy and under the direct oversight of the President of the Republic. Its
goal was to provide short-term temporary employment to those groups most
adversely affected by the austerity measures, and to shore up basic social
services after years of erosion of Government spending in the social sectors.
ES! was designed as a quick and effective mechanism for financing small sub-
projects designed and carried out by a variety of entities. Eligible sub-
projects included small-scale, employment- and income-generating projects such
ass water supply, sewerage, health posts, schools, basic shelter, road
improvement, irrigation, and erosion control. Sub-projects also included
"social assistance" programs in health, nutrition and training. Overall, the
ESP expenditure plan called for allocation of 75Z of funding to support
employment- and income- generating sub-projects, and 252 to social assistance
sub-projects.
D.   Prolect Desian and Ornanization
6.      ESF's sub-projects were prepared, requested and carried out by local
governments, regional development corporations, government ministries, non-
governmental or£anizations (NGOs) and community groups. Sub-projects were
executed by commercial contractors or NGOs and supervised by a third party.



ESP appraised each sub-project based on sectoral and regional programming
priorities, a site inspection, strict cost specifications and estimated
economic and social benefits. Procurement regulations approved for the
project departed both from standard IDA procedures and Bolivian Government
procedures, allowing direct contracting for contracts under US$ 250,000, on
the basis of unit prices controlled by ESP and approved by IDA. Contracts of
more than US$ 250,000 were let on the basis of comparison of price quotations
from at least three qualified contractors.
7.      Project Administration.  ESF built its staffing levels gradually in
response to growth in the workload. At its peak, ESF had a total of 130
staff, including about 80 professional staff. On average, administrative
costs represented about 5.5S of ESF's financing of projects. The sub-project
appraisal department, based in La Paz, presented for approval as many as 30
sub-projects a week with aggregate value up to US$ 2 million, with a staff of
12 to 15 people. The majority of the technical staff were based in the eight
regional offices of the supervision department, which oversaw sub-project
implementation.
E. Prolect Imvlementation
8.      Variations in Project Imolementation.  The implementation of Credit
1882-BO complied with the Credit Agreement in its fundamental aspects. The
largest variances between actual implementation and the plan presented in the
President's Memorandum relate to the rate of disbursements and the closing
schedule. Credit 1882-BO (in contrast to the ESF program as a whole) had a
slower rate of disbursement than anticipated, for two main reasons. First, as
the anticipated co-financing became available, funds from other sources were
disbursed first, in accordance with agreed procedures. Second, more co-
financing than anticipated was mobilized, and with it the size of the program
increased. The additional co-financing was also disbursed before IDA funds,
further slowing IDA disbursements.
9.      At appraisal of ESP II, ESF and the Government set the target for
external funding for the program at US$ 140 million. Donor interest in the
program proved even stronger than expected, leading to a revision of the total
target to US$ 180.0 million. Ultimately, total funding approved for the
program reached US$ 237.6 million. As a result of the expansion of the
program, the closing date for ESP's operations was extended from December 31,
1989 to March 31, 1991, by which date total spending, excluding counterpart
contributions from requesting agencies administered by ESP, amounted to
US$ 198.1 million. The closing dates for Credit 1882-BO and for co-financing
grants and loans were extended to October 31, 1991, to permit coverage of
expenses related to the process of closing ESF's accounts, reconciling final
balances for each lender and donor, and completing the various audits, which
required more time than originally anticipated.
10.     ESP's administrative costs were higher than originally expected
(US$ 10.9 million compared with US$ 1.5 million).  This was mainly due to the
fact that as the program grew in scope and complexity, more resources (i.e.,
staff, equipment, vehicles and other logistical support) were needed for



troubleshooting, quality control, and promotion than had been anticipated. In
spite of the substantial increase, however, administrative costs still
represented only 5.5Z of ISP's total program.
11.     The average size of sub-projects (US$ 70,000) was smaller than
anticipated (US$ 1000,00). However, cost overruns ere minimal: they
averaged 32 of sub-project commitments. Most sub-projects were implemented at
costi any divergence between estimated and actual cost was more often due to
increases in physical volumes than to changes in unit costs. ISP calculated a
rate of sub-project delay compared with planned schedule as a measure of
smooth implementation. The average rate of sub-project execution delay
fluctuated over time, but declined as ESP refined its procedures.
12.     ESP demonstrated good management of its funds and, with the help of
its computerized management information system, vas well prepared to provide
feedback information to its multiple donors. The Association played an
important role as a facilitator of financing, as the major financiers -even
those not participating in direct co-financing arrangements with IDA- adopted
the Association's approval, procurement and other procedures.
13.     Co-financing.  ESP was very successful in mobilizing international
support. Three major donors, Sweden, the Netherlands, and Switzerland,
committed their funding unconditionally as co-financiers of the ISF with the
World Bank (Part III, Table 5.C.). By taking a flexible position, ESP was
able to accept and manage different types of assistance from donors, including
cash, convertible resources (e.g., food donations that ESF sold on
international markets), and non-convertible contributions in-kind (e.g.,
erosion-control materials, which were used in ESF sub-projects). Several
donors began or resumed programs in Bolivia because ESP was able to ensure
speedy and effective implementation and disbursement.
14.     Procurement.   Given the emergency nature of the program, and the
close monitoring and safeguards built in ISP's management of contracting
procedures based on the unit price system, procurement procedures were
permitted to depart from the standard guidelines established by the
Association. While unorthodox, the procurement practices approved for the
program were simple and efficient and proved to work satisfactorily.
Contracts over US$ 250,000 required local shopping, and contracts under
USS 250,000 were awarded on the basis of direct contracting, with a contractor
chosen by the project sponsor or requesting agency. At the core of PSF
procurement system was its unit-price costing scheme, which was developed as a
schedule of standard prices for the completion of different tasks in various
types of projects. On the basis of the standard cost determined as a function
of unit prices, plus an additional 151 for overhead and profit (a considerably
lower margin than that built into tenders submitted in competitive bidding in
Bolilvia), ESP fixed a non-negotiable price. This strict cost control and non-
negotiable pricing system offset the discretion allowed in selecting the
contractor. (A comparison of ISP prices with prices paid by the municipality
of La Paz for similar works contracted under competitive bidding found that
ESF's prices were between 201 and 301 lower.)



- 5 -
15.     Because of the extraordinary nature of these procurement practiceo,
the Association established close monitoring mechanisms and safeguards. A
cumulative limit of US$ 500,000 in contracts per contractor was imposed,
except in cases where the contractor had won these contracts through
competitive bidding under the local shopping procedures. The Association
required technical audits to verify that standard unit prices were
appropriate. Procurement reviews, which evaluated the functioning of this
unconvantional procurement system, were carried out on a quarterly basis.
They focused on: (i) general assessment of the process, (ii) contracts
suspended or canceled, (iii) delays in contract execution, (iv) changes in
contract amounts during execution, and (v) distribution of contracts among
contractors.
16.     A total of 3,271 contracts were financed by ESF.  Civil works and
equipment contracts were distributed among 1,285 private contractors; non-
infrastructure sub-projects were executed directly by requesting agencies.
The amount of ESF financing and the urgency to execute sub-projects stimulated
a demand for construction services that required the participation of a wide
variety of firms, including both those that had traditionally worked with
public sector contracts and a large number of informal construction firms,
some of which were created in response to ESP demand. Even though ESF
experienced some technical problems in the selection and performance of
contractors, the incidence of problem contractors was minimal, considering the
size of ESP's portfolio (only 5S of contracts were rescinded). ES!
procurement procedures allowed for adjustments to contract amount during
execution of the project. Sixty-five percent of ES! sub-projects experienced
adjustment to the original amount during execution. This high incidence in
adjustments had little to do with the standard unit-pricing system used by
ES?; rather it was generally due to weaknesses in the technical evaluation of
projects. The overall effect on the amount of the ESP portfolio was
negligible. ESF controlled the quality of works through a system of
performance bonds, fines, and monitoring. ESP managed this unorthodox
procurement system responsibly and efficiently.
17.     Pro4ect Risks. The risks identified at appraisal of ESP II and
during the execution of ESF I (Credit 1829-BO) relate to the trade-off between
providing rapid assistance and ensuring the most efficient allocation of
resources for the medium term. In order to reduce these risks, the
Association established close monitoring and supervision mechanisms. A
balance was achieved, but some degree of trade-off was still apparent in the
selection and quality of some sub-projects.
F.   Proiect Results
18.     Monitoring and evaluation of the two IDA credits and of ESP as a
whole were extensive. Conclusions drawn from these evaluations are summarized
in this section.
19.     Imoact on the Adiustment Process: Macroeconomic Impact.  The
economic adjustment program was successful in stabilizing the economy and
reducin8 internal and external imbalances. Within this context, the economic



- 6 -
effects of ES! can be measured by its impact on GDP growth, foreign reserves
and employment. ESF secured a total of US$ 212.2 million in external
resources during its 4h-year existence, of which US$ 173.1 was disbursed.
Many of the funds were in the form of grants and some probably would not have
been available to the country in the absence of ESF. Since imported materials
were limited to 10 of total sub-project cost, and were generally below that
figure, nearly all of this capital inflow resulted in a reduction of the
current account deficit. As indicated in the table below, in 1988 alone,
total inflows of foreign capital to ESP represented over twice the amount by
which the current account deficit declined from its 1987 level. ESF's
contribution to the external account was sustained throughout the life of the
program, although the current account again deteriorated in 1991, as ESF
phased out operations. Total ESP investments substantially contributed to
increases in gross domestic investment, especially in 1988. When compared
with public sector investment, ESP investment consistently increased its share
until the program closed in 1991.
Table: ES! Investment and Selected Macroeconomic Indicators (1987-1991)
(US$ millions)
____________________________  1 1987    1988      1989       1990       1991
Total Annual External
Disbursements to ES?          6.5       45.6       49.7       60.9         8.5
current Account Deficit      -508.7     -488.8     -393.0     -338.0  (p) -417.7
Change in Current Account
Deficit                        __       -19.9     -95.8      -55.0       +79.7
External Disbursements to
ESP as a 2 oL Change In
Current Account Deficit        _       229.1       51.8      110.7          __
Total ESP Investment            9.7       49.4       53.9      62.3         10.4
Public Sector Investment      268.9      357.3      361.0      341.1       418.8
Total ES! Snvestment as a I
of Public Sect.Investment     3.6       13.8       14.9       18.3         2.4
Gross Domestic Investment     476.9      534.2      507.5      510.3  (p)  650.2
(GDI)
GDP (market prices)          4,309.6    4,422.8    4,497.3    4,473.0  (p) 4,972.1
Rate of Growth of GDP
(market prices)               2.6        3.0       2.7        2.7          4.1
Sources: ESP; World Bank, CEN 1991.
20.     Employment and TarastinA.  ESF sub-projects generated a total of
731,000 man-months of employment.  This surpassed the original goal set for
the program of 420,000-600,000 man-months of employment generation and was a



-7-
result of the expansion of the program's funding. The employment effects of
3SF sub-projects were important, though they did not primarily reach ox-miners
or laid-off public sector employees as originally planned (ex-miners
represented between 151 and 201 of thobe hired under ESF-financed contracts).
Studies demonstrated that miners moved rapidly to other jobs because of their
higher skill levels, or were reluctant to take ESF jobs because of the lower
pay. (Newman, Jorgensen, Pradhan, 1991). While the vorkers were generally
outside the original target group, however, they were in fact generally
needier than the originally intended beneficiaries. Had they not had ESF-
sponsored employment, 771 of workers would have been among the poorest 401 of
the population. ESF employment raised expected income by 672 on average, and
even more for the poorer groups (Newman, et al, 1991).
21.     In addition to the direct employment generated, an indirect
employment impact is estimated at the equivalent of 1.12 times the direct
employment on the basis of a multiplier effect. Of the approximately 818,000
man-months of indirect employment calculated on this basis, approximately 441
was generated by consumption of final goods, 501 by consumption of
intermediate goods, and 61 by increased demand for capital goods.
22.     The employment impact of ESF varied slightly from the appraisal
assumptions, as follows: (i) workers on 3SF-sponsored sub-projects were paid
more (+131) than foreseen during appraisal; (ii) there were fewer workers
actually employed (-10Z), and the total wage bill was very close to the
budgeted amount; (iii) ESP salaries were lower than the national average for
unskilled labor (-131); (iv) 991 of workers were male; and (v) two thirds of
the employed (661) were the only income-generating members of their household.
23.     Infrastructure.  ESF invested a total of US$ 167.2 million in social
and economic infrastructure sub-projects, which benefitted a total of nearly
1.7 million direct beneficiaries. This infrastructure consisted of water
supply and sewerage, housing, health posts, schools, roads and urban
improvement. Nearly 1,700 sub-projects were developed in social
infrastructure, for a total of US$ 85.4 million, and about 1,200 sub-projects
were undertaken in economic infrastructure, for a total of US$ 81.8 million.
24.     Economic returns to ESF sub-projects were generally positive.  At
appraisal, the average internal rate of return for infrastructure sub-projects
was estimated at 221. Cost-benefit analysis of completed sub-projects
indicates that of twenty sub-projects evaluated, ten had benefits equal to
four times their costs, and out of the fifteen remaining, three had total
costs greater than their benefits, and two broke even (Herrick, 1989).
25.     Social Services.  Throughout its life, ESF committed a total of
US$ 17.0 million in funding for about 320 social assistance sub-projects,
comprising mainly food and nutrition, basic health services, vocational
training and support to education. Such projects benefitted nearly
230,000 people, mainly low-income women and children. The success and quality
of these sub-projects varied and were related to a number of somewhat
intangible factors, such as the demand for services, the quality of services,



- 8 -
the institutional capacity of the sponsoring agency, and the organizational
capacity amng beneficiary communities.
26.     The initially small demand for financing of social assistance sub-
projects prompted ESF to promote this activity through NOOs. Ultimately,
requests from national GOs, international PVOs, and religious organizations
accounted for over half of EST's social assistance sub-projects. This
highlights the importance of these organizations in the Bolivian inastitutional
setting. The increasing proportion of such projects in 1SF's portfolio toward
the end of the program illustrates that the ESP was able to build on that
presence and to gain those organizations' confidence. The Ministry of Health,
which was also responsible for a substantial proportion of the volume of funds
channeled to social assistance projecte, participated mainly through a limited
number of large vaccination and epidemic control sub-projects.  Over 2.6
million vaccinations were administered under these sub-projects.
27.     Institutional Impact.  ESP had a three-fold institutional impacts a
clear enhancement of Government credibility, a beneficial impact on the
development of national and local institution., and development and
improvement of working relationships with NGOs. First, with the establishment
of the ESP, the Government was able to demonstrate that, while undertaking
austerity measures to achieve economic stabilization, it had not forgotten
about the poorest sectors of the population. Although ESP was initially
received with some skepticiem, its responsiveness and results earned
widespread respect among the population. This improved the image of the
Government and helped to sustain the economic adjustment program.
28.     Secondly, local and national institutions benefitted from their
working relationship with ESP. ESP became a training ground for managers and
staff of local and national institutions and was able to transfer its know-how
and its system for project identification, appraisal and supervision to
numerous requesting agencies. These institutions, in turn, acquired
experience in sub-project preparation and management.
29.     ESP was able to develop positive working relationships with NGO8, in
spite of various obstacles, including initial lack of trust and lack of
collaborative arrangements between the Government and EGOs. Additionally,
many EGOs were ideologically opposed to the economic adjustment program, of
which ESP was an integral part. ES! was able to overcome these obstacles by
establishing transparent and efficient operative methods, developing an active
promotion strategy to dialogue with EGOs, and demonstrating its own political
neutrality and its commitment to the goals of its program. As a result, DGO-
sponsored projects ultimately represented 3QZ of the total number of sub-
projects approved by ESP, and NGOs became an important help in targeting the
poorest sectors of the population.
30.     Poverty Alleviation.  ESP's mandate called first for provision of
temporary employment to individuals displaced by the economic crisis and
second for delivery of basic services to the poor. ESF was effective with
respect to its employment-generating objectives workers employed under EST-
financed sub-projects were generally less educated, poorer, and spent less on



- 9 -
food per capita than the average Bolivian. A survey of urban projects
revealed that 43.1Z of such workers' households fell within the lowest three
deciles in per capita food consumption (measured during their employment under
ESF-financed contracts)g only 7.61 fell within the top three deciles.
31.     With respect to ESP's mandate to provide services to the poor,
surveys indicate that virtually all beneficiaries of ESP sub-projects were
poor. However, ESF was not equipped to distinguish among relative poverty
levels of generally poor potential beneficiary communities, nor to precisely
target the infrastructure and social services it provided to specific groups.
The limitations in targeting resources to the neediest groups were partly a
direct result of the demand-driven nature of 8SF. Typically, there is
positive correlation between the poorest communities and those with the
weakest institutions, least access to information, and fewest links to
communications systems, and a negative correlation between such communities
and Government or NGO presence in the area. This meant that institutional
intermediaries were not available for organizing projects in the poorest
areas. In the absence of an institution with which to work, even outreach
efforts by ESP staff could not succeed in generating projects in such
communities.
32.     The Government and ESF leadership believed that, in view of the
devastating effects of the economic crisis on the vast majority of the
population that lives in poverty even in prosperous times, and given the
nature of ESF sub-projects, the benefits would necessarily reach the general
target group, even if the majority of beneficiaries were not at the very
bottom of the income scale. They recognized that there was a trade-off
between greater precision in targeting on the one hand and achievement of
satisfactory speed of implementation and disbursements on the other, and they
considered that the severity of the crisis warranted the assignment of higher
priority to the latter goal. Nevertheless, ESF recognized early on the
limitations stemming from its demand-driven format of sub-project generation,
and evolved mechanisms to approximate a poverty-targeted approach. First, it
created a Promotion Department to stimulate demand in very poor areas and
provide assistance in preparing proposals. Second, a system was established
to set funding targits for Departments (states), taking into account factors
such as mortality rates, availability of urban social infrastructure,
conditions of rural life, and school attendance. However, in view of the wide
variations in income distribution within Departments, this was necessarily a
crude mechanism. Improved targeting of benefits required socio-economic
profiles of potential beneficiary communities, which were not available at the
time. During 1989, a working group in ESP began to compile a data base on
communities to address this problem and to develop a methodology to improve
poverty targeting. This methodology is now used by ESP's successor, the
Social Investment Fund.
33.     Imoact on Women.  3SF was most effective in providing benefits to
women through its social assistance projects. Projects which focused on the
health and nutrition needs of pregnant women, lactating mothers, and their
infants received high priority. These projects ranged from nutritional
surveillance programs and the operation of day-care centers, to the provision



- 10 -
of maternity services in hospitals. Additionally, a large percentage of the
participants in training programs financed by the project were women who
learned skills to improve the health of the household and/or generate income.
34.     ESP was less effective in generating direct employment for women
through its public works sub-projects. However, women were often indirect
beneficiaries of the income gains of male family members employed under ESF-
financed sub-projects. Even though developing credit programs for women was a
project priority, no suitable project was presented for funding.
35.     Environmental Impact.  In general, ESF sub-projects had a positive
environmental impact. The program supported erosion control sub-projects,
such as watershed management and reforestation. Sanitation sub-projects in
rural and pern-urban areas represented 15.2S of the total number of sub-
projects. These included latrines, septic systems, and extension of urban
sewerage systems. In general, these projects had a positive effect on the
environment, although the size limitation on ESF sub-projects did not permit
the financing of sewage treatment plants. No sub-project reviewed was found
to have a significant detrimental effect on the environment.
G. Proiect Sustainabilitv
36.     ESP was designed as a temporary institution, to help alleviate the
social costs of economic crisis and adjustment; as a program, it was not meant
to be sustainable. In order to build on the experience gained, however, the
Government of Bolivia has established the Social Investment Fund (SIP), which
is mandated to finance investments and sustainable service programs in health
and education. By building on the achievements of ESF, the SIP aims to
contribute to Bolivia's long-term growth through human capital formation.
37.     ESF sought to assure sustainability of all sub-projects by requiring
evidence of availability of financing for operating costs prior to sub-project
approval. The results vary by sub-project type, location, and executing
agency. A survey of sub-projects in health and education carried out by ESF
in 1990 showed that about $01 of social assistance sub-projects and about 952
of social infrastructure sub-projects were operating one to two years beyond
sub-project completion. The survey attempted to identify factors contributing
to continuation of sub-projects' operations. Sub-projects most likely to be
sustained weres (a) those in which the beneficiaries participated most
actively; (b) those undertaken by requesting agencies with previous experience
operating the corresponding type of sub-project; and (c) those undertaken by
requesting agencies with a stable source of financing for .,current costs
(particularly important for assistance sub-projects, such as nutrition sub-
projects). As a group, central Government agencies were most likely to have
sponsored sustained sub-projects; discontinued projects were most likely to
have been requested by Regional Development Corporations or grass-roots
organizations. Rural sub-projects were as likely to be sustained as those in
urban areas. Based on the ESP experience, the SIP, with its longer-term
perspective and tighter sectoral focus, seeks to improve upon the ESF with
respect to project sustainability by requiring that requesting agencies
provide evidence of their ability to maintain operation of the requested



- 11 -
project beyond the period of SIF assistance. Where appropriate and feasible,
plans to involve beneficiaries themselves in the maintenance of physical
infrastructure are encouraged. In particular, mechanisms are being developed
vith the help of technical assistance to facilitate the management of
maintenance and operation of water supply and basic sanitation infrastructure
by beneficiaries themselves.
R.   IDA's Performance
38.     The innovative design and emergency nature of the project required
specisl attention from IDA. Both IDA credits were appraised and approved by
the Association within an exceptionally short time (para. 4). While approving
unconventional procedures for ESF to facilitate response to the emergency, the
Association established close monitoring and supervision mechanisms,
particularly with respect to procurement, monitoring and evaluation of the
social impact, and the approval of sub-projects. For instance, IDA reserved
the right to review every project prior to approving disbursement for it. The
Association reviewed all projects costing more than US$ 50,000, and a
substantial sample of those under that amount. This kind of supervision
required more staff time than usual. In addition, more project impact
evaluation than the norm was programmed, and regular procurement reviews were
required. Supervision required an average of 29 staffweeks per year, reaching
a maximum of 48 staffweeks.
39.     The Association was successful in helping mobilize and supervise a
large volume of co-financing, a role that was aided by the interest and
support of the Consultative Group. IDA cooperated with more than a dozen
external financing agencies and acted as Administrator for four others. The
mediation between the variable demands of disbursements and the time required
to bring the funds of the co-financiers on line was particularly challenging
for the Association. Throughout the four years from approval of ESF I to the
closing of ESP II, IDA reassigned Task Managers four times. However, due to
extensive team work and adequate overlap, the project did not suffer any
serious discontinuity.
40.     Lessons Learned.  Projects similar to ESF are now being considered or
implemented in several other countries. The ESP program experienced both
successes and shortcomings, and its successes entailed trade-offs.11 The
main lessons learned and factors which contributed to the success of the
program can be summarized as follows:
(a)     Integration With Macroeconomic Proaram.  An essential part of ES!'s
success was that it became a central part of the Government's
economic policy and was designed to help alleviate problems stemming
2/   A detailed discussion of the ESP's successes and shortcomings, focussed with a view to
providing helpful guidance for those considering applying a siDilar model in other
countries, is provided in "Easing the Poor through Economic Crisis and Adjustment: The
Story of Bolivia's Emergency Social Fund," edited by S. Jorgensen, M. Grash, and M.
Sebachter, World Bank, May 1991.



- 12 -
from cute in special services that occurred during the years prior to
the adjustment program. The experience with ESF demonstrated that
special care is needed to identify potential social costs at the
beginning of adjustment programs so that actions can be designed to
address them specifically. Popular acceptance of ESP contributed to
the success and continuous adherence to the macroeconomic adjustment
program.
(b)     Leadershlg. PolItical Backina and Operational Autonomy.  There are
lessons to be learned from the leadership and institutional
arrangement of the ESP. ESF's first director was dynamic, ta'ented,
and surrounded himself with first-rate staff, who followed management
practices largely taken from the private sector. The management
practices, as well as the core staff and the "mystique" he
originated, were sustained even after his departure. Strong and
unflagging governmental support at the highest level, combined with a
deliberate restraint from polit4cal intervention in its daily
operations, provided the flexibility and support necessary to solve
problems as they arose, and was essential to the development of
efficient and transparent sub-projects and managing a large financial
and operational portfolio.
(c)     IDA Suuervision.  ESP demonstrated the need and benefits of assigning
substantial supervision resources to projects of this type. IDA
contributed to the evolution of the program through its supervision
work. Nevertheless, the burden of supervision on IDA staff was
several times the average.
(d)     Emnlovment Generation vs. Poverty Alleviation.  The economic and
social impact of ESF sub-projects demonstrated that income transfers
to workers and their households can be effected through public works
programs, as a transitional emergency measure during adjustment.
However, the ES? did not substantially alleviate the unemployment
caused specifically by the adjustment program. Moreover the ESP did
not have a substantial impact in alleviating structural poverty,
which requires a more systematic approach than the demand-driven
framework used by ESP.
(e)     Steed vs. Efficiency of Resource Allocation.  There are trade-offs
between the speed of disbursement and size of portfolio on the one
hand, and the quality of sub-projects and most efficient allocation
of resources on the other. Targeting, evaluation and supervision
procedures at ESF could have been improved, but improvement would
have come at the expense of a slower turnaround of project proposals,
higher overhead, and consequently fewer projects. ESP sought a
balance between the conflicting objectives. However, examples can be
found of projects that did not meet social return criteria and of
works of inadequate quality that slipped through its selection
process and project supervision controls.



- 13 -
(f)     Sneed vs. Poverty Targetinu.  Efforts to reach the very poor require
more than geogrsphic targeting, since there are wide variations of
income even within geographic jurisdictions. However, unless
sufficient information is readily available, achievement of greater
refinement in targeting resources to the poor will require time--
which represents a significant trade-off in an emergency program.
While ESP generally benefited the poor, it did not, in most cases,
reach the poorest of the poor. In spite of constant pressure to
speed execution, however, it enihanced its ability to reach the poor
by assuring that the type and design of project selected focused on
provision of basic services. It also laid the groundwork for more
precise targeting under the Social Investment Fund.
(g)     Macroeconomic Imnact.  Although the project was designed to address
the emergency, macroeconomic analysis demonstrated that it fostered
GDP growth in both the short run and the long run. The short-run
boost to demand, the investment value of infrastructure created, and
the extent to which the ESP helped mobilize incremental international
financial support were major contributing factors to this outcome.
(h)     Imnortance of Promotion.  Through its promotion unit, ESF undertook
special efforts in project outreach, which were necessary in order to
disseminate information on the ESF, its goals and procedures. This
was also important in order tc build confidence in its ability to
deal promptly and effectively with requesting agencies.
Mi)     Value of CooDeration with NGOs.  Through the ESF project, cooperation
between the World Bank and NGOs has been enhanced, and relations have
improved between NGOs and the Government. Although NGOs were
initially hesitant to work with a Government institution, they came
to view ESF as a reliable source of funding. From ESF's perspective,
NGOs proved to be very competent in preparing and supervising
projects, particularly those in social assistance.
(j)     Coordination with National and Reaional Planning Processes.  ESF was
established in part to help address, on an interim basis, the lack of
planning and project execution capacity of national and regional
institutions weakened by the economic crisis of the early 1980s.
Nevertheless, ESP was not intended to undertake planning of
investments systematically, and its limited integration with national
and regional planning processes led to some cases of inefficient
investments.
(k)     Sustainabilitv of Sub-proiects.  While ESF sought to verify
availability of financing for operating costs of sub-projects,
results varied considerably by project type, location, and executing
agency. Nevertheless, the results have provided valuable lessons
concerning key factors in assuring sustainability of sub-projects,
which are being employed by the SIP.



- 14 -
I.   Borrower's Performance
41.         ESF earned respect from IDA, co-financiers and within Bolivia as a
successful and efficient institution. With high-caliber staff in a spirit of
self-evaluation and commitment to make the program successful, ESF
demonstrated a capability to identify problems and take corrective action.
For instance, a fundraising unit was created to help achieve funding targets,
and a promotion unit was established to correct a slow project identification
rate. ESP also hired specialized personnel to complete technical audits of
projects and establish and verify adherence to quality standards. One of the
most challenging difficulties faced by the project was the rate of delay in
sub-project execution. ESP undertook measures to decrease these delays, which
included fining contractors and suspending disbursements to sub-projects
experiencing undue delays. As a result, the average delay (measured by the
amount of time by which the project exceeded the original schedule in
implementation) decreased from a high of 81Z in July 1988 to 401 in December
of the same year. As ESF learned from experience, implementation schedules
began to reflect the patterns that could be considered "normal" for each type
of sub-project, and average delays were reduced still further.
J. Proiect Relationships
42.         Throughout the project, the working relationship between the
Government of Bolivia and the Association was positive and constructive. IDA
worked very closely with ESF and encouraged 3SF in turn to work more with NGOs
to increase their participation in the project. These efforts on ESF's part
were recognized and appreciated by NGOs in Bolivia. The relationship between
the Association and ESF was close and constructive. Flexibility,
responsiveness and commitment were key factors on all sides.
K. Consultina Services
43.         Credits 1829-BO and 1882-BO included US$ 108,670 and
US$ 1.1 million respectively for consulting services, fixed-term staff,
studies, travel costs and office equipment. Additional resources were
employed to hire temporary consultants to deal with specific subjects, such as
developing the cost/benefit data base and procedures for calculating rates of
return; standardizing the criteria and procedures for social assistance sub-
projects; developing a monitoring system for these sub-projects; and
evaluating the impact of the project. At the closing of ESF, total expenses
from all sources on consulting services amounted to approximately US$ 204,000.
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
44.         The Staff Appraisal Report was essential in providing
implementation guidelines for the project. The Development Credit Agreement,
as amended, was instrumental in defining responsibilities. Each co-financing
agreement differed in form and substance. As the costs to IDA of coordination
of co-financing and supervision of the program were substantial, provision for
reimbursement to IDA of costs incurred for administration of co-financed funds
were clearly established in the grant administration agreements. It was also



- 15 -
important that provision for a Special Account was included in each agreement,
in order to facilitate the disbursement process.
45.         ESP developed a computerized management information system, which
greatly facilitated data management and reporting; it developed its own manual
and guidelines for sub-project appraisal. The project accounts were reviewed
by the Association from time to time and found to be in order.
46.         The data for use in the PCR were readily available thanks to both
the efficient data management system at ESP and the comprehensive project
monitoring and evaluations undertaken throughout ESF's operating life.



- 17 -
PROJECT CC"REIA=  A&P0=
BOLIVIA
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 1882-BO)
PART II.  PR0JECT REVIEW nRom THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Coments on Parts I and III
47.     ESP fully endorses the analysis and data presented in Parts I and
III.
B. IDA Performance
48.     IDA's approval of the project under exceptional emergency procedures
was decisive in the ultimate performance of ESF. The Association demonstrated
flexibility in accepting not only the concept of an Ss?, but also project
implementation procedures which departed from normal procedures. IDA
continued to place more importance on the substance and impact of the project
than oh its form throughout the course of the project.
49.     IDA dedicated supervision resources to review sub-projects presented
for its approval. The importance it placed on efficient allocation of
resources provided a beneficial balance to ES?'s emphasis on the rapid
disbursement of funds.
50.    IDA's influence and support facilitated ESP's large fund-raising
efforts. The role of IDA in this aspect cannot be overestimated.
C. Borrower Performance
51.     The Government of Bolivia assigned a high priority to ESP, which
allowed ESP freedom to develop its programs in an independent and politically
neutral way. This autonomy was critical to ensure ESP"s performance.
52.     ESP developod an effective relationship with donor organizations.
The capacity to formulate a coherent project, and the clear link between the
project and the macro-economic and social strategies of the country, were
Important in attracting funding. As the sub-project pipeline grew, ESP
maintained a policy of transparency in its management of funds which
reinforced the confidence of donor agencies and facilitated the evaluation and
approval of sub-projects and the disbursement of funds. It also removed
bureaucratic obstacles. In particular, ES? earned managerial and technical
credibility which fostered a relationship of partnership with IDA.
53.     ESP met its targets for emergency employment creation and social
assistance. The project design also proved that effective modifications in
the management procedures that were made to optimize resource allocation, had



- 18 -
an immediate income effect on the beneficiaries, and achieved longer-term
social and economic bonefits. ESP was well designed and aided by excellent
management based on rapid decision making, with minimal bureaucracy. Within
each department, training of personnel was continual, resulting in
improvements in staff performance that allowed a steady personnel increase in
EST's productivity. Beginning with a small team, ESF added staff as the
number of projects to be evaluated and executed grew.
54.     The target population of ESP was defined pragmatically, including
low-income households and those which experienced a loss of income as a direct
result of the underline adjustment process. ESF was criticized for selecting
beneficiaries in an st hoc fashion. This was a result of the practical
impossibility of identifying pockets of poverty given the dearth of data. The
gap between needs and resources also required simple selection procedures.
While ESP reached poor populations, it rarely reached the most disadvantaged.
However, the additional cost of being wore selective as to the profile of its
beneficiaries did not appear justified in an operation that was short-term in
character and massive in scope.
55.     The ability of each Department within ESF to create procedures which
were simple, flexible and effective was largely responsible for the domestic
and external credibility enjoyed by ESP. The promotion department was able to
attract a constant flow of sub-projects due to an aggressive approach in
marketing ESP to potential requesting agencies, aided by a team of
professionals who gave technical assistance in sub-project preparation. The
evaluation department developed a computerized system of evaluating costs and
put into place mechanisms for approving sub-projects which were acceptable to
ESF financiers. The administration department defined procedures with
intermediaries, such as the Central Baik, in order to facilitate the flow of
funds. The Supervision and Control Departments worked through eight regional
offices, assuring ES? presence and continuous monitoring for each of its sub-
projects.
56.     The EST procedures were made effective through the dedication of its
staff. The emphasis pl *ed on people as the pivotal point in the organization
has been one of the moct positive aspects of the ES?. However, this emphasis
made the ES? vulnerable to changes in personnel. It also meant that, when the
decision was made to establish the SIP as a longer-term institution built on
ES?'. experience, much work was required to institutionalize that experience.
57.     Finally, in its careful management of some US$ 200 million disbursed
during its existence, ESF showed itself to be an efficient manager of
resources.
D. IDA - Borrower Relationshlo
58.     The relationship between IDA and ES? was frank and open.  Meetings
between TIDA staff and ES? staff were held in a spirit of self-evaluation,
which had positive results for the project implementation. The Association
stimulated the adoption of administrative and information systems which were
transparent, which in turn facilitated a positive working relationship with



- 19 -
IDA and with the co-financiers. The Association's receptivity, as well as ESF
personnel's initiative, created a good environment for decision-making in
project matters.
S. Relationship with Co-financiers
59.     Each category of financing received by ESP (cash, convertible in-kind
contributions, and ron-convertible in-kind contributions; sse also Part III,
Table 5 C.) carried different administrative requirements. All required
careful accounting of the application of resources. In addition, the
responsibility of selling convertible in-kind resources and arranging the
logistics of distribution of non-convertible in-kind resources fell to ESP.
E8F's ability to manage these diverse responsibilities effectively was one of
its strengths.
60.     ESF kept co-f4nanciers (and its other donors and lenders) informed
through regular reports on the use of funds. In addition, field visits to ESP
sub-projects were an Important way of showing donor/lender representatives the
type of projects being financed and how ESF worked. These direct contacts,
together with donor coordination meetings in La Paz and IDA's overall
supervision of ESF operations, were key to enabling ESP to develop and
maintain a good working relationship with all its co-financiers. This
transparent and flexible relationship was fundamental for ESF's success in
obtaining the necessary resources for the program.
P. Relationshin with other Relevant Parties
61.     ESF had close relationships withs  (i) government agencies involved
in the raising and disbursing of funds; and (ii) requesting agencies. ESF
worked in close collaboration with the Ministries of Finance and Planning and
the Central Bank in its fund-raising efforts, in securing the approval of
Congress, and in disbursement procedures. Considering the Bolivian
bureaucracy, the relation with these institutions was excellent, although
interactions with the Ministries of Planning and Finance relied mostly on
personal contacts at the level of senior management. While the effectiveness
of ESP did not suffer, a tighter coordination with these two ministries would
have been desirable. ESF promoted operating procedures with the Central Bank
which expedited disbursements. The Central Bank assisted ESF by providing
bridge financing, or "fiscal credit", which solved ESP's occasional cash flow
problems.
62.      ESP'os work with NGOs should be considered a benchmark in the history
of relations between the Bolivian Government and NGOs and marked the first
time the Government channelled resources directly to NGOo. While relations
were difficult at the outset, owing to the negative prior experience NGOs had
had with government control and regulations, confidence was built gradually
and steadily. Ultimately, ESF managed to channel more than 152 of its
financing to NOOs.
63.     Government ministries responded unevenly to th  ESF; some took
advantage of the financing opportunities very early, while others, due to



- 20 -
skepticism, inertia, or lack of teebical expertise to formulate projects,
came to ESP only later on. In general, the ESF demanded an accelerated work
pace and better administrative procedures from soliciting agencies then most
were accustomed to. The effect on government institutions W88 particularly
beneficial in the case of the National Road Service (SNC), the Ministry of
Urban Affairs (MAU), and the National School Building Council (CONES). The
ESP not only made possibl, the execution of sub-projects, but was able to
initiate new program. which these institutions Initially did not consider
viable, such as labor-intensive road maintenance, and low-cost housing and
schools. These programs represent an important transfer of SF8's experience
to government institutions.



- 21 -
PRO)JECT CgMll= REPORtT
SECOND                 SOCIAL  UIUD PROJECT
(CREDIT 18-3O)
PART III. STATISTICAL IUWOATION
L       dtsd Credits
Comm                                                  Year of
Emegmy Social         Suppoet do Oowsue              1987          Compleed Aum           Vim CdIwk
Fund Pojet            EMnega   Prpm                                 1989.                 apprved by MDA
(Cr. 189O)            tugh gbu  to                                                        for ESP; fit for
Samerm     Social Fund                                            a projec
(SW  for eub.pojc                                                   4.aigp  to
fundin in ftagetd                                                   addr  do social
"aspmt of
Socil _vasAvt poety                                  1990           Undw                  Th resas of
Ftod Pjaect          - iw prvanet of halt                                                 nny s        on
(Cr. 2127430)         and educaion *evice wit                                             t  ESP
mad patcpox      n by                                                         hv
caauuuities, NGOs, and                                              bern    -
prvae sor.                                                          i the dasigof
X SIP pwct



- 22 -
2.
Prceing                      Date               Date               Date
Planned           Revised             Actual
1.  tification(EPS)             04/30187          07/3087             09/37
2 Preparation                                                         W13/7
3. Pre-appraisal                09/15/87                              10/21X7
4. Appraisal                    12/09/                                12/10/87
5. Credit Negotiations          02/15/88           17/87              01/25/88
6. Board Approval               04/15/88          01115/88            03/01/88
7. Credit Signature             03/03/88                              03/0488
& Credit Effectiveness          04101/88                              07/13/88
9. Credit Closing               1a1090            10/31/              10A191
10. Credit Completion           05/3190                               03/31/91
GRAPH I
CR-: 1882-80 PROCESSING SCHEDULE
plocESsING STEPS
10
9   -, 4  .... 
8 -.
7           v---  /
e -
4 -
2 -
0
1 87   1   88    1   89    1   90    i11
PLANNED TIME        I REVISED TIME
ACTUAL TIME



-23 -
Comments:
1.        In June 1987 MDA approved a SDR 7.8 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) credit to
support the Emergency Social Fund's first year of implementation with the intention of a larger
follow-up credit, contingent on good progress with the Emergency Social Fund. The ESF agency met
the Government's objectives, and implementation was in accordance with agreements during appraisal
of Cr. 1829-BO. By the ena of November 1987, ESP had committed $24.7 million and disbursed
US$5.5 million. Contnbutions from outside donors (Germany, Spain, United Kingdom, USAID, IlB
and UNDP) were mobilized with others expressing interest.
2.        The major issues discussed at the IEPS meeting for the ESF II project focused on:
(a) ensuring an orderly transition of ESFs activities to the appropriate health and education
ministries upon the termination of the ESF entity, (b) a method of targeting the demand-driven
program toward low-income populations; and (c) evaluating the impact of social sector subprojects to
maintain correct targeting. As part of the preparation, a mission assessed poverty in Bolivia and
social statistics (health, nutrition, employment, education, housing) were collected. Limitations on
data collection were identified, and suggested improvements were recommended that would be useful
for policy formulation in providing social services. The pre-appraisal mission took up the issues raised
at the IEPS meeting, along with medium- and long-term strategies for project sustainability and
increased NGO involvement in the social sectors. Sub-project selection criteria and procurement
procedures, among other issues, were clarified during appraisal. Methods for integrating the
monitoring of beneficiaries were discussed. Contacts with potential donors continued during project
processing through the Consultative Group meeting in April 1988.
3.        Processing time from ESF HI Identification until Board approval was compressed into
seven months through drawing on the close supervision of the then-ongoing ESF I Credit. The tight
schedule was necessary so that the Bolivian Congress could ratify the Credit Agreement at its March
1988 session. The Congress would not meet again until September 1988, and any delays in the Board
date beyond the beginning of March 1988 would delay effectiveness by at least fie months. The
Board Approval date was pushed up from April 1988 to January 1988 to accommodate the
Government's schedule. However, the date was slipped one month to permit full commitment of
ESF I before Board presentation; this was accomplished.
4.        Project Effectiveness was delayed three months, pending the completion of the
Subsidiary Agreement between ESF and the Ministry of Fnance and legal opinions and the
submission of an updated appraisal manual for ESF. The closing date was extended to: (a) allow the
greater-than-expected additional external financing to be utilized as fully as possible; and (b) allow
sufficient time for the reconciliation of the final balances for each lender and donor at closing.



- 24 _
3A: Ckedit D10barsemeots
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbusements
(USS million)
IDA FY                  F8           F9          FY90   FY91
Appraisal Estimates            5.0          21.0         27.0
Rev. Estimates (10/89)                      20.6         27.0
Rev. Estimates (6/90)                       21A          22.1         24.8
Rev. Estimates (4/91)                      2L4           22.1         25.1
Actual Disb. 1/                             21A          22.1         25.0
/ As of October 31, 1991 the undisbursed balance of SDR 89,79238 (US$125,618.64 was
canceled).
GRAPH 2
Time Line of Planned, Revied and Aotual
Dieburement SohefdUI
0. use wjn..
60                              ..
26 ------* *-
20                -.
10 
FY88           FY60            FY00           FY01
-~Appr. Eat.   +  Ru. (10/80) -,T  Ruv. (woo0)
--Rev. (4/01)   4-Aotual diab



- 25 -
4. Project Implementation: Indicators
Number    Amount    Amount
of      (USS M)  as % of Total
Prolects               (Value)
Sub-prolect Requests Received by ESF                   7268        620.1
Sub-projects Executed. by type of Program
Social Assistance                                  317         17.0        8.9
Social Infrastructure                              1695        85.4       44.7
Economic Infrastructure                            1196        81.8       42.9
Productive Programs                                 63          6.7        3.5
Totals a/     3271       190.8      100.0
Sub-projects Executed. by Status on Completion of ESF Proeram b/
Completed                                         3219        188.0      98.5
Transferred to other institutions c/                52          2.8        1.5
Totals a/    3,271       190.8      100.0
Total Expenditures by ESF
Sub-Projects                                                  190.8      94.6
Administration                                                 10.9        5.4
4                  Total Expenditures by ESF                 2110
a/ Totals may not add due to rounding.
b/ Values reflect actual disbursements by ESF, but exclude contributions in kind by beneficiaries.
c/ Indicates expenditures on projects that werc not completed by March 31, 1991, after which
responsibility for completion was returned to the requesting agency.
S. Project Costs and Financing
5. A. Projcct Costs
- ESF II PROJECT a/             I TotalESFPro
Appraisal Estimate   I      Actual        Appr. Est. Actual
1TMm                  Local |Foreign c/i Total I Local IForeign c/| Total   Total I Total
(US$ millions)
Sub-Projects b/
Social Assistance        5.0     0.5   5.5   5.8        0.6   6.3               17.0
Social Infrastructure   17.9      2.0  19.9  35.0       3.5  38.5               85.4
EconomicInfrastructure    22.4    2.5  24.9  23.1       2.3  25.5               81.8
Productive Support      4.5      0.5   5.0   2.0        0.2   2.2                6.7
Total, Sub-projects dl   49.8     5.5  55.3  65.9        6.6  72.5    140.0    190.8
Administration            1.1      0.3   1.4   5.        0.5   5.6       15      10.9
TOTAL dl   50.9        5.8  56.7  71.0        7.1  78.1    141-      201.
Notes:
a/ Defined as the portion of the ESF program financed by IDA and Co-financiers (Netherlands, Swede3
Switzerland and OPEC Fund), plus corresponding Government counterpart (See Table 5. B.).
b/ Amounts shown include beneficiary counterpart administered by ESF.
cl For sub-projects, defined as 10% of total sub-project cost.
d/ Sums may not add due to rounding.



- 26 -
S. B. Project Finascing ag
Planned                Revised                 Final
(Credit A  eement)
Sb %f   %  ot           % or    of             *ot I * of
Source of Financing                 (USS Mfl) Credit Projeat (UsSMn)l CqditI Project (USSMn} Ceedit PcoJct
IDA (Credit 1882-BO) bl
1. Social Assistantance Sub-projects     2.2    8.6    3.8     2.2    8.6    2.S    2.2       8.7    2.8
2. Social Infrastructure Sub-projects    7.7   30.8   13.6    10.0   39.7   11.4   11.4    45.4   14.5
3. Economic Infrastructure Sub-projects  9.7   38.5   17.0      9.0   35.8   10.3    8.6    34.3   10.9
4. Production Activity Sub-projects      1.9    7.7    3.4      1.S    6.1    1.8    1.0      4.1    1.3
S. Institutional Support                 1.1    4.5    2.0      2.4    9.7    2.8    1.9      7.S    2.4
6. Unallocated                           2S    10.     4.4      _0     0.0   0t0              00      .
Sub-total, IDA inancing c/    2S.1  100.0   44.3    2S.1  100.0   28.7   2S.0   100.0   31.9
Co-Finanginr Institutions
Netherlands bf, d/                                             19.4          22.2   16.S g/         21.1
Sweden bI, e/                                                   7.9           9.1    3.9 g/          4.9
Switzerland Wl, fl                                             18.2          20.8   15.0 g/         19.2
OPEC Fund                                  3:7    3.0                                                3.8
Sub-total, Co-financing related to Cr. 1882-BO                48.7          5S.8   38.4            49.0
Other External Sources                  22.1          39.0      0.0           0.0    0.0.            0.0
Domestic                                 9 S          16.8    13.5           15.5   15.             19.1
Total Flnanclng, ESF 1 Project         LQ 7     8        .   MAMAI
Notes:
ai Total IDA financing was SDR 19 million, equivalent to USS 27.0 million at Board approval and to USS 25.1 million at
the weighted average exchange rate (USS 1.32: SDR 1.0). The undisbursed balance of SDR 89,792
(USS118,52S equivalent) was cancelled as of closing date of the credit.
b/ Exchange rates used arc weighted averages of the effective rates applicable during the disbursement
SDR        --USS 1.32: SDR 1.0
Netherlands - Dfl. 1.93: USS 1.0
Sweden    -- SKr. 6.145: USS1.0
Switzerland  -- SwF. 1.65: USS1.0
c/ Sums may not add due to rounding.
d/ Provided in three contributions equivalent to about USS6.S million, USS 7.8 million, and USS 5.2 million.
respectively.
el Provided in two contributions of about USS 4.0 million equivalent cach.
a Provided in two contributions of about USS 9.1 million equivalent each.
g/ When all of the external funds were identified in early 1990, it became clear that the total amounts could not be
fully disbursed before the program's closing date (March 31, 1991). Several donors approved the transfer of funds
to the Social Investment Fund: Netherlands: USS1.8 million, Sweden: USS 4.0 million, Switzerland:
USS9.9 million.



- 27 -
S. C. ESF Program: Sources of Funding
Total Contribution Approved    |Dbuned
_  _ __  _   US Dollar  USDdlar
SOURCE/Type ofContributlon               Currenc  Amunt Exchange Equivalent  Equivalent
4 milliond  Rate a/ It(mIllions)   (millions
CASH RESOURCES
DOMESTIC
National Treasury                         Ba         50.8       2.3       21.9     22.0
Other Government Transfers               USS          3.5       1.0        35       Ii
TOTAL DOMESTIC RESOURCES                                                   2S.4      25.0
INTERNATIONAL
IDA 1 1829                                SDR bI        7.8      1.3       10.2      10.2
IDA 2. 1882                               SDR WI       19.0      1.3       25.1      25.0
IDA (Export Corr.)                        SDR bi                 13 i.3               3
Total IDA              29.5                38.9     38.5
Sweden                                    SKr          SO.8      6.4        7.9       3.9
Switzerland  ESF I                        Swp          15.0      1.5       10.2      10.2
Switzerland . ESF 11                      Sw F         30        1.7       18.2     tS 
Total Switzerland            45.0                28.4      25.2
Netherands                                DFI          37.5      1.9       19.4      16.5
OPEC Fund                                 USS           3.2      1.0        3.2       3.0
Inter-American Development Bank (Credit)    USS         4;0      1.0        4.0       4.0
later-American Development Bank (FOE)     USS          34.7      1.0       347 1     3 
Total IDB             38.7                 38.7     37.8
Germany                                    DM          30.0      1,7       17.6      15.0
Belgium                                    OF         185.0     38.1        4.9       3.6
UNDP                                      USS           13       1.0        1.3       1.2
USAID                                     USS           6.0      1.0        6.0       4.5
Japan                                     Yen         501.8    137.0        3        317
TOTAL INTERNATIONAL CASH RESOURCES cW                                     19.9    1129
TOTAL CASH RESOURCES cI                                                     195.3    177.9
CONVERTIBLE IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS d/
Canada                                    CanS         14.3       12       12.3      6.5
United Kingdom (Bal of Payt.)                  bl       5.0      1.7        8.7      1.3
Netherlands                               USS           4.2      1.9        4.2       0.4
Switzeriand -(al. of Payts.)              SwF          10.0      1.7        6.1       1.6
USAID                                     USS           2.5      1.0        25
LOTAL CONVERTIBLE IN-KIND COtNTRIBUTIONS c/                                  33.8     11.8
IN-KIND CONT1RL1TIONS                                                           I
L  ITALY                                  USS           5.4      1.0        5A        5A
USAID (Structural Adjustment)             USS           32       1.0        3l        3
kTAL IN-KIND C;ONTRIUTI2ON1   ci c/                                          8.6      8.4
TOTAL FUNDIN-                                                                       -
Total Domestic Resources                                                     25.4      25.0
rot8a International Resources 
ITOTAL FUNDING. 5SP PROGRAM  cl
a/ Exchange rates are weighted averages of actual rates applied in the course of disbursements.
bl Multiply for US dollar equivalent.
c/ Sums may not add due to rounding.
dl This category includes several typs ontcontributions of varyiag liquidity. As specific restrictions led to
slow disbursements ia several cases, sveal donors (Canada, United Kingdom, Netherlands, and
Switzerand) approved transfer of unused balances to the Social Investment Fund.
c/ Includes a contribution from Save the Children valued at about USS12,000.



6. Project Results
6. A Direct Benefits
Prrects Completed     Direct     Employment
Number  Amount   Betefiidaries    Generated
CATEGORY                                Of                 (Thousands  (Thousands of                                         Number
Prolects  (USS MI   of personsl    Man/Mos.l                Type of Benefit           of Units
Social Asshtsmce Sub-Projects
Nutrition                                118        6.1           -             -      Breaklast and meals                     20,130
Health Care                               36        2.4           *                    lanocwlations                         2,600,000
Training and Education Support           139        6.8                                 Dess                                   117,430
Texts                                1,340,000
Trainees                               127,333
Institutional Support                               1.7
Sub-Total     317       17.0          229.7          30.4
ocial Isfrastructure
Drinking Water and Sewerage Systems      351       26.6           -             -      Linear meters of sewerage systems     1,010332
Linear meters of water systems        318.935
Housing                                  145       19.4           -             -      Houses constructed                       9,974
Health center consiruction               144        6.4           -             -      Health poss constructed or repaired        417
Scho  construction                       519       18.5           -             -      Schools and classrooms                   2,001              0
Cultural Pr)ects                          44        1.7                                 Cultural projects                         375
Other                                    492       12.8
Sub-Total    1695       85.4        1,133.8         298.4
Economic lIfrastrcutre
Urban Improvement                        360       23.5           -             *      Streets paved (city blocks)              5,680
Road Maintenaace                        282        26.9           *                    Km. of road improvements                 8,816
Irrigation                              too         6.7           *             -      Sq. meters of land irrigated            19,887
Drainage Systems                         82         6.0                         -      Km. of drainage canals                    306
Productive Infrastructure                 5S        14            -             -      (Miscellaeous)
Erion Control and Forestation           2S8        lS.0           -             -      Ha. of reforested land                   2,300
Other                                     59         3            -             -      LInear meters of lctric distribution   267,830
Sub-Total    119        81.8          340.0         388.6
Production Support                                                                       Credits                                 6,690
ROtating Funds                           23         3.2
Producton of Materials                    33        3.2
Other                                      2        0.3
Sub-Total      63        6.7           33.6          13.2
TrALS af                                3271      190.8        1,737.0        730.S
al Sums may not add due to rounding.



B. StudieS
Studies                 Purpose as Defined                      Purpose                  Status            nMpact of StudylAmments
, -  , . ,, "                ~~~at  pral,                            , -__
1. bfdt-pjec Review.          To rview pmag    an asee                                            C_mple        Fi Pn  wed to sum  OF petfonnane
(Cr. Ageem, Secto 3.0S    pedananon of BSF  manageen                                           (Paiusly 19,   sd tamIntlo amount for musts.
(a)M)).                    and key pemnun     dl el                                                             p   and al
Instittions nVolved in cauylng
2. Report on 38? Opeauton                                                                                        lotnfamaso needed was provUide  n Me
duin 196849.                                                                                                  prom  atp _paaoa o tbe &Sdhl
(Or. Agremenl, Sectio                                                                                         Invetmwn Fiuid Project and die ?CR far
"06(c)).                                                                       _E_S_                             L
U. Un  uest. aches la CkIa.                                   To asess ESP hupsT ITo tif the   Compaed            Rsals and ftnb     alped to ES? and
4,    posthive and ngave cmctelasl                       SW.
of dho prom, as wel as ts
4. bdnorne do Bvalai  del                                     To nab= the ESP so ta the           Completed      Findings taken lto amwan in desi  ot
FSE de h Presdenda de la                                    flndingfp fie tudyanbe used by                    SIF.
R-bU                                                        other -umd   -we simMer
S.  pwto 1nana del                                            To asieS  impact on                              Fing take   o ac lh deIp at
FSEL Ine    finaL                                           Glovew instituo  and NOsO    (Sepember    SI.
I    _  _   _   _  _   _   _       -_ _    _   __  -1989)                                                                     _
6. COo_ad     de pproyectos en                                TO defe obcie gudelns fr            Complt        Fndig used to s     _trnt    desig aCSIW
el Am de Aste.al SodaL                                      the alocaoat resourc  ad to        (J* 31.        Soda      tce sb je
Wdenti* need leel among fth sart    in"8
.~~~ ~ ~ .                                                                                         _     _     _    __.
7. MWd xvanoe y esado del                                     To anze  the    t   support         Complted      Findng usd to   _               ESF
apwoa a Boisus de                                           prsms in the ares.                 (July 14,
Cm    y Cstala Pando%                                                                           1989)
8. Baa  sobre d b40acTo                                       To am   sP  Impac in the Ahto       Comple        Finip gsed by ESW
aocdeo kbs poyeto dot                                       are.
Paend Sadad do 8aa_edi
an ha cidad deoEl Alto.



B. Studies
Stdies                Purpose as Defined at                     Purpose                   Status         Impact of Stadygommen
Appasa___________ _
9. BluM    _wowdk                                             To su    tbe     _       IMPact   CAOeted          dmn    pwdtb  _UOOo  impap
del programa de Inve   ,       __                           of ESFa _nvaunent prOgm                           of ESF.
10. Etdo Ocaldglo de la                                       To anlye the  _dopment potentil   C=leed          Resut take Into a      boun lathe deWi
min ?uulsma COOPegu2"                                       of the mining swwrc in the uma                    and plnaning at SF mining sub-pjes
MInem 8 do AIL
11. Cooperativa 16 do                                         To coMG  tbe ptnal Of miel          Comted         Reults takn  into amont in the kdi
Nbrcnte                                                     depost at IhC 16 de Noviembr                      and planing of SF mnn sb-POjeft
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _    ~~cooperai a._                            _       _      _      _  ___
12. Cooperativa Milea Tepon                                   To conirm the potential t minen     C_om ed        Resuhs taken uto acon In the desip
Lzds.                                                       deposis fawid to Teopoete Ld                      and planig of 5SF mining sub.eca
___C                                                                                 -__
I                                                               _                           ..              _~~~~~~~copmi
13. Cooperantlv Miners Gumn y                                 TO confim the mining Potential of   Complte       Resut. take in  account in the design
lAd                                                         Guana y LJda Coopeati              (Januay 15,   and pbling of BSF minlg sub-pj
19 I90)       _       _  _     _     _     _     _
17. Cooperauva Miners Griao                                   To assess the geological cbarest    Completed     Rels taken into amount in the dedsgn
of the mnlng Cooperative Gloia       rch 1990)  ad planig of E5F minn sbvj
18. E1sudo (eo ico de la                                      To sanayz the minig potenti of     CAmpied        Resuls m  into amunt in the deip
Min Sole.                                                   Ming Soldad                        (Nember    and plning of BSFg mininbpojec$
19. Eatudo  eoM     do la                                     To  rA   the mining potia of        Competed      Results taken Ino awou  in the desip
Mmna (J        Huata.                                       Nlo Guaqu Husa                     (Decmber    and planing of BSF ming subp
_   _     _     _  _     _ ._            _     __ ._ _._                          _,_.             1989),
20. stdlo Oaeo     del                               bTo _se the miming and opeation              Complee       Resuts taken into acount In the deswi
GOmpo  lneauo 1lla.                                         potenta of the am                  (January       and plng of ESF ming sub        p
_________~            ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ _              1990)          _     _     _     _      _     _



6. C. Sub-projects Approved by Type of Requesting Agency
IN DESCENDING ORDER ,
BY AMOUNT                                             BY NUMBER OF PROJECTS
Sub-projects Approved                                        Sub-projects Approved
REQUESTING AGENCY             Number  Amount              REQUESTING AGENCY                Number  Amount
Orderl                                              (USS M   Ordier                                              (USS M)
1. Development Corporations                 493      33.6   1. Development Corporations                  493       33.6
2. City Govts. (Department Capitals)        383       22.2   2. Religious Institutions                   421       15.7
3. Religious Institutions                   421       15.7   3. City Govts. (Department Capitals)        383       22.2
4. National Roads Service                   117       15.3   4. Prefecturas                              327       10.0
5.  Ministry of Urban Affairs               115       13.6   5. Non-governmental Organizations           220       11.5
6. Non-governmental Organizations           220       11.5   6. Grass-roots Organizations                219       10.2
7. Grass-roots Organizations                219       10.2   7. City Govts. (Non-capitals)               155        9.8
8.  Departmental Governments (Prefecturas)    327,    10.0   8. CONES (Nal. School Construction Council   142       6.8
9. City Govts. (Non-capitals)               155        9.8   9. Other Govt. Entities                     118        7.3
10. Water Companies                         101        7A   10. National Roads Service                    117      15.3        a
11. Other Govt. Entities                    118        7.3  11. Ministry of Urban Affairs                 115      13.6
12. CONES (Nal. School Construction Council   142      6.8  12. Empresas de Agua                          101       7.4
13. Other Govt. Ministries                   51        5.6  13. Schools                                   86        3.4
14. Cooperatives                             81        4.9  14. Cooperatives                              81        4.9
15. J.NS.D.S. al                             68        3.6  15. J.N.S.DS. a/                              68        3.6
16. Schools                                  86        3.4  16. Other Institutions                        52        2.5
17. Ministry of Health                       39        2.9  17. Other Govt. Ministries                    51        5.6
1&  Junta Impulsora de Pavimentacion         32        2.8  18. UNICEF                                    40        0.8
19. Other Institutions                       52        2.5  19. Ministry of Health                        39        2.9
20. Hospitals and Cinics                     11        1.1  20. Junta Impulsora de Pavimentacion          32        2.8
21. UNICEF                                   40        0.8  21. Hospitals and Clinics                      11       1.1
TOTAL b/   3271        190.8                                    TOTAL    3271       190.8
al J.N.S.D.S- National Social Assistance Committee
bl Sums may not add due to rounding.



- 32 -
7.  fttw of 
Deadline for
Coveat                   Subject                          Compliance          Status
3.0S(sii)             Lasuhp view on                 Maq 30, 1988 oad evay   In coulaneo.
prowm ma      du-              sX Mac1wt. thIreater.
Ibwed by EN      RA.
3.06(b)                Rp mun pro    in               h    t, ApdS t. J*b S,    ino ovumians.
obtaining c  _fimmi.           mand Octobwr Iof each
yar.
3.06(c)                Repast on NS operations        Marh 31, 1990          TI rqient
durn 198-1989.                                        Wa waivd in
view of Projec
for ESP I carred
out in 19890 and
evaluAtio of ENS
ooauta of apprs
of SIP.
4.01                   Ayuay by April 30.             Audits of ESP's       in qom e
-    duo, inluing
thai for witdrwals
made on dbo bas of
SOEs.
8 Use of IDA Re_or
8 A. Staff Inputs
PrOjfct     Planned | Revised       Final                    Ommens
Tuhw   Apptisal              31.0       31.0      29.8     Project was manad by County Dhion
until beginning of FY89
Apall through                 4.0        4.0       3.0
BodApprm
Board Approvl                                     16.7     Work Progmmming categodes do not
Throh Effectivenes                                        coincide with this stage
SupeVion                     §                             Planned & Revised Sup Lonw.
Total.101.2                  110.2    143.7       I~uu Board Approval
Trotal             1012       1102      143.7     



8. B. Use of IDA Resources: Missions
Stage of      IMontb/ NNumber of Days inj Specializations    P Performance         Types of
ProjectCyce     | Year | Persons I Field I Representeda/ I  Rating b/                Problems
1. PREPARATION          8/87      2         26      CE,E                      NONE
2. PRE-APPRAISAL        10/87     4         64  TE)CE,ESAN                    NONE
3. APPRAISAL            12/7      5         Q  CE,ETEAN,ES                    Procurement Prooedures
Total Appraisal                        140
FM  I S
SUPERVISION I           5188      1          6       CE           Not Rated    Determination of projects eligible to be
transferred from ESF I rfnancing.
SUPERVISION II          7/88      1         10        C            I 1I1 1    Delays in Start-up of sub-projects.
SUPERVISION III        9-Q088     4         42     2E,CE,C         I I I I    Transition from ESF to deelopment
institution with medium-term focu.
Need for inceased donor funds.        t
SUPERVISION IV         3-489      1          7       FA         NOT RATED   NONE
SUPERVISION V           6t89      1         14        C         NOT RATED   NONE
SUPERVISION VI          889       1          5       CE         NOT RATED   NONE
SUPERVISION VII         5/90      3        33       E,C,C          I I 1 1    NONE
SUPERVISION VIII        8/90      3         21      E,C,C          I I I I    NONE
SUPERVISION IX          12/90     3         33      EC,C          11 1 1     NONE
SUPERVISION X           5/91      2         42       E,C           I I 1 1    NONE
Total Superviion                                                           __
a/ AN - ANTHROPOLOGIST, C = CONSULTANT, CE  COUNTRY ECONOMIST, E = ECONOMIST;
ES = EDUCATION SPECIALIST; TE = TRANSPORT ECONOMIST;
b/ F = AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS; M = PROJECT MANAGEMENT; I = DEVELOPMENT IMPACT; S = OVERALL STATUS



- 35 -
"Evaluation and Monitoring Report." CastaAoa, MarSa In4es. imeo, 1988.
"Proyecto de Promoci4n e Investigacidn del Pondo Social de Emergencia:
Reports Final." Molino Rivero, Ramiro. Mineo, La Paz, Bolivia, 1988.
"Modelo para Nedir el Impacto Macro-Econ6maico de los Proyectos del Fondo
Social de Boergencia." UDAPE--Unidad de AnMlisis de Politica Econ6mica.
Mimoe, La Paz, Bolivia, 1988.
"Consultorias de Proyectos en el Area de Asistencia Social." Proyectos
BOL187021. Reis, Anne. July 31, 1988.
"Impacto Institucional del Fonda Social de Emergencia." SYSTEMA. Mimeo, La
Paz, Bolivia, 1989.
"Evaluacifn Macroecon6mica del Programa de Inversi6n: Ejecutado por el Fondo
Social de Emergencia 1987-Julio 1989." UDAPE --Unidad do Analisis de
Politica Econ6mica. Mimeo, La Pas, Bolivia, 1989.
"Geographical Targeting of Poverty by the Emergency Social Fund." VazDomelen,
Julie. Mimeo, La Paz, Bolivia, 1989.
"Ex-Post Project Evaluations Emergency Social Fund, Bolivia." Herrick, Bruce.
M   a,o, Washington, DC, August 15, 1989.
"Inform. Final de la Evaluaci6n Acerca del Impacto Social do 108 Proyectos del
Fondo Social de Emergencia en la Ciudad de el Alto." CEDLA. Mimoo, La
Paz, Bolivia, Noviembre, 1989.
"Un Puente Sobre la Crisis. El Pondo Social de Emergencia." By Avila Seifert,
Gerardo; Campero Prudencio, Fernando; Patiio Sarcinelli, Jorge.
"The Politic, of the Bolivian Emergency Social Fund." Graham, Carol.
Brookings InAstitution. Mimeo, Washaington, DC, 1990.
"Informe Final, Conclusiones y Recomendaciones do la Fiscalisa en Salud."
Pondo Social do Emergencia. Pati_io, Fernando. La Pax, Octubre 1990.
"Inform. de la Fiscalia T6cnica." Presidencia de la Repiblica, Fond* Social
de Emergencia. Trevi_o, Jorge. La Paz, Febrero do 1991.
"Informs de la Misi6n de Evaluaci6n del Pondo Social de Emergencia de la
Presidenc_a de la Repdblica de Bolivia." By Buxell, Ingrid, and Finot,
Ivan. La Paz, 15 de Marzo de 1991.



- 36 -
"Now Did Workers Benefit from Bolivia's *tergency Social Fund?"  Newman, Jobn,
Jorgensen, Steen, and Pradhan, Mano. World Bank Economic Review.
Washington, DC, 1991.
"Easing the Poor Through Economic Crisis sad Adjustment." The Story of
Bolivia Emergency Social Fund." Edited by Jorgensen, Steen; Grosh,
Margarett and Schacter, Mark. Latin America and the Caribbean Technical
Department, Regional Studies Program. Report No. 3. May 1991.
Chapters 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11.
"An Evaluation of the Bolivia Emergency Social lunds Selected Social
Infrastructure & Social Assistance Projects." Prepared for the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (R1W), Frankfurt, Germany. Vandever
Webb, Anna Kathryn. Washington, DC, May 31, 1991.
"Informe del Grupo de Cierre PSE." Fondo de Inversi6n Social. Fernandez de
Luis, Alfonso. La Paz, 1 de Octubre, 1991.
"Informe Consultoria Mujer y Proyectos de Educaci6n y Salud en el Fondo de
Inversi6n Social - PIS. Montano Virreira, Sonia.
"Informe de Cierre de Actividades Gestidn 1991." Pondo de Inversi6n Social,
Direcci6n de Informaci6n y Sistemas. La Paz, 31 de Enero de 1992.
OFFIIL WORLD DM  DOCMEMN
"Bolivias Country Economic Memorandum." World Bank Report 7645-BO, 1989.
"Bolivia: Updating Economic Memorandum." World Bank Report No. 8623-80.
August 30, 1990.
"Bolivia: From Stabilization to Sustained Growth". World Bank Report
No. 9763-BO. October 1, 1991.
Emermecv Social Fund I - Credit 1829-30
Memorandum of the President. June 4, 1987. Report go. P-4594-BO.
Project Performance Audit Report. Maech 20, 1990. Report No. 8449.
Supervision Reports. Dates: July 31, 1987; October 19, 1987; November 13,
1987; May 25, 1988; August 9, 1988; October 14, 1988; December 2, 1988.
gaeencS  Social Fund II - Credit 1882-10
Memorandum of the President. February 10, 1988. Report No. P-4708-BO.
Staff Appraisal Report. February 10, 1988. Report No. 7066-80.
Mid-Project Review. January 19, 1989.



- 37 -
"Ex-Post Project Uvalustion: Emergency Social Fund, Bolivia." By Nerrick,
Bruce. Mivso. Wahington, DC, August 15, 1989.
Bolivia: Quarterly Review of Procurement Practices for the Second Social
Emer8ency Pund Project (Credit 1882-BO). Dates: May 25, 1988;
September 14, 1988; December 3, 1988; March 10, 1989; July 11, 1989;
December 26, 1989.
Final Procurement Review - Emergency Social Fund BO-1882. June 17, 1991.
Supervision Reports. Dates: October 14, 1988; December 2, 1988; April 25,
1989; October 2, 1989; June 22, 1990; July 24, 1990; October 31, 1990;
November 7, 1990; April 1, 1991; July 23, 1991; November 21, 1991.



