Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7066-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
February 10, 1988
Division LA3C1
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and way be used by recipients only in the peorfonance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1987)
US$ 1.00     = 2.20 bolivianos (bol.)
US$ 0.45     - 1.00 bol.
US$ 1.00     = SDR 1.42
USS 0.70     = SDR 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS
BHC       - Basic health care
ESF       - Emergency Social Fund (Fondo Social de Emergencia)
ICB       - International competitive bidding
IDB       - Inter-American Development Bank
LCB       - Local competitive bidding
NGO       - Non-governmental organization
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
US-AID    - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
(i)
BOLIVIA
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.       THE BOLIVIAN ECONOMIC CRISIS AND THE SOCIAL EMERGENCY               1
The 1980-85 Economic Crisis and Economic Reforms since 1985        1
The Social Impact of the Crisis and Adjustment Program             2
Institutions Dealing with the Social Ir.?act                       3
II.      THE EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND                                           3
Objectives and Approach                                            3
Institutional Form                                                 4
Target Population                                                  4
Organization and Staffing                                          5
Program Targets and Capacity                                       5
Fund-Raising/Previous IDA Assistance                               5
Project Identification and Preparation ("Promocion")               6
Froject Appraisal ("Evaluacion")                                   7
Contracting                                                        8
Project Implementation and Supervision ("Seguimiento")             8
Monitoring and Evaluation                                          9
Management Information System                                      9
III.     THE PROJECT                                                       10
Origin of the Project                                             10
Objectives                                                        10
Description                                                       10
Project Costs and Financing Plan                                  12
Co-Financing Arrangements                                         13
Implementation                                                    13
Institutional Support                                             14
Sub-Project Appraisal                                             15
This project was appraised by a team consisting of Graham Smith (transport
economist and task manager), Steen Jorgensen (economist), Helen Abadzi
(education specialist), Jorge Lanas (highway engineer), John Newman (living
standards economist), Deborah Caro (anthropologist - consultant) and Alonso
Dobernig (municipal engineer - consultant). They visited Bolivia in October
and December 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perform.ance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Page No.
Sub-Project Procurement                                             15
Review by IDA of Sub-Project Appraisal and Procurement              16
Disbursements                                                       17
Accounts and Audits                                                 17
Peporting                                                           17
Cost Recovery/Operation and Mainte.;_--                             18
Honitoring end Feedback                                             18
Institutional Sustainability                                        18
Women's Considerations                                              19
Environmental Impact                                                19
IV.      BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES                                           20
Target Groups and Beneficiaries                                     20
Benefits                                                            20
Risks                                                               20
V.       RECOYENDATIONS                                                       21
Attachment 1  Sources of Financing
2 Sub-Projects Approved in 1987
(a) Summary by Project Type
(b) Summary by Location
(c) Summary by Implementation Status
3 Key Indicators for IDA's Sub-Project Review
4 Decree-Law Setting up ESF in Present Form
5 ESF's Role in the Development Strategy for the Social Sectors
(a) Health and Nutrition
(b) Education
6 Documents in Project File
7 Organization Chart



BOLIVIA
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.   THE BOLIVIAN ECONOMIC CRISIS AND THE SOCIAL EMERGENCY
The 1980-85 Economic Crisis and Economic Reforms since 1985
1.1      The Government of President Paz Estenssoro, which took office in
August 1985, faced a country in acute economic crisis. Real GDP was
contracting for the fifth consecutive year, shortages were widespread, and
the annual rate of inflation reached almost 24,000Z in the twelve months
preceding August 1985. The currency was severely overvalued, usable
international reserves were virtually depleted, and external payments
arrears had accumulated rapidly. The new government initiated a far-
ranging stabilization and adjustment program in late August 1985, termed
the New Econolic Policy and embodied in Supreme Decree No. 21060. Its
primary objectives were to reduce inflatlon sharply, restore external and
internal financial balance, and lay the foundations for sustained economic
recovery. Centered on a drastic reductinn of the public sector deficit,
the program relied on minimal controls, reducing the state's role and
encouraging a free-market economy.
1.2      The Government inherited an economy that presents particular
development challenges. Bolivia is one of the poorest countries in Latin
America and per capita income declined by over A thnird in the period 198C-
86, to reach $540. Bclivia's landlocked positioa and mountainous terrain
render transport costs high and access difficult. About one-half of the
economically active populatic is engaged in agriculture, but primarily on
the highlands of the Altiplano where subsistence farming predominates and
potential for growth is limited. The vast, sparsely populated lowlands
have good potential for agriculture, but their development is only now
beginning and is fraught with difficulties. Tin mining, the n.ainstay of
the economy throughout much of Bolivia's history, has poor prospects: the
ore content of lodes being worked has declined severely and production
costs are far above those of competing sources. The collapse of the
international tin cartel in September 1985 finally forced the Government to
fire more than 20,000 workers in the state-owned mining company, COMIBOL.
The almost simultaneous halving of oil prices deprived Bolivia of income
from what in recent years had been its second major source of foreign
exchange: natural gas. This forced further reductions in public-sector
employment, notably a radical cutback at the Central Bank from 1,200
employees to about 200.
1.3      In the two years since its inception, the economic stabilization
program has b'en very successful. Inflation in the twelve months prior to
November 1987 was about 102, the huge gap between official and parallel
foreign exchange rates has been eliminated, the consolidated public-sector
deficit was reduced from 282 of GDP in 1984 to 4Z in 1986 and in 1987 GDP
finally reversed its downward trend and grew by at least 1.51. In 1987 the
Government turned its attention to longer-term measures: restructuring
ailing public enterprises and overhauling the tax system. In July the



- 2 -
Government issued an economic reactivation decree designed to stimulate
private-sector investments and exports, facilitate the implementation of
externally funded public investments, strengthen the shaky financial
system, and provide funds and institutional mechanisms for the construction
of low-cost housing.
The Social Impact of the Crisis and Adjustment Program
1.4      The social cost of the economic collapse up to 1985 and of the
austerity measures taken since then has been high. Indicators of social
welfare paint a picture that, while alarming enough before the depression,
is now even worse. Infant mortality was estimated in the late 70s to range
from 135 to 200 deaths under one year per thousand live births; in some
rural areas the rate is twice as high. This is one of the highest rates in
Latin America, if not the world. The maternal mortality rate, estimated at
48 per 10,000 live births, is also exceptionally high. There are
indications that the situation has worsened in the last few years. Severe
malnutrition is widespread, particularly in the rural population of the
Altiplano. Diarrhea and parasitic diseases are the commonest causes of
death. Access to primary health care is very limited in rural areas. It
is estimated that only 1OZ of rural households have access to piped water
and only 42 to sewerage.
1.5      Estimates of unemployment and under-employment vary wircly, o    but
one commonly cited rate is 20-25Z of the economically active population, or
400,000-500,000 workers. More specific estimates put the number of miners
laid off from public and private mines at about 27,000 and other workers
laid off from the public sector at 15-16,000.
1.6      Since there is little effective unemployment compensation system
other than severar..e payments made to the miners, many of thcse laid off
are now engaged in informal activities, such as selling contraband
cigarettes on the streets of La Paz, shoe-shining and other unskilled
services. Such work is thought to br4ng in about $30-60 per month in La
Paz, less elsewhere. One consequence of the collapse of economic activity
in the mining towns is that nearby small farmers have lost their markets.
They have had to absorb their loss of cash incomes by cutting back on
expenditures on health care, among other things, and taking children out of
school so that they can work in ways that will contribute to family income.
1.7      How much of this social cost should be blam?d on the adjustment
program and how much on what went before is hard to untangle, and data to
elucidate the question are inadequate. Much of the unemployment, though
directly caused by actions taken under the stabilization program, appears
to have been made inevitable by the poor economic management that led to
the hyper-intlation crisis and made the previously high levels of public
employment unsustainable.
1.8      Social unrest rooted in the economic crisis has been widespread.
Bolivia has been the scene of a continuous series of strikes, protests, and
severe criticism from the opposition. since 1986 the Government has
increasingly focused on social issues, particularly the short-term
unemployment problem but also the longer-term need to improve social
conditions generally. The proposed project is part of this response.



- 3 -
Institutions Dealing with the Social Impact
1.9      Bolivia is poorly equipped, institutionally, to cope with the
social impact of the depression. The three ministries with primary
responsibility for social welfare--Social Welfare and Public Health,
Education, and Housing and Urban Development--do not have the skilled
manpower, budget or management capacity to mount an effective response;
integration of local-level activities with national-level activities is
particularly difficult. A multitude of non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) has attempted to fill the gaps, mostly working on a small scale
without coordination, sometimes at cross purposes with each other. It is
estimated, for example, that 602 of all non-traditional primary health care
is being provided by NGOs. In the peri-urban areas of La Paz, Cochabamba
and Santa Cruz, the Ministry of Health reaches about 5-102 of the
population while NGOs reach 10-15Z; in rural areas the estimates are 15-20?
coverage by the Ministry and 25? by NGOs.
1.10     Most NGOs rightly stress that responsibility for implementing
social assistance programs is best entrusted tc community organizations
representing the beneficiaries themselves. The NGOs see their role as
giving advice to the communities on how to deveiop ideas into workable
programs, providing selective financing for materials and supplies, and
assisting in implementation to the extent of interceding with government
agencies, etc. Some umbrella organizations of NGOs exist, such as the
National Association of NGOs Working in Health. Their role so far has been
limited to informat .on dissemination and program coordination; they have
been teluctant to assume operational responsibilities as substitutes for
ineffecti-xe public bureaucracies. In these circumstances the Government
decided in late 1986 to set up, as its principal instrument for addressing
the social impact of the ec3nomic crisis, the Emergency Social Fund.
II. THE EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND
Objectives and Approach
2.1      The purpose of the Emergency Social Fund (ESF) is to finance. by
means of grants, small-scale employment-generating and income-generating
projects and social assistance p;ograms, to benefit those hardest hit by
the economic crisis. The projects and programs are proposed and
implemen'ed by local governments, co-operatives, and other community
groups, both public and private; they are carried out by contractors
wherever feasible, under the technical supervision of qualified agencies.
The nature of the projects funded is determined, in the first instance, by
the proposals that these sponsors put forward. The ESF gives priority to
projects most likely to have substantial multiplier benefits, and those
whose sponsors have the capacity to ensure rapid, efficient and honest
implementation. As a broad target, ESF aimed initially to allocate three
quarters of its funding to employment-generating projects and one quarter
to social assistance activities. So far, the most common types of project
have been urban street paving, water supply and sewerage, low-cost build-



- 4 -
it-yourself housing, repairs to school buildings, and civil works for
erosion control. In the social assistance category, ESF is funding, among
other things, vocational training, assistance to medical centers, school
breakfast programs, vaccination campaigns and nutritional training.
Institutional Form
2.2      First formed in 1985, ESF was restrulctured in November, 3986, by a
supreme decree (Attachment 4) as an independent institution reporting
directly to the President. It is to have a life of only three years (1987-
89), is a financing and supervising agency only, and its staff will not
exceed 80 persons. At the end of this period it is to hand over its
operations to the appropriate sectoral ministries or agencies. The Fund's
principal functions are (a) fund-raising, (b) identifying and encouraging
the development of projects addressing the needs of its target groups, (c)
screening and appraising projects, and (d) contracting for and providing
financial supervision of their implementation. It is thus somewhat like a
development bank for small-scale enterprises, except that it makes grants
instead of loans and is involred in contracting. All projects have to be
approved by a board of directors consisting of the President of the
Republic as chairman, the executive director, and three members
representing respectively the techni al community, the political community
and non-governmental social institutions. The Fund is further accountable
to public opinion through its obligation to report to Congress and the
press every three months on its sources and uses of funds.
TarRet Population
2.3      ESF defines its target population pragmatically, to embrace (a)
those who lost their jobs in the economic crisis and austerity measures --
dismissed miners and public-sector employees-- (b) the families of the
above and those, like small farmers near mining towns, whose livelihood
depended indirectly on mining; and (c) those whose nutrition and health
levels have reached critical levels --the rural poor, who constitute a
long-term, structural problem, and especially pregnant women, lactating
mothers and pre-school children. Thus, ESF explicitly requires that
certain employment-generating projects hire ex-miners, while the social
assistance projects give preference to mothers and children, and priority
as to geograpbical location is given to the poorest areas of the country
and those wi^h the highest levels of unemployment.
2.4      In selecting projects, ESF matches their location with available
information on local unemployment rates and social indicators. Targeting
is also achieved throughi the setting of commitment goals by project type,
as each affects particular portions of the target population. For example,
erosion control projects usually employ ex-miners, and food supplenment
schemes are targeted to mothers and infants. The beneficiaries are
explicitly considered in two groups: those who receive employment during
the investment period, and the beneficiaries of the completed project. For
example, an erosion control project in a poverty-stricken area will be
preferred to a similar project in a wealthier are:3.



5-
Organization and Staffing
2.5      ESF is headed by a widely respected and capable businessman, who
was closely involved in formulating the New Economic Policy. He has
recruited a staff of able, young and highly motivated professionals. As of
December 1987 its entire otaff numbered about 72. It is organized and
equipped appropriately (see organization chart, Attachment 7 and the
sections below on each major function). During 1987 it showed considereble
flexibility in evolving to meet new requirements as they have become
apparent. Its administrative costs in 1987 and its budget for 1988 and
1989 are between 2.5 and 32 of its total program amount, which is
reasonable.  By the terms of the Supreme Decree, not more than 1Z of funds
received from the National Treasury may be spent on administration; *'le
remainder must be funded by external donors.
Program Targets and Capacity
2.6      ESP plans to provide financing of US$130-180 million over the
three years, the exact level depending on the international support
forthcoming. Each year of the program is expected to create, on average,
about 20,00 man-years of employment. By the end of December 1987, it had
44 projects already completed, another 418 in operation or finally
approved, and some 150-200 under evaluation (Attachment 2). The average
project was expected to take eight months to carry out (with a maximum of
24 months) and to cost about US$80,000. Although starting only in March,
by the znd of December ESF had committed US$37 million, creating 13,600
man-years of employment and providing direct health, nutrition and
educational assistance to some 155,000 beneficiar.ies. It had disbursed
US$10 million, a considerable accomplishment in Bolivia's present
circumstances. In November and December ESF was receiving 25-30 requests
and approving 15-20 per week, for a weekly commitment of US$l.2-1.8
million; weekly disbursements were US$0.6-0.8 million. This implies a
commitment rate of US$5-6 million per month, an appropriate 'cruising
speed' in relation to the financing available.
Fund-Raising/Previous IDA Assistance
2.7      During the December 1986 meeting of the Consultative Group on
Bolivia, the Association accepted a lead role in helping to structure the
newly created ESF, to provide IDA resources, and to coordinate fund-raising
efforts directed at other multilateral and bilateral sources. So far,
funding of about US$59 million is assured (Attachment 1). This includes
US$8 million from the National Treasury. two loans totalling US$9 million
from the Inter-American Development Bank, an IDA credit of approximately
US$10 million (SDR 7.8 million) under the Emergency Social Fund Project
approved by the Board in June 1987, and the following grants: Switzerland
Sw.Fr.15 million (about US$11 million), the Federal Republic of Germany
DM15 million (about US$9 million), the United Kingdom £5 million (about
US$8 million, the local currency proceeds from balance of payments
support), and smaller donations from Canada, Holland, Switzerland, the US
Agency for International Development (US-AID), and the United Nations



- 6 -
Development Programme (UNDP). The Swiss grant is co-financing with the IDA
credit, administered by the Association.
2.8      IDA's first ESF project was appraised in early May, 1987;  it
provided approximately US$10 million towards the 1987 program, as well as
institutional support (technical assistance and, upon amendment, financing
of fixed-term personnel through July 1988) to help ESF develop its
selec' Lion criteria and procedures. The Sredit became effective in
November, 1-1/2 months later than planned because of delay3 in the
ratification by Congress. By February 8, about 882 of the credit had oeen
committed and 32? disbursed. It is expected that the credit will be fully
committed by the end of February and about 80Z disbursed by May 1988.
2.9      The Swiss co-financing is being managed by the Association as a
pool tugether with the IDA credit. The proceeds are allocated to
employment-generating projects, social assistance and institutional support
in the same proportions, and the same conditions governing subproject
ppraisal, procurement, and review by the Association apply to both
ontributions. These arrangements were formalized in an amendment to the
evelopment Credit Agreement in early December 1987.  Each commitment and
uisbursement is being split 50/50 between the IDA credit and the Swiss
funds.
2.10     The Dutch and Canadian governments have indicated a willingness to
consider further contributions, and several European countries have also
expressed interest. ESF is looking to the May 1988 meeting of the
Consultative Group for Bolivia to firm up these and other prospects.
Beyond the US$59 million already assured, possible sources for a further
US$58 million have been identified, of which the proposed second IDA credit
would be the largest single contribution. The target of $130-180 million
in total is therefore achievable, but will require a considerable effort of
fund-raising still.
Project Identification and Preparation ("':omocion')
2.11     Identifying and preparing projects is the responsibility of
sponsors, but ESF provides advice to them through an outreach unit
('Promocion"). It has conducted seminars for major groups of co-
operatives, church organizations and other NGOs, to explain ESF's
objectives and method of operating. At an early stage, recognizing the
particular importance of finding employment for ex-miners, ESF set up a
semi-independent miners' unit, which generated a US$5 million program of
road mainLenance projects to be carried out by labor-intensive methods;
contractors are required to hire exclusively ex-miners. The first
contracts under this program were awarded in October.
2.12     In October, at the time of the pre-appraisal mission, the share of
funding committed to social assistance programs per se was only 22, far
below the target of 25X. When the construction and repair of schools,
health centers and other civil works for social agancies were included,
which ESF counts as employment-generating projects, the share was still
only 8?. This reflected several factors: the distrust initially felt by
many NGOs, for political reasons, towards government-promoted programs; a
lack of understanding of ESF's objectives and methods; the limited know-



- 7 -
how among many social-service NGOs as to how to prepare and present a
project, and the low quality of many social assistance proposals (vague or
inappropriate objectives, lack of financial know-how, institutional
weaknesses, etc.); the relative difficulty for ESP in appraising and
following up such projects, as compared to labor-intensive infrastructure
projects; and the training of most ESP staff members in engineering and
economics, with little experience iL health, nutrition and education.
2.13     Recognizing the need for a much more active role if the target for
social assistance was to be reached, ES! management up-graded the Promocion
unit into a department divided into two units, one specifically for
employment-generating projects and the other for social assistance. Four
professionals were assigned to the latter and a crash program begun, which
has included producing and disseminating informational documents for
prospective project sponsors, simplifying the application forms, and
travelling extensively in the country to meet interested organizations,
particularly in rural areas. By the time of appraisal two months later,
the share of education and health projects approved had already risen from
8X to 132 and a substantial pipeline had been identified.
Project Appraisal ("Evaluacion")
2.14     The scope of the economic appraisal carried cut by ESF depends on
the project's type and size. ESF appraisers visit the site of every
project.  They are then categurized 'Lto those for which a rate of return
calculation is feasible and those fur which it is not. The latter include
projects for social assistance, construction of schools end health posts,
training, and some infrastructure. tmong the former, a 122 economic return
is required as a minimum for all projects expected to cost US$100,000 or
more. For smaller projects and those excepted above, less detailed benefit
information is gathered, and the tndicators given most attention are the
total cost per month of work created (US$225 has been the average on
projects approved to date), labor cost as percent of total ESF contribution
(the goal is 602, though the direct labor share in 1987 averaged 30-352)
and import costs as percent of total costs (the goal is less than l0Z)--all
of which are acceptable. In approving projects, ESF tempers the results of
the economic evaluation with the expected impact on the target population
and the sustainability of the project.
2.15     These criteria are being applied satisfactorily for employment-
generating projects, and the projects approved to date are soundly
designed. IDA supervision missions in July, August, October and December
have reviewee these procedures and criteria and refinements have been made,
particularly in the assessment of benefits, aided by technical assistance
(various short-term assignments) funded by UNDP and other international
donors.
2.16     The appraisal of social assistance operations has been more
problematic. It is inevitably a slower process (maximum of 1-1/2 projects
per appraiser per week) than the appraisal of infrastructure projects.
Also, the checks and balances created by the inclusion of a contractor
usually do not exist in these projects. For this reason, social assistance
projects require a detailed investigation of the prospective executing
agencies. The appraiser must evaluate (a) the efficacy of the project's
goals; (b) the implementation capacity of the NGO submitting the



- 8 -
application; (c) the NGO's financial state; and (d) the cost of the
project independently of the estimates presented by the NGO. Often, NGO
staff with limited experience in preparing proposals need help from SSF in
defining details.
2.17     For these reasons, in November the Appraisal Department, like the
Promocion Department, was split into separate employment-generating and
social assistance units, and three more staff were assigned to the latter.
To streamline appraisal, ESF in January 1988 installed a computerized
system to record and retrieve standard unit costs and benefits, so as to
flag exceptions. These actions show a commendable responsiveness on the
part of ESF management to move quickly to address problems as they arise.
Contracting
2.18     Under the terms of its supreme decree, ESF is limited to financing
contracts under US$750,000. More than 901 are in fact for less than
US$200,000. Its procurement procedure involves establishing a standard
price on the basis of a schedule of unit costs that it developed and
continually up-dates, and making a take-it-or-leave-it offer at this price
to a contractor proposed by the sponsoring agency. In the few cases where
the nominated contractor refused this price, the sponsors have had little
difficulty in finding another who would accept it. The Association
reviewed this unconventional procedure when appraising the first ESF
Project and, in view of the very slow and unsatisfactory experiez,ce with
competitive bidding in recent years under current Bolivian law, the small
size of most ESF contracts and their urgency, found it acceptable for
contracts expected to have a value of up to US$250,000. All other donors
have also accepted this procedure. For contracts to be funded by the IDA
credit or Swiss funds and expected to have a value of over US$250,(0O, IDA
required ESF to employ a local shopping procedure, whereby bids would be
sought from at least three contractors prequalified by the sponsoring
agency. Experience in the first ten months of ESF's operation has been
satisfactory; only one contract out of the 293 awarded by the end of 1987
had been cancelled for reasons related to the cor.,racting procedure.
Project Implementation and Supervision ('Seguimientol)
2.19     Civil works and construction projects are carried out by local
private contractors under the supervision of either the sponsoring agency
or, if it is judged to lack the capacity to do so, a technical agency such
as a regional development corporation or ministry. For example, architects
from the Miristry of Housing and Urban Development supervise the self-help
housing projects for miners.  Social assistance projects are typically
carried out by the sponsoring agency under the supervision of a government
department or NGO. Save the Children, for example, is carrying out a set
of projects in Inquisivi province in which the communities themselves
repair primary schools, make wooden school desks, provide schocl
breakfasts, run vocational training, and operate vaccinaation programs and
nutrition classes for rural mothers, all in co-ordination with the local
representatives of the relevant ministries and under the supervision of
another NGO. Each project is covered by a three- or four-party contract
among ESF (as the f.nding agency), the sponsoring agency, the contractor
(where appropriate) and/or the separate supervising agency.



- 9 -
2.20     ESF disburses 20X of the cost of each project as a mobilization
advance upon signing of the contract, against receipt of a bank guarantee.
Thereafter it makes partial payments each month covering the percentage of
work completed, the latter having to be certified independently by both the
supervising agency and an ESF field representative. For this purpose ESF
has set up small offices (each with one professional, a secretary, driver
and jeep) in Cochabamba, Santa Cruz, Potosi, Sucre and Tarija.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.21     Little empirical information is currently available on laid-off
workers' patterns of migration, employment, family structure, and quality
of life. ESF therefore contracted with a Bolivian sociologist to carry out
a program of surveys to assess the effects of its projects, by providing
(a) basic data on the number of people actually employed on ESF projects,
the number and nature of direct beneficiaries of social assistance
projects, and the indirect benefits and beneficiaries of infrastructure
projects; and (b) more detailed data and qualitative information on how
ESF managers can improve their efficiency and effectiveness. Preliminary
results, received on January 15, are being reviewed; they argue for a
larger share of the effort to go to rural areas, but otherwise show no need
for substantial changes in the program or targeting.
2.22     At the launch of the first IDA project an inter-agency committee
was also formed, to determine the adequacy of the ESF initiatives in
addressing the broad effects of the on-going economic adjustment. The
committee is chaired by the Under-Secretary for Investment Planning and
International Co-operation of the Ministry of Planning, and includes
representatives of ESF, the National Institute of Statistics, and the
Ministry of Planning's Unit for Economic Policy Analysis. To this end, ESF
contracted for a second, smaller study to estimate the contribution of its
program to the economic recovery, with particular attention to its
multiplier effects. This study, which relies on information from the
permanent household survey that became available in January 1988, will be
completed in March 1988, in time for the Consultative Group meeting in May.
2.23     To explore further th( question of whether E.F assistance is
indeed reaching the most needy, and how this could be done better, a
foll3w-up progrtm of qualitative surveys among actual and potential
beneficiaries is being launched in February 1988, funded jointly by IDA
(under its first credit), US-AID and UNDP.
Management Information System
2.24     ESF benefits greatly from a computerized data base installed on a
network of 16 micro-computers. All departments make frequent and effective
use of the data base for preparing management reports, which have been
invaluable in keeping track of the very large volume of transactions. Some
of the computers have been financed under the first IDA credit.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
Origin of the Proiect
3.1      From the outset, the Association's first credit to the Emergency
Social Fund was thought of as a pilot operation, the Bank group's first
project explicitly designed to alleviate the social costs of economic
adjustment. It was appraised exceptionally quickly, to allow a fast start-
up. There were risks inherent in its innovative nature, the fact that the
newly formed implementing agency had not yet had time to establish a track
record, and the accelerated appraisal. The credit amount was therefore
deliberately small, funds were allocated for substantial institutional
support for ESF in its start-up phase, and provision was made for intensive
supervision by the Association. At the same time, the present follow-up
operation was planned to cover the second and third years, or main phase,
of ESF's three-year existence, conditional upon satisfactory performance
with the first phase. The four supervision missions between July and
December judged ESF's performance to warrant fully IDA's continued support.
The Project was therefore appraised in December 1987. Negotiations were
held in Washington on January 25-27, 1988, the Bolivian delegation being
led by Mr. Fernando Romero, ESF's Executive Director.
Obiectives
3.2      The project addresses the severe unemployment and loss of income
prevailing as the cumulative result of the shrinking of the Bolivian
economy since 1980, the strict fiscal and monetary austerity measures
introduced in mid-1985 as part of the New Economic Policy, and the collapse
of tin prices in late 1985. The Emergency Social Fund is intended to build
public acceptance for the economic adjustment measures and act as a bridge
until the recovery gains momentum. It is also part of IDA's strategy to
help the Government reform the structure of the health and education
sectors, by decentralizing responsibilities to local governments and non-
governmental organizations and shifting priorities towards basic health
care and primary schools (Attachment 5). ESF is an effective instrument
for implementing certain short-term requirements of this strategy, while
IDA prepares a more comprehensive Social Sectors Project planned for FY90.
The credit will finance about a quarter of the main phase (1988 and 1989)
of ESF's planned three-year program, and provide it continued
institutional support. At the same time the project aims to help mobilize
further support for ESI& among the international donor community.
Description
3.3      The proposed credit will contribute to financing a portion of
ESF's program during the period from January 1988 through December 1989.
The program will continue to consist of small-scale employment- and income-
generating projects and social assistance activities, targeted to those
suffering most from the effects of the economic crisis and the economic
adjustment process, such as short-term unemployed, particularly those
affected by the collapse of the mining industry, and the rural poor,
especially pregnant women, lactating mothers and pre-school children. The



- 11 -
project will also finance selected fixed-term personnel and technical
assistance from August 1988 through December 1989.
3.4      The proceeds of the credit will be lent to the Republic of
Bolivia, which vill pass them on as a grant to ESF. ESF in turn will use
the credit, in conjunction with funds from other international donors and
the National Treasury, to finance, on a grant basis, sub-projects proposed
and implemented by local governments, co-operatives, and other community
groups, both public and private, under the technical supervision (where
necessary) of qualified agencies.
3.5      At the time of the appraisal mission, ESF reformulated its program
targets, to arrive at the following:
2 Planned        1 Actual
(1987-89)       in 1987
Soci.al assistance                              10                3
food and nutrition                        3.7               0.5
health                                     4.3              1.0
training & support to education           2                 1.5
Social infrastructure                           36               34
drinking water & sewerage                14                12
construction & repair of schools          5                 6
construction of health posts              4                 3
housing                                  10                14
cultural projects                         3                 0
Economic infrastructure                         45               53
rural roads maintenance & drainage       15               14
urban improvement (street paving, etc) 12                  25
irrigation & drainage                    10                 3
erosion control & forestation             5                 7
other construction                         3                5
Support to production                            9                9
working capital credit                     5                9
support to co-operatives                  3                 0
support to other small manufacturers    1                   0
Total                                  100              100
3.6      This breakdown is acceptable.  The reduction in the share of
support to health and education (including construction) from ESF's initial
target of 252 to 19Z does not imply any reduction in the importance
attached to it, but rather the recognition that it is more difficult to
generate sound projects in social assistance than infrastructure, and that
the former are on average appreciably smaller than the latter.
3.7      Institutional support will take the form of:
(a) technical assistance for ESF's sub-project identification,
preparation and appraisal, monitoring and other activities;
(b) budget support for fixed-term staff; and
(c) maintenance of office equipment (chiefly computers).



- 12 -
Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
3.8      ESF plans to commit a total of US$90-140 million in 1988-89 (in
addition to the US$37 million comitted in 1987), the eventual amount
depending on the contributions yet to be committed by the international
donor community. ESF has the capacity to implement a program of US$140
million, corresponding to committing US$1.75 million per week for the 80
weeks between January 1988 and July 1989.   It implies a financing gap of
US$83 million; this is the upper limit. If, besides the expected
government contribution and second IDA credit, all the potential donations
identified so far (para. 2.10 and Attachment 1, page 2) are realized but no
further ones are obtained, the total program would be US$80 million; US$90
million is taken as the lower limit.
3.9      The present project is defined as that part of this program for
which financing is already assured, amounting to about US$59 million
equivalent. Of th..s, US$6 million (or 10?) will be in foreign exchange
(Table 1). Tax is estimated to be not more than US$3 million (52 of the
total). No provision needs to be made for physical and price
contingencies, in view of the time-slice nature of the project; any under-
or over-estimation of prices will be accommodated by adjusting the number
of sub-projects committed.
Table 1: Summary Projects Costs
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
--- In bol millions---       ---In US$ millions----
A.  Sub-projects            114       12        126       51.5      5.7       57.2
Social Assistance        12        1         13       5.2      0.5        5.7
Social Infrastr.         41        4         45      18.5      2.1       20.6
Economic Infrastr.       51        6         57      23.1      2.6       25.7
Production               10        1         11       4.7      0.5        5.2
B.  Institutional Suppt.    2          1          3        1.1      0.3        1.4
Total                       116       13        129       52.6      6.0      58.6
3.10     Sources of funding for the project are shown in Table 2.  The
Government already has assured funding from the following donors (though
some are subject to restrictions): Canada, Federal Republic of Germany,
Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom, US-AID, Inter-American
Development Bank and UNDP. Of these donations, about US$22 million will be
available for commitment during 1988 and 1989. Other financing will be
sought to fill the funding gap of US$83 million; potential donors and
amounts are listed in Attachment 1. Any shortfall will reduce the overall
size of the program and benefits, as ESF will defer committing sub-projects
beyond those for which 100? funding is assured; but it will not affect the
benefits to be gained from the IDA credit.



- 13 -
Table 2: Proiect and Prouram Financing
Max. Program
Other    Total      Financing    ESF
Govt     IDA   Donors  Proiect        Gap     Capacity
_-_-- (in million US$)------
Sub-projects            9.5    25.8    21.9    57.2          82.8      140.0
Institutional Support   -        1.2     0.2      1.4         0.1        1.5
Total                   9.5    27.0    22.1    58.6          82.9      141.5
Administration          0..
3.-%     If sub-projects over the next two years have the same average cost
as those committed to date (approximately US$80,000), a total of about 740
sub-projects will be carried out under the project as defined above, and
about 1,750 in the program as a whole, if the higher target for other
donations is met. The Credit will be applied against partial disbursements
by ESF against all eligible sub-projects approved by ESF after January 1,
1988 and thereafter until such time as the Credit is exhausted.
Expenditures on eligible sub-projects made between January 1 and the
signing of the Credit agreement will qualify for retroactive financing up
to an aggregate of US$2.7 million (102 of the Credit amount). The pace of
disbursements will depend on the mix of funds available to ESF from various
sources. The part of the Credit allocated to sub-projects twill be almost
fully disbursed by the end of 1988, and will be applied to about 400 sub-
projects under implementation during that year. The institutional support
will continue through December 1989. Other sources will ensure financing
of the gap between the total cost of IDA-assisted sub-projects and IDA's
contribution.
Co-financing Arrangements
3.12     Preliminary discussions have been held with the Dutch Government
regarding possible co-financing with IDA of about US$5 million. An ESF/IDA
mission visiting the Hague in early February will suggest that the two
contributions could be administered jointiy as a pool, under arrangements
similar to those made for the Swiss co-financing under ESF I (para. 2.9).
Other European governments are also considering further contributions. It
is not essential to the success of the IDA operation that th.ere exist a
formal legal relationshil .aith other donors; the advantage is rather that
some donors may find it easiser to participate under such an arrangement.
Given ESF's urgent need in the second quarter of 1988 for assured funds
against which to make commitments, it will be necessary, if other donors
request a formal co-financing arrangement, to proceed by means of an
amendment, after the Credit becomes effective, as was done without
detriment in the case of ESF I.
Implementation
3.13     ESF's current staffing, criteria and monitoring procedures for
identifying, preparing, appraising, implementing sub-projects (described in



- 14 -
Chapter 2) are satisfactory to the Association and will be continued, with
the exceptions to be noted in the following paragraphs. The inter-agency
committ e set up in 1987 to provide oversight by the Government (para.
2.22) will also continue to operate.
3.14     IDA will conduct, by November 30, 1988, a comprehensive mid-
project review of progress, on the basis of which it might, in the light of
its findings, propose amendments to the allocation of its resources, or to
procurement and other procedures.
3.15     Allowing five months time contingency for possible implementation
delays, the project will be completed by May 31, 1990. The closing date of
the Credit will be November 30, 1990.
Institutional Support
3.16     IDA-financed technical advisors will be hired by ESF (about 24
domestic expert-months and 9 international expert-months) at an average
total cost per month of US$1,500 for domestic experts and US$8,000 for
international experts, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
3.17     This assistance will cover services in the areas shown in Table 3
between August, 1988, and December, 1989:
Table 3: Technical Assistance
Local     Foreign      Cost
(/im)      (m/m)      ($000)
(a)  Fund-raising                       2          -            2
(b) Sectoral experts:
i. Social assistance               -          3          24
ii. Production                      -          3           24
iii. Infrastructure/construction   -            3           24
(c)  Monitoring                         - 1/        -          50
(d)  Costing                           12          -           24
(e)  Information systems                4          -            4
(f)  Exl:ernal audit                    - 1/       - 1/        50
(g)  Closing down ESF (admin/acctg)   6            -            6
Total      24          9          208
Note:   1/   Budgeted as lump sums
Outline terms of reference for the above were agreed at appraisal, and are
available in the Project File.



- 15 -
3.18     Other technical assistance, covering most parts of ESF's project
cycle, has been tentatively agreed upon vith UNDP costing up to $540,000,
to be implemented between April 1987 and December 1989. Of this total,
about $200,000 will apply to the project period (Table 2).
3.19     In view of the restriction imposed cn National Treasury
contributions to ESF's administrative budget (the 12 rule--para. 2.5), the
credit will also finance 47 fixed-term professional staff positions from
August 1988 through December 1989 in the following departments: fund-
raising, identification/preparation, appraisal, supervision, and
administration/treasury. Their qualifications, terms and conditions of
employment have been reviewed by IDA and are satisfactory. The average
cost of the 664 staff-months is estimated at $1,230 per month, for a total,
including the costs of field travel and training workshops, of $970,000.
The credit will also finance maintenance of office equipment (chiefly
computers), estimated at $15,000.
3.20     The institutional support component would be appropriate for
sharing with any co-financier, as has been done under ESF I.
Sub-proiect Appraisal
3.21     ESF has agreed to up-date and expand its appraisal manual, to
cover not only the employment-generation operations which were the primary
focus of the first version prepared early in 1987, but also social
assistance and support to production. The receipt by IDA of the expanded
manual, satisfactory to the Association, is recommended as a condition of
credit effectiveness.
Sub-proiect Procurement
3.22     Because of its emergency nature, ESF is exempted, by the terms of
the supreme decree setting it up, from the government procurement law ("Ley
de Licitaciones"). For sub-projects to be carried out by a community
organization or NGO (e.g. self-help housing and social assistance sub-
projects) ESF will continue to negotiate directly with the implementing
entity nominated by the sponsor on the basis of a schedule of standa..d
prices maintained by ESF. This standard price procedure will also be used
for infrastructure sub-projects expected to cost under US$250,000. While
unconventional, this procedure is acceptable to the Association for
contracts of this size in ESF's exceptional circumstances, in view of (a)
the importance of administrative simplicity for handling 15-20 contracts
per week, (b) the very slow and unsatisfactory experience in recent years
with the procurement law (which the Government intends to reform), (c) the
exceptional competence demonstrated by ESF's staff, and (d) the
satisfactory accountability mechanisms in place (para. 2.2) that give
strong incentives for honest contracting and effective implementation.
The Association is satisfied that, in Bolivia's current circumstances, this
standard price procedure minimizes opportunities for corruption and has
allowed ESF to obtain the lowest prices possible, consistent with the
contractor being able to complete the job to a satisfactory quality. Sub-
project sponsors for contracts under US$250,000 will be permitted, at their
option, either to nominate a contractor or select one by competitive
bidding. However, to ensure fair access to ESF contracts for all qualified



- 16 -
contractors, IDA will not normally approve the awarding of contracts to any
one contractor by the standard price procedure for more than US$500,000 in
aggregate; waivers may be granted on a case-by-case basis in the light of
the availability of qualified contractors and the opportunities given to
other contractors to participate.
3.23     For contracts expected to cost more than US$250,000 in sub-
projects where competitive bidding is feasible, ESF will require the sub-
project sponsor (commonly a municipality, regional development corporation
or the Servicio Nacional de Caminos, the national road authority) to select
a contractor on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB). If the
lowest bid is significantly above ESF's estimate based on its standard
prices, ESF will reserve the right to reject all bids and negotiate with
the lowest bidder on the basis of its (ESF's) standard prices. This LCB
procedure, which is acceptable to IDA, is expected to apply to about 3Z of
projects and about 15Z of total project cost. It replaces the shopping
procedure used under the first project (para. 2.18), reflecting our view
that the delay that bid advertising will entail, unacceptable to ESF in its
start-up phase, is now an acceptable price to pay for broadening contractor
participation.
3.24     Since all contracts must, by the terms of the Supreme Decree, be
for less than US$750,000 and will be scattered throughout the country, it
is unlikely that foreign contractors will be interested in participating.
All contractors will have to meet the criteria for eligibility under IDA's
procurement guidelines.
3.25     Since use of the standard price procedure for the emounts
indicated is exceptional in a Bank project, and its merits rely heavily on
the honesty and integrity of ESF management, IDA and ESF will conduct a
review of procurement performance every six months, in May 1988, November
1988 and May 1989, with a view to lowering the threshold for LCB in the
event of a substantial deterioration in procurement performance.
3.26     Any equipment purchased under the institutional support component
up to an amount of US$20,000 per purchase and a cumulative amount of
US$50,000 will be procured by shopping, requiring at least three price
quotations. Amounts in excess of these limits (not presently contemplated)
would be procured by local competitive bidding acceptable to IDA.
3.27     To advise ESF on refining its standard prices, it has agreed to
hire a consultant costing expert (para. 3.16-17); this is recommended as a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Review by IDA of Sub-proiect Appraisal and Procurement
3.28     Appraisal:  To avoid holding up implementation, and considering
that about 400 small contracts are involved, the Association will carry out
an ex post appraisal of those sub-projects with an ESF contribution of
between US$50,000 and US$250,000, at the timie reimbursement of a
mobilization advance is requested, and disburse against only those found to
meet the agreed criteria. To qualify for IDA financing, sub-projects with
an expected ESF contribution of more than US$250,000 will be submitted to
the Association for approval prior to the award of contract. Sub-projects



- 17 -
with an ESF contribution of less than US$50,000 will be reviewed only on a
sample basis by supervision missions in the field. The review before
disbursement will apply to about 502 of all sub-projects and about 852 of
the total project cost. For each sub-project, ESP has agreed to submit a
summary data sheet of key benefit/cost indicators, as the basis for the
Association's review (Attachment 3).
3.29     Procurement:  IDA will review bid evaluation and contracts costing
over US$250,000 after the contract is signed but before the first
corresponding reimbursement. Contracts for less than US$250,000 will be
reviewed after signing on a sample basis, by supervision missions in the
field. If any contracts are found unsatisfactory to the Association, any
relevant amount already disbursed will be deducted from subsequent
reimbursements.
Disbursements
3.30     The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed as follows:
(a) 802 of disbuisements by ESF against eligible sub-projects
submitted to the Association; and
(b) 100l of the costs of institutional support.
Sub-projects are considered eligible if they meet the targeting, appraisal
and procurement criteria agreed with IDA (paras. 2.3, 2.14 and 3.28, and
3.22-6 and 3.29, respectively). ESF has asked IDA to set up a revolving
fund (Special Account) for disbursements, which would be in an amount of
US$8 million. Each month after effectiveness ESF will submit a request for
replenishment against a statement of expenditures.
Accounts and Audits
3.31     ESF's accounts will be available for inspection by the Association
at any time. Annually audited accounts will be submitted to the
Association no later than f,-ur months following the end of ESF's fiscal
year. Auditing will continue to be done by an independent auditing firm
acceptable to the Association, and will include specific arrangements for
audit of statements of expenditures submitted for disbursements.
Reporting
3.32     ESF will send IDA quarterly progress reports by July 1, 1988, and
thereafter on the first day of each October, January, April and July until
the project is completed. The reports will set out (among other things)
its sources of funds, including co-financing, and applications of funds.
It will also submit a completion report on its 1988 and 1989 programs by
March 31, 1990.



- 18 -
Cost Recovery/Operation and Maintenance
3.33     ESF requires the same cost recovery arrangements for sub-projects
am those for other projects carried out by the sponsoring agency. Cost
recovery is explicitly required in the sub-project contracts for housing,
street paving, water supply, and sewerage projects. Certain health care
services funded by ESF also provide for partial cost recovery, commensurate
with the purchasing power of the low-income target population. Ultimate
responsibility for cost recovery lies with the sponsoring agencies. Their
institutional capacity to provide for successful management beyond the
investment period is one of the criteria of sub-project selection.
3.34     Experience under ESF I has shown that community groups may need
assistance in organizing and operating funds to finance operation and
maintenance of water supply and sewerage systems and irrigation canals.
Accordingly, ESF will encourage technical assistance and training for this
purpose as a sub-project category.
Monitoring and Feedback
3.35     Based on its experience with monitoring during 1987, ESF will
continue to conduct small surveys periodically during 1988 and 1989 to
provide feedback to ESF management on the appropriateness of sub-project
targeting and the efficiency of implementation, and to provide data needed
for progress reports and the completion report due to IDA. These surveys
will be carried out by ESF staff aided by local consultants (para. 3.17).
Institutional Sustainability
3.36     The finite life given to ESF raisps two questions:  (a) what will
happen aft?r 1989 to activities it will have supported? and (b) how can
the Governn.ent (and particularly the Ministries of Health and Education)
take advantage of ESF's successful experience subsequently? On the first
point, it is desirable that the sectoral ministries should be capable by
the end of 1989 of taking over responsibility for sub,projects within their
jurisdiction. In their present circumstances, however, many lack the
staff, budget or operating flexibility (such as the exemptions ESF enjoys
regarding salary levels and procurement) to play their role effectively.
In the spirit of preparing for an orderly transfer of responsibilities, ESF
attaches importance to consulting with the relevant ministries on
priorities for selecting sub-projects and arrangements for technical
supervision, so that the ministries feel at least some invol'ement and
proposals that are inconsistent with their policies and plans are weeded
out. Cne possible option for the longer term would be for the Government
to retain the ESF's professional team beyond 1989 dS the core personnel of
a development commission or fund for small-scale projects.
3.37     ESF has agreed to prepare a report setting out arrangements made
with ministries and other bodies who will take over responsibility for ESF-
supported activities by 1990. The report will also define options for
retaining whatever functions or personnel of ESF that are particularly
valuable to the economy, and make recommendations to the inter-agency
committee for decisions. ESF will send the Association an outline of the
report by March 31, 1988, for approval, and the report itself by July 31,
1988.



- 19 -
Women's Considerations
3.38     Work opportunities open to women in the formal sector of the
economy are limited, so many women have become dependent on food aid to
sustain their families. Many NGOs sponsor income-generating projects for
women, but these efforts often have little impact, because they are small-
scale, designed without regard for market demand, and are not co-ordinated
on a national level. ESF will make an effort to address women's economic
issues by promoting sub-projects that link nutritional and health services
with management training and credit. ESF will also encourage sub-project
sponsors to provide training to women in construction and maintenance in
self-help housing, drinking water and sewerage. The involvement of
beneficiaries involvement is crucial in ensuring the sustainability of
water, sewerage and irrigation projects. At present women, who have
primary interest in these projects, have not been sufficiently involved in
their construction, administration and maintenance.
3.39     Neither have women benefited greatly thus far by the employment
generated through ESF. Though women do hard manual labor, including
construction, it appears that they are rarely allowed to work under the
same terms as men. ESF will encourage contractors to give women the same
work opportunities as men and pay them equal wages.
3.40     ESF will give high priority in promoting social assistance sub-
projects to the needs of pregnant women, lactating mothers and their
infants. Suitable activities include targeted food supplements, nutrition
education, and the construction and operation of day-care centers and
health posts, including supplies of oral rehydration medicines and other
pharmaceuticals.
3.41     Credit sub-projects for women's groups:  ESF intends to develop a
limited portfolio, for purposes of tesLing, of credit operations providing
working capital to productive enterprises and informal retailing. Since
employment opportunities for low-income women aze limited, a particular
target could be women's co-operatives. This would channel assistance to
mothers and children in a way that would avoid the problem of dependency
inherent in unfocussed distribution of meals. It would also provide
experience that will later help in the formulation of larger projects to
promote the economic development of women. If co-operatives are offered
credit, attention should be paid to product (a) demand, (b) quality, and
(c) profit margins. Many women are likely to opt for traditional
occupations (e.g. textiles, foodstuffs) for which demand may be limited and
prices low. Some women's groups, however, have submitted sub-project
proposals for carpentry training and small-animal raising.
Environmental Impact
3.42     In general ESF's portfolio of sub-projects have a pro-
environmental impact. Of importance are the river-training and
reforestation efforts to prevent soil erosion, sewerage and sanitation
projects in rural and urban fringe areas, and training programs for new
settlers in tbe lowlands to teach sustainable agricultural methods. None
of the aub-projects reviewed to date has been found to have a negative
environmental impact.



- 20 -
IV. BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
Target Groups and Beneficiaries
4.1      ESF's target groups have been defined in para. 2.3 and 3.5, and
will remain essentially the same during the second phase.
Benefits
4.2       Benefits will be of four kinds:
(a) Sub-projects under the $59 million project are expected to
create about 21,000 man-years of direct employment and under ESF's entire
program 35-50,000 man-years, largely among those who would otherwise have
been under-employed;
(b) Abruit 400,000 social assistance beneficiaries will receive
food, improved health care, education and other services under the project
(about 600,000-950,000 under the entire program);
(c) The users of the new infrastructure and housing will enjoy
better sanitation, lower transport costs, and less erosion damage, etc.
yielding an economic return of better than 12Z.
(d) The Government will gain experience with an effEctive
mechanism for delivering development assistance to municipal ties and small
businesses and mobilizing grass-roots efforts. This experience could
subsequently be put to use by the Ministries of Health and Education, as
well as other branches of government.
4.3      As a check on the appraisal process, Association staff have
appraised 5-6 representative sub-projects. (Details are available in the
project file).
Risks
4.4      The methods adopted for selecting and implementing sub-projects
endeavor to strike a balance between providing rapid and responsive
assistance in a time of crisis, and ensuring that resources are allocated
where they can have the greatest multiplier effect. The risks associated
with excessive speed of response are that funds would be poorly used; they
would be diverted from other investments and inflationary pressures would
be increased. The consequence of too slow a response would be that the
sought-for alleviation of the social impact of adjustment would not be
achieved, thereby intensifying social pressures that might endanger the
economic reform program. In order to counter these risks, explicit
agreement has been reached on appraisal and implementation procedures, and
on technical assistance targeted at key phases of ESF's project cycle. The
six-monthly procurement reviews and comprehensive miu-project review are
aimed particularly at protecting the project against any detrimental
changes in ESF management.



- 21 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1      As conditions of effectiveness, ESF has agreed to:
(a) revise and up-date its appraisal manual, to cover separately
infrastructure and construction, production, construction and social
assiatance sub-projects (para. 3.21); and
(b) hire a consultant costing expert (para. 3.27)
5.2      ESF has agreed to submit to the Association by March 31, 1988, for
approval, the outline of a report on (a) arrangements to be made with
ministries and other agencies for them to assume responsibility for ESF-
funded activities after 1989, and (b) of options and a recommended course
of action for retaining functions and personnel of ESF in other public
agencies thereafter, the report itself to be submitted by July 31, 1988
(para. 3.37).
5.3      ESF has also agreed to conduct reviews of procurement performance
in May 1988, November 1988 and May 1989 (para. 3.25), and a comprehensive
mid-project review by November 30, 1988 (3.14).



- 22 -
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
IOLIVIA
SECOND DMEIGUCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
SOURCES OF FINANCING
1987      1988       1989       Total
- - - - - -(USS million) - -
1.    FINANCING ASSURED
1.1   In Money
National Treasury                   7.59                            7.59
USAID - PL 480                      2.03                            2.03
USAID - PL 480 II                   0.70                            0.70
IBD (FFAL)                                     5.00                 5.00
IBD Loan                                       4.00                 4.00
IDA I                               1.99       8.01                10.00
UNDP Tech. Asst.                    0.17       0.36                 0.53
Germany (Loan)                                 9.00                 9.00
Switzerland (Grant w/ IDA)                    10.97                10.97
Subtotal 1.1                       12.48      37.34                49.82
1.2   In Kind, to be Monetized
Netherlands, Fokker aircraft        0                               0
Netherlands, Philips light bulbs  0.03         0.90       0.33      1.26
Netherlands, Electric generator   0                                 0
Canada, wheat                       2.59       0.10                 2.69
Germany, goods & services           0                               0
US-AID Sugar Money                  0.40       1.00                 1.40
UK, Bal. Payments Support           0          0.27       1.76      2.03
Switzerland, Bal. Payments
Support                           0          0.24      1.63       1.87
Subtotal 1.2                        3.02       2.51      3.72       9.25
1.3   In Kind
Save the Children blankets          0.02                            0.02
Subtotal 1.3                        0.02                            0.02
TOTAL, Assured Financi,ig          15.52      39.85       3.72     59.09



- 23 -
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
lOLlVIA
SECOND DIERGENCY SOCILL FUND PROJECT
SOURCES OF FINANCING (continued)
1987    1988       1989      Total
-----------(US$ million)--------
2.    POTENTIAL FINANCING
2.1   In Money
IDA II                                        24.00      3.00      27.00
Canada '88                                     4.00       1.00      5.00
Netherlands '88                                4.00       1.00      5.00
UNDP Tech. Assist                               -         0.29      0.29
USAID F.A.E.                                   1.00                 1.00
National Treasury II                           9.67                 9.67
Subtotal 2.1                                  42.67      5.29      47.96
2.2   In Kind
USAID, Struct. Adj. System                     1.50       3.00      4.50
Italy, gabions                                 1.47      2.03       3.50
USAID, Sugar Money '88                         2.00                 2.00
Subtotal 2.2                                   4.97      5.03      10.00
TOTAL, Potential Financing                    47.64     10.32      57.96
GRAND TOTAL                        15.52      87.49      14.04    117.05
===m      ===mm....ssu s       ====MM



- 24 -
Attachment 2
Page 1
OVIA
SECOND EEROENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJCt
SUB-PROJECTS APPROVED IN 1967
A. Suamry by Project typ
Doat: 31 December 1987
--------     = = ----__                       :                                            =22===:
NO.          PROJECT TYPE                      CONTRACT AMOUNT        JOB-    BENEFICIARIES   DISBURSED TO DATE
(USS0U)    % OF TOTAL   MONTHS                      (US"")         U
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__-----------------------------.
1   A+N: Preschool children                    132                                                 e 
3   A.N: School-age children                    92                                2,422           44          s0
1   A+N: Others                                 96                                1,56e            0           e
3   S.S: Medical assistance                    2e7                               48,309           46          22
2   S+S: Basic health                          121                    361        65,66            34          26
10   CAP: Vocational training                   472                    836        16,646           33           7
1   CAP: Support to schools                     16                                2,760            7          44
1   CAP: Other training                         a                                6o,06
1   PRO: Working capital credit                256                                                             0
1   PRO: Production of food                    166                    156                                      O
1   C+V: Housing                                 7                                   36                        a
17   C+V: Construction in education             687                  1.665         2,668            12          2
6   C*V: Construction in Health                424                  1,217        37,000             4          1
1   C+V: Other Construction                    112                    249                                      6
49   SUB TOTAL Social Assistance              2,719         7        4,413       119,804           182          7
6    S+S: Medical Assistance                     97                     64        30,660           26          27
5    SUB TOTAL COMBINED                          97        6            64        30,6eo           26          27
3   S+S: Basic health                           36                    117                                      0
6   PRO: Production (counterpart)               12                     39                         11          93
1   PRO: Working capital credit                201                    763                                      o
7   PRO: Production of building materials  1,673                    2,613                        134           8
2   PRO: Other production                      964                     93                        267          28
65   INF: Drinking water A sewerage           4,742                 20,341                      1,476          31
96   INF: Urban improveent                    7,769                 37,6e7                      2,373          31
63   INF: Rural roads                         6,069                 46,862                      1,033          17
10   INF: Other infrastructure                  933                  3,794                        278          30
33   C*V: Housing                             4,889                 16,696                      1,987          41
47   C.V: Construction in education           1,634                  4,133         4,692          394          26
19   C+V: Construction in health                573                  1,773                        192          33
39   C.V: Other construction                  1,864                  7,760                        651          46
14   RDC: Irrigation                            990                  4,829                        268          26
8   RDC: Drainage                              334                  3,620                         94          28
14   RDC: Erosion control A forestation       1,268                  8,066                        409          32
2   RDC: Othore                                324                  1,660                         29           9
408  SUB TOTAL Employment/Income             34,144       92       158,900         4,692        9,784          29
462  TOTAL                                   36,966      160       163,367       155,696        9,993          27
AVERAGE PER PROJECT                         80                    364                         22
===__  3=__=r=3__3  =-            =-_-_3= =___ =__3=====                     ~                    ===_



- 25 -
Attachment 2
Page 2
BOLVIA
SECOND   1ENCf SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
SUB-hROJECTS APPROVED IN 1967
B. Sumor  by Leatlom
Date: 81 D.c.mb.r, 19S7
NO.      CONTRACT AMOUNT          JOB-     BENEFICIARIES       DIS9URSO 0 TO DATE      PWHSICAL
MONTHS                                               PROGRESS
(US36)   X OF TOTAL                                 (USUM)             x           (U)
BENZ           15         1,945          5        6,419             s6           909           51          24
COCHABAMBA     as         7,J58         26       J4,541          6, fm         2,548           85          28
CHUQUISACA     41         2,694          7        15,683                         864           11            7
LA PAZ        133        19,667         29       32,940        162,176        2,678            25           14
ORURO          35         2,135          6        11,544         2,422           417           20           13
PANDO           4           59"          2         1,6Hm                           6            0           O
POTOSI         44         4,901         13        26,6655          J1            940           17            9
SANTA CRUZ     64         8,42J          9        19,611         8,J12         1,961           81           24
TARIJA         86         8,662          I        15,666                       1,161           JS          29
VARIOUS         2           191          1            24        10,926                          *           O
__________________________________________________________________________________.
TOTAL         402        U, w9e        10O       103,3U 7      166,6Se         9, " 3          27           17
----------~~~~.                                                             s



- 26 -                                      Attachment 2
Page 3
BOLIVIA
SECOND  8C Y  SOCIAL FUID MOJECT
SUB-PROJECTS APPROVED IN 1967
C. Sloew                 " _l_mte   S
Date:  31 December 1987
STATUS                PROGRAd           NUM.          JOB-       BENEFICIARIES        AMOUNT         DISBURSED
PROJ.       MONTHS                           COWITTED         TO DATE
(US"")         (USSIo)
--.---.-------------------------------------------------------__-------------__----------------------------_.
Conditionally approved (Social Assist)               6          1,564            4,520              672
Conditionally approved (Employment/
Incom)               19         14,066                             3,208
SUBTOTAL CONDITIONALLY APPROVED                     25         15,669            4,620            3,880
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fully approved              (Social Assist)         26          2,283           25,137            1,482
Fully approved              (Combined)               1              8                                30
Ful ly approved             (Employmnt/
Income)              117         41,343                             8,492
SUBTOTAL FULLY APPROVED                           144          43,634           25,137           10,004
Under Normal
Impl ementat ion           (Empl oymnt/
Income)               14             586          89,697               56e             176
4             46           30,8e0               66               26
216         79,800            4,692           18,872            7,879
SUBTOTAL UNDER NORMAL IMPLEMENTATION              233          80,432          124.989           19.498            8.081
Under Implementation        (Employment/
PL480               Income)                 7         11.740                             1.682              488
SUBTOTAL UNDER IMPLEMENTATION, PL480                 7         11,740                             1,562              488
With potential              (Employmnt/
problems                   Incom)                 1           1,144                               178               75
SUBTOTAL WITH POTENTIAL PROBLEMS                     1          1,144                               178               76
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-----------------------------.



- 27 -
Attachment 2
Page 4
UOLIVI
SECOU EUNCY SOCIAL FU  PROJECT
SUB-PROJECTS APPtOVED IN 1987
C. S&mr, bvIIIl                    oe St
(cont nwued)
Date:   J1 December 111?
STATUS                      PROGRAM                MJM.              JOB-          BENEFICIARIES              AMOUNT             DISBURSED
PROJ.          MONTHS                                    COMMITTED            TO DATE
(US"")              (USU")
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__------------_----------------.
Disbursements
suspended                         (EmpI oyment/
Incom)                        2                889                                         58                    26
SUBTOTAL DISBURSEMENTS  SUSPENDED                                  2                889                                          so                   26
___________..________________________________________________________________________________________________.-
Contract  being                     (Employment/
cancelled)                        Income)                       6              1181_                                        443                    88
SUBTOTAL CONTRACT BEING  CANCELLED                                 6              1,181                                        443                    88
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-----------------------------.
Contract Cancelled                  (Employment/
Income)                       1                121                                         66
SUBTOTAL CONTRACT CANCELLED                                        1                121                                          66
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-----------------------------.
Completod                           (Emp I oyment/
(provisional)                      Income)                      26              S,164                                         863                  802
SUBTOTAL COMPLETED  (PROVISIONAL)                                 26              5,164                                        663                   802
Completed and acceptod              (Social Assist)                8                  40                  46e                     6                    6
(Emp l oyment/
Income)                     16              J.473                                         400                  426
SUBTOTAL COWPLETED  AND ACCEPTED                                  19             3,613                    4560                 46                    432
TOTAL-------------462--------16-------,887----------155,----------96--__---8-__--------6-------------9-----3.
TOTAL                                                           4S2            163 ,367             166 ,096               36, 960                9 ,993



- 28 -
Attachmnt 3
TM  of ?ioOects
To*al os_tmti value of project:
Total NI coutributton to projeot:
ReS.Oa:
Target Population:
Description of Project:
Duration of Project:
0
R.quiesti  A4en7y
Superviing 4Ze8@y
Taplea.stin .enoy:
Sumary of costa:
(tables 5 and 7 in request, specify foreign coaponent)
Number of man-months of employment geoorated:
Cost por man-sonth:
Economic rate of returs (if reloevant)
Other bonefit Indicatorms
(e.g. ausber of beuefiotarieo, qualitative description, k of road,
traffic density, sumber of bectars irrigated, aed4oal services
provided, quantity of potable water provided, eto.)
Cost recovery provision (if any):
Procuroeent method:



- 29 -                         Attachment 4
Page 1 of 11
Decree-Law Setting Up E.S.F. in its Present Form
Supreme Decree No. 21454
Office of the President of the Republic
Bolivia
WHEREAS:
The limited availability of funds has hindered the operation of the
Emergency Social Fund (ESF) established in accordance with Chapter I of
Supreme Decree 21137 of November 30, 1985, and the effectiveness of the
National Employment Committee (NEC) established in accordance with Chapter irr
of Supreme Decree 21316 of July 3, 1986;
rt is the responsibility of the Executive Branch to establish the
mechanisms needed to create employment conditions that will help alleviate the
current social crisis, as reflected in the unemployment situation and in
health and nutrition indicators, until the goals of the New Economic Policy
are achieved;
The institutional concept of the ESF and the NEC nee('- to be
reformulated to firmly establish them as public agencies with limited lives
and with the legal authority to use the technical and administrative structure
of the State for the performance of their specific functions of raising funds
and using those funds to finance projects offering a high social rate of
return ari maximum employment of labor and whose execution will take no more
than three years;



- 30 -                          Attachment 4
Page 2 of 1l
NOW TEREFORE:
VICTOR PAZ ESTENSSORC
CONSTITUTIONAL PRESIDENT OF TIE REPUBLIC
HEREBY ISSUES THE FOLLOWING DECREE
IN TEE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS:
CRAPTER l. Establistment and Cancellation
Article I
The EMERGENCY SOCrAL FUND (ESF) is established as a public entity
responsible to the Office of the President of the Republic, with full
juridical personality and administrative, technical and financial autonomy,
having the following purposes, responsibilities and duties:
(a) To receive the funds provided by the National Treasury from the
respective budgets. The initial amount of these funds, which shall serve
as start-up capital, shall be $b 30 billion for 1987;
(b) To raise funds in the form of grants from friendly governments,
international organizations and other Bolivian and foreign donors;
(c) To negotiate soft loans with terms that suit ESF's requirements and
objectives;
(d)  To accept and receive cash donations and to distribute ttem through the
agencies established for this purpose and already in operation;
(e) To administer the funds referred to in the foregoing paragraphs,
allocating them for che financing of programs and projects for immediate
or short-term implementation which meet the conditions required bv _SF.
Article 2
Chapters r and      of Supreme Decrees No. 21137 and 21316 of
November 30, L985 and I;  '. )6, respectively, are hereby cancelled.



- 31 -                        Attachmnt 4
Page 3 of 11
CHAPTER II. Organization and Administration
Article 3
ESF shall be managed by a Board of Directors composed of the
following five members: a chairman, an executive director and three members.
The President of the Republic shall chair the Board and shall appoint the four
other members. The executive director shall chair the Board in the absence or
at the request of the President.
Article 4
The Board of Directors shall devote its initial meetings to
approving the rules of procedure that shall govern its activities and to the
bylaws and operating regulations that shall be obligatory for project
formilation, presentation of projects to the Fund, project execution, the
administration of the funds assigned to each project, supervision of project
execution, repayments and ex ante and ex post evaluations and any other
relevant aspect that may affect the accomplishment of its objectives.
Article 5
ESF's rules of procedure shall be based on the following:
(a) Ordinary meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at least twice
a month;
(b) The executive director shall be the top executive and administrative
authority of ESF and shall work alongside the members, all on a full-time
and exclusive basis;
(c) The Board shall approve an appropciate internal organization structure
for ESF to enable it to accomplish its purposes as a coordination and
financing institution with a limited life, which shall under no
circumstances serve as an executing agency;



- 32 -                          Attachment 4
Page 4 of 11
(d)  ESF's operating budget will be prepared on thie basis of funds deriving
from ESF, whether Bolivian or foreign in origin. It shall not exceed the
equivalent of 1% of the funds available for a single year;
(e)  ESF may seek, request or accept technical assistance from any type of
humen resources, whether local or foreign, paid for by technical
assistance agencies or donors;
(f)  The Board shall approve ESF;s quarterly reports on its fundraising and or
the allocation of those funds, prior to their presentation to the Council
of Ministers for the latter's information and their subsequent
dissemination for the information of public opinion;
(g) The executive and operational staff of ESF shall implement the decisions
of the Board of Directcrs and effect the approved disbursements.
Article 6
The responsibilities of the Executive Director of ESF shall be as
follows:
(a) To render accounts to the donor organizations in accordance with
current legal requirements, in the case of funds provided locally,
and, in the case of foreign funds, in accordance with the provisions
of the relevant agreement, which may include supervision by the
donor organization or entity, performed by the organization itself
or by third parties;
(b) To render quarterly accounts on the source and application of the
funds secured and allocated, through publication in at least three
nationally circu atea newspapers;
(c)  To publish the annual audit report prepared by she Comptroller
General of t.e Republic, within 90 days of the closing of each
fiscal year;



- 33 -                          Attachmaet 4
Page 5 of il
(d) To transfer to the appropriate State agency all co-plated projects
for its admiaLstration and handling.
Article 7
ESU shall open an account with the Central Bank of Bolivia in the
name of "Emergency Social Fund," in which it shall deposit all payments by the
National Treasury and all funds deriving from donations, loans, trusts, etc.
It shall also open subaccounts identifying the source of each amount of
funds. The accounts shall be operated by means of checks signed by the
executive director and a member of the Board ot Directors, subject to the
rendering of accounts to the agency appointed by law.
CHAPTER r I. Responsibilities and Duties
Article 8
To ensure proper application of its resources, ESF shall have the
following responsibilities and duties:
r.   EMPLOYMENT GENERATION
A.   To identify and organize the execution of projects and programs with
a high rate of social return and maximum labor utilization;
B.   To finance, partially or totally, programs and projects that meet
the followitng conditions:
(a)  they can be started quickly;
(b) they can be completed within a maximum period of three years;
(c) they use Bolivian manpower to the extent that, including
administrative personnel, local manpower accounts either
directly or indirectly for at least 60% of che total cost;
(d)  their te :nnical specifications, supervision and mnonitoring are
entrust.-i    a State institution, which may not be tne direct
executin4 4tency;



- 34 -
Attachment 4
Page 6 of 11
(e)  their execution is the respousibility of public entities,
private entities, cooperatives, co-kwiity units, civic,
military or religious groups or asmnciations expressly
contracted for the purpose;
(f) the cost of individual contracts within a specific program or
project does not exceed US$750,000, the subdivision of project
works being permitted only in order to enable as many
construction groups or companies as possible to compete;
(g)  the implementing agency has executed a performance bond;
(h)  all disbursements are effected against a works progress chart
approved by the supervisor, advances being granted only up to a
maximum of 202 of the total contract amount against delivery of
a bank guarantee certificate.
C.   To encourage and finance projects in the following specific areas,
subject to the conditions set forth below:
(a)  construction of low-income housing, costing no more than
US$10,000 per unit;
(b) construction of health posts or health care facilities rn rural
or urban areas particularly affected by unemployment, providing
such works have not been included in that year's budget of the
Ministry of Health;
(c) construction and repair of school facilities by educational
establisnments in operation;
(d)  constructi3n, repair and maintenance of government offi:es Ln
small cromunities;



Attachment 4
Page 7 of 11
(s)  construction of the sewerage and drinking water supply system,
providing the use of the labor required falls within the scope
of ESF's activities, which requirement may be waived by express
decision of the Board of Directors;
(f)  construction. maintenance and upgrading of urban streets and
feeder and rural roads, not included in the regular operating
plans of the public sector.
D.   To arrange for the timely transfer of completed projects to the
public sector, into the hands of the appropriate authorities, who
shall assume responsibility for their administration, with the help
of the Directora;e of State Assets.
E.   To encourage and guide the participation of interested parties in
the execution of social pro,ects, such as community associacions,
heads of households, workers' groups or representatives or :ae
entities that are to administer the completed projects.
F.   To provide encouragement and provide material support for the
formation of group associations, cooperatives or organizations
interested in carrying out productive activities and reducing
unemployment.
II. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
A.   To help alleviate social conditions in those regions of the country
most seriously affected by the economic crisis and unemployment:
(a)  by identifying such regions;
(b)  by promoting and financing regional social and medicaL
assistance programs and also by providing temporary assistan:e
with nu:r : 3n programs targeted at marginal segments )  the
popuiattov%. ioth .rban and rural;



- 36 -
Attachmnt 4
PAge 8 of 11
(c) by requesting the involvement of public, religious, private and
cominity institutions in health and nutrition activities.
S.   To serve, following the issuing of this decree, as the only State
agency authorized to accept and receive cash donations not intended
for conversion into funding for the productive sector or allocated
for a specific purpose by the donor. ESF shall distribute the cash
donations to the health and nutrition programs as well as to the
employuent-generating programs;
C.   To coordinate the social assistance programs known as "food for
work" and, if necessary, participate in them.
III. EDUCATION                               ^
To provide grants for educational and technical instruction programs
for the training of skilled manpower and medium-level technical
experts.
IV. PRODUCTIVE SECTOR
A.   To provide State institutions with counterpart financing for
projects and programs for which foreign funding has already been
committed, subject to the following conditions:
(a) the organization in question has no funds of its own deriving
from royalties or sufficient other funds to cover its
counterpart requirements;
(b) the project is of high priority and has a high rate of social
return, .n addition to being compatible with the Fund's
ob,ectives;
(c) the reques~ does not exceed Z0 of the total prc ec: cost and
is not rorer than the equivalent of US31 million.



- 37 -
Attachment 4
vAO P                                  Page 9 of 11
B.   To provide public entities in the productive sector with bridging
financing for projects with financing comitted and disbursements in
progress, providing that:
(a) suthorization has been obtained from the financing agency;
(b) the "bridging" financing is for a period not exceeding six
m-nths, 202 of the total project cost or a maximum of
US$1 million;
(c) the project is socially justified by the direct or indirect use
of manpower, accounting for at least 35% of its total cost;
(d) it is compatible with the Fund's purposes.
Article 9
ESF may ask any public sector agency -- which may not turn down its
request -- for any technical assistance or cooperation it may need for the
preparation of projects and programs and the supervision or monitoring of
their execution.  It may, for the same purpose, contract the services of
non-State agencies, providing the cost does not exceed 2Z if the total projecc
cost.
Article 10
ESF may, at any time, using its own staff or those of third parties,
inspect the execution of the works it is financing and may check compliance
with the obligations assumed by State agencies in accordance with the
technical component of the project or program, together with the supervision
and monitoring of works, availing itself, if necessary, of the services of the
Comptroller General of the RepubLic.
Article Ll
Execution of the programs and projects funded by ESF shall be
covered by contracts  ..r'  ,Jed directly between the beneficiary group or



- 38 -
Attachment 4
Page 10 of 11
entity and the contractor or executing agency. ESF shall ensure that the
costs and prices of the works covered by the contract are correct and
.:easonable.
The regulations governing the procurement of goods and the
contracting out of works, as established by Decrees 15223 and 15192 of
December 30 and 15, 1977, shall not be applicable to these contracts, except
in the case of projects and programs of public institutions or enterprises
whose costs exceed the equivalent of US$500,000, which shall be governed by
those legal regulations.
CHAPTER IV. Effectiveness and Termination
Article 12
ESF shall remain in effect until December 31, 1989 and its
termination shall be subject to the following procedures:
(a) From December 31, 1989 until June 30, 1990, ESF's activities shall
be strictly limited to whatever is needed to transfer responsibility
for its outstanding activities to the competent State agencies.
(b) Any surplus funds not earmarked for any specific purpose, resulting
from non-use or recovery, shall be transferred to the National
Treasury, which shall be responsible for recovering funds on which
payment is outstanding as at December 31, 1989. Any funds earmarked
for specific purposes shall be transferred to the competent agencies.
(c)  On June 30, 1990 ESF shall issue the report of the audit corductee
by the Comptroller General of the Republic on its operations, and
the certificates issued by the donors of funds, confirming the
satisfactory ise .f tunds, if this has been agreed upon in the
respective axreeronts.



- 39 -                        Attachment 4
P&ge 11 of 11
The Minister of State for Planning and Coordination, the Miuister of
State for Finance end the Minister/Secretary General to the President of the
Republic shall be responsible for the implementation of this Suprem Decree.
Done in the Palace of Government in the city of La Paz on
November 28, 1986.
/s/ Victor Paz Estenssoro
Other signatories
Jorge Valdez Aaez, Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs and Worship
Fernando Barthelemy Martinez
Luis FernAndo Valle Quevedo
Juan L. Cariaga Osorio
Gonzalo Sinchez de Lozada
Roberto Gisbert Beru:idez
Enrique Ipifna Melgar
Jaime Balderrama, Acting Minister of Transport and Communications
Carlos Perez Guzman
Walter Rios Gamboa
Jaime Villalobos Sanjinez
Alejandro A. Pacheco, Acting Minister of Rural Affairs
Carlos Morales Landivar
Franklin Anaya Vasquez
Juan Carlos Duran Saucedo
Herman Antelo Laughlin
Fernando Caceres Diaz
Antonio Tovar Pierola.
This is a true copy of the original
/sl Hernan Murillo
Director of Records
Office of the President of the Republic



- 40 -
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
ESF'S Role in Development Strategy for Social Sectors
A. Health and Nutrition
1.       The Government's nutrition and health sector policies emphasize
developing a cost-effective package of basic health care (BHC) geared to health
promotion, disease prevention and curative care preferably in ambulatory
settings and including the first (and lowest) level of hospitalization. The
package includes nutrition surveillance; child growth monitoring; health,
nutrition and sex education; and safe water supply and sanitation. To maximize
impact on health status in the short and medium term, BHC development will
concentrate on mothers, infants and children of poor families living in
periurban areas and rural areas adjacent to urban centers, access to whom
presents less formidable physical and cultural barriers.
2.       Government strategy contemplates a reorientation of investments from
new construction tr^ rehabilitation and reequipping of existing services based on
an inventory of physical facilities to be carried out during 1988 and an
analysis of priorities. Very likely, this reorientation will deemphasize the
role of hospitals, especially at the second and tertiary (and most complex and
expensive) levels of care. Other elements of the strategy are: (a) improving
management and the quality of support services (staff training, management
information, logistics and maintenance); (b) introducing a comprehensive cost
recovery system; and (c) carrying out priority sub-sector studies.
3.       In the short term, the strategy focuses on:
-     measures having a rapid and substantial impact on health status
which can be implemented within existing management constraints; and
-     developing alternative, and more cost-effective institutional
mechanisms for increasing the flow of aid to the poor.
The short-term component of Government's strategy will be implemented under the
ESF II. Specifically, it includes: (a) supporting nationwide food
fortification programs to reduce the incidence of goiter and anemia among the
poor; and (b) providing technical assistance and financial to NGOs operating in
the social sectors through NGO-designed multiyear development programs. In view
of other donors' participation in this field, the above vehicles would also
provide the opportunity for rapidly expanding co-financing and the total amount
of resources available to the social sectors.
4.       The short-term component of the strategy would open the way for a
secona, medium and long-term (beyond 1990), development phase during which
efforts would be concentrated on developing the organization and management
capabilities of both public and private sector agencies; and on increasing the
financial self-sufficiency of service providers. The key elements would be:
(a) strengthening the decentralized regional health care services (beginning
with the departments of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz) and, within the
regions, better integrating NGO health and nutrition improvement programs; and
(b) increasing reliance on user fees. IDA is in the process of preparing a
project which would support the Government's nutrition and health care strategy
4n the medium and long term.



- 41 -
Attachment 5
Page 2 of 2
B. Education
1.       The educational conditions in Bolivia have been among the most
deficient in the hemisphere and have deteriorated in recent years under the
impact of lower average per capital incomes, reduced teacher salaries, and a
disparity in urban-rural educational expenditures. Educational statistics
attest to the problem: 37% of the population is illiterate, 70% of 1st grade
rural students drop out of school in the primary grades as compared to 23% of
their urban counterparts; students, particularly in rural areas, have
practically no access to textbooks or instructional materials, since only 3-5%
of the Ministry of Education's budget is spent on non-salary items. Teachers
are trained in normal schools with outdated curricula and few resources ; they
are, on the average, paid twice the GDP (whereas in other countries they are
paid two to 11 times the GDP), are assigned to schools by central administration
on the basis of deficient statistical information, are practically not
accountable to local administration, and have high rates of absenteeism. As a
result, the quality of instruction in Bolivian schools is considered low.
2.       In December 1987, the Government announced the following long-term
goals: (a) extending elementary school coverage to 100% of the school-age
population by the year 2000; (b) eradicating illiteracy by the year 2000; (c)
decentralizing administration by shifting ministerial functions to the country's
departments; and (d) improving the instructional quality of public education.
In order to achieve these goals, the Minister of Education has set out a medium-
term strategy of: (a) improving teacher craining through updating the curricula
of normal schools and offering in-service education; (c) improving teacher
remuneration and rationalizing the use of teachers; (d) building and repairing
classrooms in order to meet educational demands by the year 2000; (e) promoting
equit) between rural and urban education; (f) printing reasonably priced
textbooks; (g) strengthening the adult formal and non-formal education system.
In the short term, the government intends to lay the basis for future
educational development by: (a) decentralizing educational decision-making and
(b) developing a school mapping system. The Government has recognized the
importance of needs assessment, coordination between infrastructure and
services, and long-range planning in order to fulfi]l long-term goals. For this
reason, construction and repairs will only be undertaken when schools have
teachers assigned to them and adequate numbers of students.
3.       The Emergency Social Fund, through its social assistance and
infrastructure programs, is implementing, on a small scale, various aspects of
the medium-term strategy. Subproject proposals have thus far been accepted for
(a) clearly needed school construction and repairs, (b) printing of textbooks to
benefit rural students, (c) formal adult education, (d) non-formal adult
training for specific skills of demonstrated demand, and (e) health- and
nutrition-related adult education to remedy the deficient health status of the
country. The ESF administration will further ascertain that subprojects
approved in the future will conform to the policies and priorities set by the
Government in the education sector.



- 42 -
Attachment 6
DOCUMENTS iN PROJECT FILE
1.     ESF Procedures Guide ('Documentos Basicos del F.S.E.1).
2.     ESF Appraisal Manual (2Guia del Evaluador').
3.     Administrative Manual ('Manual de Normas, Procedimientos y Control
de Tesoreria').
4.     Catalog of Unit Prices ("Catalogo de Precios Unitarios').
S.     Detailed list of subprojects approved or under implementation at
the end of 1987.
6.     Report of subproject-level monitoring study, January 1988.
7.     Preliminary Report of Macro-Level Monitoring Study ('Modelo para
Medir el Impacto Macro-Economico de los Proyectos del Fondo Social
de Emergencia"), UDAPE, January 1988.
8.     IDA staff evaluations of representative subprojects.
9.     Terms of reference for technical assistance funded under the
project.



BOLIVIA
SECOND EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
E.S.F. Organization Chart
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
President of Republic
Executive Director       STAFF DEPARTMENTS
3 External Directors
Exteral Audit_
|Internal Audit
|       L     Pub~~~lic Relations
|Depuy Exeutive Directo
-  r    Data Processing
Monitoring
Technical Committee
(Dept. Direc'ors & Lawyer
LINE DEPARTMENTS
Fund Raising            Identification              ppra                  Supervision             Administration
& Preparation             Apaal& Coordinatiorn                             & Treasury
DIVISIONS                                                        FIELD OFFICES
Employment-Gen-         Employment-Gen-
erating Projects        erating Projects I     -  Cochabamba
-  Santa Cruz
Social             Employment-Gen-
Assistance           erating Projects 11         Potosi
Sucre
q  Food for Work  |    j    Social             -S
Food forWorkAssistance  Tarija                                     no
_   Credit Lines
December 16. 1987                                                                                   kSr/w4 1329



S
MAP SECTION



IBRD 2051
B P A Z I LA-                                                                       
BPAZIL                                                      ~~~~~~BO0LI VI A
" --N,1:F*rtow                                                                        2ROADS
T. Ro rono,x                                                                                                                    S.oondary
e_~~~~~~~~~~~~~C,1, Msntr ,u 'Iaor ----------
P-0,  ,<,                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F.rry Lir,e,
'  P  A"N              D                                                                                                R. \- ,es
N.tio..l Copirol
-rr             *                                                                                                                       Deparirnrn &irurdwries
Ay_   y           \          Y                                                -    -  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nternotlnoI tsQrIdariei
{Pexib    o       ttt  4.  S ,                                                                                 Altip'ono
P  E  R  U<                   t                = /w"    Smt.AmLvied
-t SrA,ro 4R*bzs IIznto Roso  B    E    N    I      t-                       q             (   °    50   '00    so  200   250
Coio,o  ,    yon .o   .                                                                       F.  '               o *
A,, crrso on,    A                                     Pow l.  R$ ,   A
,iqW                             -               Ch' nrorir    t ~ rA.                 i t)- hODRlO#                                         I j
14X                                                                                                                                   B   R    A    Z    I  L s 
\  S  --  W , ,, ,,_ ... aS~~~~~e(~0* SA N                                                        A 
) '°         \~- O. R. U                          C4p M   \                    SAN. ACRU-  > e
mw.w ~   ~                                                           WI)                                                                                 8  9  C*cQ.o",,
~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Pa,,AJ   D                                                                                -- ---------- ict c! i
SW. '. 'tCr/                        PARAGUAY                            '8-.  20'
'  LAu   C H U4~U I S APr~    JC -                                      L       - Z
le,og_e} VI>"cnc                       I            ".                     : 1                                    J; 3BLIVZ         |
0010%S   C0 Hoc Iorro l  E. i~ P-     rr*                              r,)           A         A      j)
0                                                 SANTA CRUi  i   |            °*.oyRCENTNA7/
To00itowetaq,           t                     _5 A   R       G   E  Ng  TIN              A        \.                                 ; (  ..g Ju&
~~ {                                 ir       \  Qnd BuericsAq~~~~~~~s 8~~ reei SErirorrcoeon                                              Of ,R ,,    8
La FIWM ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     4UAs



