Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1882 BO
(Second Emergency Social Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 4, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1882 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1988, between the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the   Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from bilateral and multilateral aid and 
development organizations (hereinafter "Additional Financiers") loans and grants 
(hereinafter "Additional Funding") to assist in expanding the activities of the 
Emergency Social Fund (as hereinafter defined) on the terms and conditions to be set 
forth in agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the Additional 
Financiers;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General  Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement, with the  modification that the last 
sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ESF" or "Emergency Social Fund" means the Emergency Social Fund  (Fondo 
Social de Emergencia) established by the President of the Republic of Bolivia as a 
public entity with full juridical personality, by Chapter I of Decreto Supremo No. 
21137 of November 30, 1985 and revised by Decreto Supremo No. 21456 of November 28, 
1986 of the Borrower;
(b)
"Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements" means the contractual arrangements 
to be entered into between the Borrower and ESF pursuant to  Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to such contractual arrangements;
(c)
"SA Subproject" means a social assistance subproject, including,  inter 
alia, training, health, educational support, nutrition, food supplement, and 
vaccination subprojects for Beneficiaries, to be financed in  part out of the proceeds 
of the Credit;
(d)
"SI Subproject" means a social infrastructure subproject, including, 
inter alia, drinking water, sewerage, school construction and repair, health post 
construction, housing, and cultural subprojects for Beneficiaries, to be financed in 
part out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(e)
"EI Subproject" means an economic infrastructure subproject, including, 
inter alia, rural roads maintenance and drainage, street paving,  urban improvement, 
erosion control, reforestation, irrigation and drainage,  and other construction 
subprojects for Beneficiaries to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the 
Credit;
(f)
"SP Subproject" means a production activity subproject, including, inter 
alia, working capital credit, small manufacturing subprojects, and cooperative 
subprojects for Beneficiaries, to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the 
Credit;
(g)
"Subprojects" means collectively, EI Subprojects, SP Subprojects, SI 
Subprojects and SA Subprojects; "Subproject" means any one of such Subprojects;
(h)
"Beneficiaries" means residents of Bolivia adversely affected by the 
economic conditions prevailing since 1980 or by the economic  stabilization measures 
taken by the Borrower, including, inter alia,  unemployed persons from both the 
private and public sector, their families, and those persons with critical nutritional 
or health needs; "Beneficiary"  means any one of such Beneficiaries;
(i)
"Implementing Entities" means any of the governmental and 
non-governmental entities which propose to carry out or are carrying out, a 
Subproject; "Implementing Entity" means any one of such Implementing Entities;
(j)
"Supervising Entities" means any of the governmental and non-governmental 
entities which propose to supervise, or are supervising, the carrying out of 
Subprojects; "Supervising Entity" means any one of such Supervising Entities;
(k)
"Subproject Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between ESF 
and an Implementing Entity and, when appropriate, a Supervising Entity, for purposes 
of carrying out a Subproject, as the same may be  amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Subproject Agreement;
(l)
"ESF Procedure Guide" means the guide (Guia de Procedimiento)  issued by 
ESF for processing and monitoring Subprojects provided by the  Borrower to the 
Association in December, 1987;
(m)
"ESF Appraisal Manual" means the manual (Guia del Evaluador)  issued by 
the ESF, setting forth criteria for evaluating and approving funding for Subprojects 
Page  3
provided by the Borrower to the Association in December 1987;
(n)
"MINPLAN" means the Ministry of Planning and Coordination (Ministerio de 
Planeamiento y Coordinacion) of the Borrower;
(o)
"Interagency Committee" means the committee which was established 
pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the First ESF Credit Agreement;
(p)
"Organizational Chart" means the chart detailing key management personnel 
positions for ESF provided by the Borrower to the Association on December 16, 1987;
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(r)
"First ESF Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit Agreement, 
dated July 31, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association, with respect to the 
first Emergency Social Fund Project (Credit No. BO-1829).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to nineteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree, to  be made, in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and  conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1990 or such  later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of  the Development Credit Agreement to the 
respective dates on which amounts  shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind  imposed 
by, or in the territory  of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the  currency specified in 
this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 1998 and  ending October 15, 2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment  payable on October 15, 2007 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the  Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the  Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association  may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant  element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so  requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through ESF, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative and  managerial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into subsidiary contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Association, with ESF providing, inter alia, for:
(i)
the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit on a grant basis to ESF 
for purposes of carrying out the Project; and
(ii)
the obligation of ESF to carry out the Project in accordance with 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, including, 
without limitation, carrying out the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Contractual 
Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the  Borrower and the 
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive such Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause ESF, until Project completion:
(a)
to keep all of the  key personnel positions detailed on the 
Organizational Chart, including those at the Director through the Executive  Director 
level, filled with employees possessing experience and qualifications acceptable to 
the Association, and to consult with the Association with respect to replacement of 
any such key personnel prior to any such replacement; and
(b)
to employ any fixed-term staff financed in whole or in part out  of the 
proceeds of the Credit with persons having qualifications and  experience, and on 
terms and conditions of employment, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain the Interagency Committee until completion of the Project;
 
(b)
cause the Interagency Committee to monitor or supervise the monitoring of 
Page  5
the socio-economic effects of Subprojects; and
(c)
cause ESF and the Interagency Committee to carry out, with the assistance 
of MINPLAN, the study referred to in Part B.2 (i) of Schedule 2 of the First ESF 
Credit Agreement under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish 
the results of such study, by March 31, 1988,  to the Association for its review and 
comment.
Section 3.05. (a) Without any limitation to or restriction upon its  other 
reporting requirements under the General Conditions and this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall, and shall cause ESF:
(i)
to exchange views with the Association, at all such times as the 
Association shall reasonably request, but in any event on or about 
November 30, 1988, with regard to the progress of the Project and 
Sub-projects, the management of the operations of ESF, the 
performance of personnel, including key personnel, of ESF, the 
performance by ESF of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Contractual Arrangements, and the performance by ESF, Implementing 
Entities and Supervising Entities of their respective obligations 
under Subproject Agreements, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit; and
(ii)
to exchange views with the Association, at all such times as the 
Association shall reasonably request, but in any event on or about 
May 30, 1988, and at six-month intervals thereafter until Project 
completion, with regard to the procurement practices and 
procedures being followed by ESF, Implementing Entities or 
sponsors of Subprojects in connection with awarding contracts.
(b)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause ESF, based upon recommendations made 
by the Association following any of the exchanges of views referred to in the 
preceding subparagraph (a), within ninety days after receiving such recommendations, 
either to revise and update the Project and its implementation in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association  or to reach agreement with the Association on a plan 
of action for such revising and updating. The matters to be included in such revising 
and updating, shall include, as appropriate, the allocation of resources, the granting 
of further commitments, the management of ESF's operations, the staffing, including 
key personnel, of ESF, the procedures for approving  Subprojects, the implementation 
of Subprojects, the supervision and monitoring of Subprojects, Implementing Entities 
and Supervising Entities,  the procurement practices of ESF, Implementing Entities and 
sponsors of  Subprojects, and other matters related to the Project.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to or restriction upon its other reporting 
requirements under the General Conditions and this Agreement, the Borrower shall and 
shall cause ESF to:
(a)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes, or 
threatens to interfere, with the progress of the Project and Subprojects, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance of ESF  of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements, or the  performance of ESF, 
Implementing Entities and Supervising Entities under Subproject Agreements;
(b)
provide by July 1, 1988 and thereafter by the first day of each October, 
January, April and July, reports of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the progress of obtaining  Additional Funding, other 
sources of funds, the application of funds and the progress of implementing the 
Project and Subprojects; and
(c)
provide by March 31, 1990, a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the operations of ESF during the 1988 and 
1989 calendar years.
Section 3.07. (a) The Association and the Borrower agree that: (i) the Borrower 
shall cause ESF to request approval of, or authorization for withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the Credit with respect to, Subprojects in a  prompt, timely and 
expeditious manner; and (ii) the Association shall promptly review and respond to such 
requests referred to in subparagraph (i) of this Section within a reasonable period of 
time.
(b)
Any Subproject (i) whose cost does not exceed the equivalent of $250,000; 
(ii) which was approved by the Association in accordance with the First ESF Credit 
Page  6
Agreement; and (iii) which was approved by ESF after  January 1, 1988, shall be deemed 
approved by the Association for purposes of this Agreement.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause ESF, the Interagency  Committee, or 
any other appropriate agency or department of the Borrower,  no later than July 31, 
1988, to furnish to the Association a report, in  form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association: (i) describing arrangements made or to be made among ESF, appropriate 
ministries and other agencies or entities of the Borrower, and appropriate 
non-governmental organizations, if any, for the purpose of having such ministries, 
agencies, entities and organizations, as the case may be, assume responsibility for 
the various activities and functions of ESF; (ii) defining options for retaining as an 
organized unit selected functions or personnel of ESF that are considered of special 
value to the Borrower's economy and are not readily replaced; and (iii) make 
recommendations to the Interagency Committee.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause ESF, the Interagency Committee, or any other 
appropriate agency or department of the Borrower, no later than March 31, 1988, to 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comment, an outline of or terms of 
reference for the report referred to in the immediately preceding subparagraph (a), 
such outline or terms of reference  to be satisfactory to the Association, and shall 
exchange views with the Association on such outline or terms of reference.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, or shall cause ESF, to maintain separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of ESF and the  operation, resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Project and each Subproject.
(b)
The Borrower shall, or shall cause ESF, to:
 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
of ESF, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles  
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, or 
shall cause ESF, to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last disbursement 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
Page  7
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause ESF:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make  other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial and managerial practices under the  supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its offices, machinery, 
equipment, vehicles, and other property, and from time to time, promptly as  needed, 
to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in  accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and managerial practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ESF will 
be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Contractual  Arrangements or 
under Subproject Agreements;
(b)
Decreto Supremo No. 21456 of November 28, 1986 of the Borrower shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of ESF to perform any of its  obligations under the Subsidiary 
Contractual Arrangements or under Subproject Agreements;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ESF, or for the  suspension of 
its operations, other than in accordance with the provisions  for closing the 
operations of ESF set forth in the Decreto Supremo referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section; or
(d)
the Borrower or ESF shall have failed to revise and update the Project or 
reach agreement with the Association on a plan of action to that  effect, pursuant to 
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (i) any event specified in paragraph (b) or 
(d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a period of sixty 
days; and (ii) any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements have been entered into 
between the Borrower and ESF;
(b)
that ESF has revised and updated in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, the ESF Appraisal Manual, so as to include, among other   things, 
separate provisions for Subprojects in the areas of infrastructure  and construction, 
production, and social assistance; and
Page  8
(c)
that ESF has employed or retained as a consultant a costing expert  for 
the purpose of improving and refining its standard prices.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be  included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary 
Contractual Arrangements have been duly authorized or ratified by, and are legally 
binding upon ESF and the Borrower in accordance with their terms.
Section 7.03. The date of June 2, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar No. 582
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
MINFIN
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
With a copy to:
Executive Director
Fondo Social de Emergencia
Edificio Banco Central
Piso 12, Casilla 23506
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
3528 FSETEL-BV
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day, month and year 
first above written.
Page  9
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Luis Paz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  SA Subprojects              1,630,000       80% of amounts
     under Part A.1                              disbursed by ESF
     of the Project                              for each Sub-
                                                 project
(2)  SI Subprojects              5,850,000       80% of amounts
     under Part A.2                              disbursed by
     of the Project                              ESF for each Sub-
                                                 project
(3)  EI Subprojects              7,310,000       80% of amounts
     under Part A.3                              disbursed by ESF
     of the Project                              for each Sub-
                                                 project
(4)  SP Subprojects              1,460,000       80% of amounts
     under Part A.4                              disbursed by ESF
     of the Project                              for each Sub-
                                                 project
(5)  Institutional                 850,000       100%
     support, includ-
     ing consultants'
     services, equipment
     and salaries,
     travel costs and
     training for fixed
     term staff, under
     Part B of the
     Project
(6)  Unallocated                 1,900,000
     TOTAL                   SDR19,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and unless otherwise agreed 
by the Association, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
Page  10
1,900,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after January 1, 1988;
(b)
expenditures for any Subproject for which the estimated financing to be 
provided by ESF is the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and less than  the equivalent of 
$250,000, unless the Association shall have received the information set forth in the 
Appendix to Schedule 4 in respect of such Subproject and shall have authorized 
withdrawal from the Credit Account in respect of such Subproject; and
(c)
expenditures for a Subproject for which the estimated financing to be 
provided by ESF is the equivalent of $250,000 or more, unless the Subproject has been 
approved by the Association prior to signing the  relevant Subproject Agreement and 
the Association shall have received the  information set forth in the Appendix to 
Schedule 4 in respect of such Subproject.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) carrying out a 
program of employment generation and social assistance in order to meet the needs of 
those persons adversely affected by economic  recession and economic adjustment and 
stabilization measures; (ii) strengthening the management, operations and 
implementation capacity of  ESF; (iii) mobilizing other donors to assist in the 
financing of the  foregoing objectives; and (iv) assisting the Borrower in reforming 
its education and health sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
 
1.
SA Subprojects
 
Financing and carrying out of social assistance subprojects, including,  inter 
alia, training, health, educational support, nutrition, food supplement, and 
vaccination subprojects to benefit unemployed, displaced and low-income persons 
residing in Bolivia.
2.
SI Subprojects
 
Financing and carrying out of social infrastructure subprojects,  including, 
inter alia, drinking water, sewerage, school construction and repair, health post 
construction, housing, and cultural subprojects to benefit unemployed, displaced and 
low-income persons residing in Bolivia.
3.
EI Subprojects
 
Financing and carrying out of economic infrastructure subprojects, including, 
inter alia, rural roads maintenance and drainage, street paving,  urban improvement, 
erosion control, reforestation, irrigation and drainage,  and other construction 
subprojects to benefit unemployed, displaced and  low-income persons residing in 
Bolivia.
4.
SP Subprojects
 
Financing and carrying out of production activity subprojects, including, inter 
alia, working capital credit, small manufacturing, and cooperative production 
subprojects to benefit unemployed, displaced and low-income persons residing in 
Bolivia.
Part B:
Institutional Support
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to ESF and Implementing Entities for  purposes 
of identifying, preparing, appraising, monitoring and implementing Subprojects.
2.
Employment and maintenance, including travel and training, by ESF of fixed-term 
staff.
3.
Acquisition, utilization and maintenance by ESF of office equipment, including 
computers.
Page  11
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 1990.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
Local Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Items or groups of items to be procured under Part A of the Project, including 
civil works and goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more per 
contract and with respect to which competitive bidding  is feasible, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, to 
suppliers selected by the sponsor of a Subproject and eligible under the "Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development in May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable within each Subproject, contracts for civil works or 
for goods shall be grouped in packages for purposes of soliciting bids.
3.
The amount of $250,000 referred to in the above paragraph 1 of this Section I, 
Part A, may be adjusted by the Association by notice to the Borrower, within sixty 
days of any of the exchanges of views referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this 
Agreement.
4.
Except as provided below in Part C, entitled "Local Shopping", goods to be 
procured under Part B of the Project, shall be procured under contracts  awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, to  suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures  acceptable to the Association.
Part B:
Direct Contracting
 
1.
Items or groups of items to be procured under Part A of the Project, including 
civil works and goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 per 
contract, shall be procured by direct contracting, on the  basis of the standard 
prices established by ESF and approved by the  Association, from suppliers eligible 
under the Guidelines and, at the  option of the Implementing Entity of a Subproject, 
either nominated by such Implementing Entity or selected by such Implementing Entity 
on the basis of local competitive bidding.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no contractor shall be awarded 
any contract pursuant to this Part B, if the amount of such contract, when added to 
the aggregate amount of all prior contracts financed by the Association and awarded 
pursuant to ESF's standard price procedure directly or indirectly to such contractor, 
would exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
Part C:
Local Shopping
 
Goods to be procured under Part B of the Project, up to the equivalent  of 
$20,000 per contract and not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 in the  aggregate, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines in accordance with procedures  acceptable to the Association. To the extent 
practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in packages for purposes of 
soliciting price quotations.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works and goods estimated  to 
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not apply to 
contracts  on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such  contracts shall be 
Page  12
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower, ESF, Implementation Entities and  Supervising 
Entities in carrying out the Project and Subprojects, the Borrower shall cause to be 
employed consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to  the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
I.
ESF Operating Procedures
 
1.
Proposals for Subprojects may be initiated or sponsored by governmental and 
non-governmental entities, community and other groups. Proposals for  Subprojects 
shall identify the type of Subproject, describe the works or  goods to be financed, 
and identify the Implementing Entity, Supervising  Entity and Beneficiaries.
2.
ESF shall process the proposals for Subprojects received in accordance with the 
ESF Procedure Guide. The ESF Procedure Guide shall be modified from time to time, on a 
basis and in a manner acceptable to the Association, and  taking into consideration 
the results of the study referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule 2 of the First ESF Credit 
Agreement.
3.
ESF shall:
 
(i)
identify and promote the development of Sub-projects;
 
(ii)
screen and appraise Subprojects;
 
(iii)
identify additional sources of funds and obtain Additional Funding 
to expand the number of Sub-projects financed by ESF; and
(iv)
contract for and monitor the implementation of Subprojects.
 
4.
ESF shall evaluate Subprojects in accordance with the ESF Appraisal Manual. The 
ESF Appraisal Manual shall be modified from time to time on a basis and in a manner 
acceptable to the Association.
5.
ESF shall estimate the value of each Subproject, such estimated value to be 
reasonable and acceptable to the Association.
6.
ESF shall approve each Subproject on the basis of criteria acceptable to the 
Association and shall submit to the Association:
(i)
each Subproject for which the estimated financing to be provided 
by ESF is the equivalent of $250,000 or more, for review and 
approval by the Association, prior to entering into the relevant 
Sub-project Agreement for such Subproject; and
(ii)
each Subproject for which the estimated financing to be provided 
by ESF is the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than the 
equivalent of $250,000, for review, and authorization by the 
Association to withdraw funds from the Credit Account with respect 
to such Subproject; provided, however, that this subparagraph (ii) 
shall not apply in respect of any Subproject approved by the 
Association pursuant to the First ESF Credit Agreement.
The information that shall be provided to the Association with respect to each 
Subproject shall be acceptable to the Association and shall include  at least the 
information set forth in the Appendix to this Schedule.
7.
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to written agreements between ESF, the 
Implementing Entity, Supervising Entity and other relevant parties, under terms and 
Page  13
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including inter alia, providing for the 
following obligations and rights:
(i)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(ii)
the requirement that: (A) the goods and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance 
with Schedule 3 of this Agreement; and (B) such goods and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(iii)
the right of ESF to inspect, by itself, or jointly with 
representatives of the Association, if the Association shall so 
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents;
(iv)
the right of ESF to obtain all such information as ESF or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing, the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the Subproject;
(v)
the right of ESF to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Implementing Entity and Supervising Entity to use the proceeds of 
the Credit for the Sub-project upon failure by any such Entity to 
perform any of its respective obligations under its Sub-project 
Agreement with ESF; and
(vi)
the obligation of the Implementing Entity and Supervising Entity 
to report on the progress of implementing the Subproject.
II.
Terms and Conditions of Subprojects
 
1.
Subprojects shall be financed on the following terms and conditions:
 
(i)
financing may be on a grant or loan basis;
 
(ii)
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit shall not exceed 80% 
of the actual disbursements of ESF for each Subproject; and
(iii)
a mobilization advance of 20% of the estimated value of the 
Subproject may be paid upon signing of the Subproject Agreement. 
Subsequent payments thereafter may be made on the basis of a 
percentage, acceptable to the Association, of works completed or 
goods procured, and shall be evidenced by written documentation 
thereof. A retention of 10% of the estimated value of the 
Subproject may be paid upon Completion of the Subproject, as 
evidenced by a certificate of completion, acceptable to the 
Association.
2.
SEI Subprojects under Categories 31, 33, 34, 35, 41, 42, 43, 51, 61, 62, 63, 64 
and 65 as set forth in the ESF Appraisal Manual and which have an estimated value of 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, shall be eligible for  financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit only if an economic rate of return of at least 12% can be 
demonstrated, calculated on a basis and using criteria acceptable to the Association.
APPENDIX TO SCHEDULE 4
Key Indicators for Subproject Review by the Association
     Type of Project:
     Total Estimated Value of Subproject:
     Total ESF Contribution to Subproject:
     Region:
     Location of Project:
Page  14
     Target Population:
     Description of Project:
     Duration of Project:
     Requesting Agency:
     Implementing Entity:
     Supervising Entity:
     Summary of costs:
     Number of man-months of employment generated:
     Total cost per man-month:
     Economic rate of return (if relevant):
     Other benefit indicators:
     (for example, number of beneficiaries, qualitative description, kilometers of 
road, traffic density, number of hectares irrigated, medical services provided, 
quantity of potable water provided, etc.)
     Cost recovery provision:
     Procurement method:
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to  the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw  from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts  as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not  exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for  eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Page  15
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or  at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association  when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining  
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii)  was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or 
refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account 
and immediate cancellation.
