SWEDISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1882 BO
Development Grant Agreement
in respect of the
Second Emergency Social Fund Project
(Credit Number 1882-BO)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDON OF SWEDEN
Dated å     £< ..c, 1988


﻿DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   1988, between REPUBLIC OF
BOLIVIA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Administrator)  acting as Administrator of a Grant provided
by the GOVERNMENT OF THE KIÑGDOM OF SWEDEN (Sweden).
WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the assistance of Sweden
in the financing of the Second Emergency Social Funj Pkoject (the
Project) described in the Schdule -2 to the Development Credit
Agreement dated'March 4, 1988 (the Development Credit Agreement),
between the Recipient and the International Development
Association, acting'in its own capacity (the Association);
WHEREAS in consideration of the above-mentioned request,
Sweden intends 'to 'open an account (the Trust Account) and intends
o deposit therein an amount of twenty-four million eight hundred
thousand Swedish Kronor (SEK 24,800,000) (the Grant) and has,
pursuant-tom an agreement of even date herewith between Sweden and
the Association, (the Administration Agreement), appointed the
Association as Administrator of the said Trust Account for the
purpose of providing assistance to the Recipient;
WHERFAS, the Recipient acknowledges' that the financial
assistance extended to the Recipient under this Agreement shall be
considered as part of the bilateral developmånt aid extendåd by
Sweden to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS, the Association, as Administrator, has agreed on the
basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend the GVant to the
Recipient upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the patties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" (the General Conditions) of the Administrator,


﻿--u. r.,  R            r.l
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein., subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof:
(a) the term "Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the provisions of the
Administration Agreement, except that in Sections 2.01 and 6.Q2
thereof, the term "Association" shall also include the Association
acting in its own capacity or as Administrator as the case may be;
(b) the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)  the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Grant hereunder;
(d) -the term "Credit Account", whenever,used in the General
Conditions, means the Grant Account as defined hereunder and
(e) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,
4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.01, 12.02 and 12.05 of the General
Conditions are deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Preamble to this Agreement have the ,
respective meanings therein set forth and the following terms have
the.following meanings:
(a) ."Kronor" and the symbol "SEK" mean the currency of the
Kingdom of Sweden;
(b) "Grant Account" means the account to be opened by the
Administrator in its books in the name of the Recipient to which
the amount of the Grant is 'to be credited;
(c) "Special Account" means the account to be opened by the
Recipient pursuant to SectiQn 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and.
(d) "ESF" or "Emergency Sqcial Fund" means. the Emergency
Social Fund (Fondo Social de ZMergenci) established by the
President of the Republic of Bolivia as a public entity with full
juridical personality, by Chapter I of Decreto Supmo No. 21137
of November 30, 1985 and revised by Decreto SM2reMo No. 21456 of
November 28,. 1986 of the Republic of Bolivia.


﻿3
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Recipient, on the teras and conditions herein set f rth or
referred to, a grant in an amount of twenty-four million eight
hundred thousand Swedish Kronor (SEK 24,800,000)
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn
from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement among the parties, for expenditures made
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b)   ithdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are: payable or, at
the option of the Administrator, in Kronor.
(c) The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Grant, open
and maintain in Kronor ar Special Account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator,. Deposits
ißsto, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1990,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement are
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood
that all referendes therein to the,, "Association" shall be deemed
to be references tc the Administrator under this' Agreement, all
references therein to the "Credit" shall be deemed to be
references to the Grant, and all references therein to the
"Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
signature by both parties.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Recipient and the Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 8.01
of the Development Credit Agreement shall be the representative of
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 8.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agree-
ment, the rights adi obligations of the Administrator under this
Agreement may be transferred to Sweden. The Recipient accepts and
agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient to
that effect, Sweden shall IRRO facto, from the date specified in
such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement as if Sweden had been an
original party to this Agreement, without any further action or
formality required on the part of any party, and from such date
the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as
a party under this Agreement.


﻿5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, actin' through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized have caused this Agree
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America,) as of the day and year first:
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as ADMINISTRATOR on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America- and the Caribbean


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the
amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Swedish Kronor)       to be Financed
(1) SA Subprojects             2,130,000          90% of amount
inder Part A.1                                disbursed by ESF
of the Project                                for each Sub-
project
(2) SI Subprojects             7,640,000          90% of amount
under Part A.2                                disbursed by ESF
of the Project                                for each Sub-
project
(3) El Subprojects             9,540,000         z90% of amount
under Part AZ3                                disbursed by ESF
of the Project                                for each Sub-
project
(4) SP Subprojects             1,910,000          90% of amount
under Part A.4                                disbursed by ESF
of the Project      0                         for each Sub-
project


﻿7
Amount of the
Grant Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Swedish Kronor)Q      to be Financed
(5) Institutional              i,J10,000          100%
support, including
consultants' ser-
vices, equipment
and salaries,
travel costs and
training for fixed
term staff, under
Part B of the
Project
(6) Unallocated                2,470,000
TOTAL             SEK 24,800,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) from the Grant until the grant made available to the
Recipient by the Association as Administrator on behalf of the
Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands pursuant
to a Development Grant Agreement dated July 27, 1988 between the
Association and the Recipient (the Dutch Grant) has been.,disbursed
in full.
(b) in respect of expenditures for any Subproject for which
the estimated financing to be provided by ESF is the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, and less than the equivalent of $250,000, unless
the Administrator shall have received the information set forth in
the Appendix to Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement in
respect of such Subproject and shall have, authorized withdrawal
from the Credit Account as defined therein in respect of such
Subproject; and
(c) in respect of expenditures for a Subproject for which
the estimated financing to be provided by ESF is the equivalent of
$250,000 or more, unless the Subproject has been approved by the
Administrator prior to signing the relevant Subproject Agreement


﻿-8-
and the 'Administrator shall have received the information set
forth in the Appendix to Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement in respect of such Subproject.
3.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
e;peneitures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of Sweden
under this Agreement, by notice to the Recipient, cancel such
amount of the Grant, which in the Administrator's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Grant.


﻿9-
SCHEDULE 2
Special AccountI
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
SEK 6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited
into the Special Account.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account h's been duly opened, with rawalsof
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals-to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator the
documents and other evidence,required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the


﻿10
Administrator shalk, on behalf of the Recipient,
withdrav from the Grant Account and deposit into
the Special Account, such amount-as the Recipient
shall- have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant
Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidener
4.   For each payment made to the Recipient out of the Special
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment wa made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
54   Notwithstanding the   rovisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Administrator shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, 'at any time, the Administrator shall have determined
that' all further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient
directly from Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
Articie V, of - the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b). once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Administrator pursuant to Sectiòn 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal twice the equivalent ýof
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(c) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the
Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Arcount
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an


﻿expenditure or dn an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of *this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon
notice from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or,.if the Administrator shall so request, refund
to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until
the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as-the case may be.
(b) If (.he Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c) The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant
oAccount for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.


