Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22489
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35200; SCL-3520A; SCPD-3520S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF 300 US$ MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
FOR THE
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT II
06/28/2001
Country Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Peso = $
$ 1.00 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = $ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AyE          Agua y Energia Elctrica S. A. (Federally-owned, electric and water utility)
EBY          Entidad Binacional Yacyreta (Entity in charge of the Yacyreta hydroelectric plant)
GOA          Government of Argentina
GOP          Government of Paraguay
ME           Ministry of Energy of Argentina
MECON        Ministry of Economy of Argentina
NIS          National Interconnected System of Argentina
SE           Energy Secretariat under MECON
SEGBA        Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires (Electric utility serving Buenos Aires
area)
UESTY        Executing Unit for the Yacyreta Transmission System (under the SE)
WEIGHS AND MEASURES
kVA                       =     kilovolt-ampere
kW                        =     kilowatt
kWh                       =     kilowatt hour
GWh (gigawatt hour)       1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt)             1,000 Volt
MVA (megavolt-ampere)=   1,000 kVA
MW (megawatt)             =      1,000 kW
m                         =     meter
km (kilometer)            1,000 meter
m2                        =      square meter
ha (hectare)              10,000 m2
m3                        =      cubic meter
sec                       =      second
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Manuel Sevilla



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
YACYRETA II
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 11
6. Sustainability                                                                     16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    21
9. Partner Comments                                                                   23
10. Additional Information                                                           25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006036                                       Project Name: YACYRETA II
Team Leader: Manuel Sevilla                               TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: YACYRETA II                                    LIC/TF Number: CPL-35200;
SCL-3520A;
SCPD-3520S
Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: PH - Hydro
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/25/91                                Effective: 01/13/93            01/13/93
Appraisal:  03/16/92                                  MTR: 06/30/94              06/30/94
Approval:  09/29/92                                Closing: 12/31/98             12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: ARGENTINE REPUBLIC/EBY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          Shaid Husain
Country Manager:     Myrna L. Alexander                         Ping Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:      John Redwood                               Alain Thys
Team Leader at ICR:   Manuel Sevilla                            Nelson De Franco
ICR Primary Author:   Alvaro J. Covarrubias
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Project was at risk in 1998, 1999 and 2000 while IP and DO performance ratings of the project
were rated as Unsatisfactory,



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
YacyretA hydroelectric scheme is a joint venture between Argentina and Paraguay on the Parand
River started in 1973, and implemented by an autonomous agency, Entidad Binacional YacyretA
(EBY) under the Yacyreta Treaty. YacyretA is a complex, multi billion investment endeavor,
consisting of a large earth dam, a power house with an ultimate capacity of 3,100 MW, and a
program of infrastructure relocation, population resettlement and environmental impact
mitigation. Under the Yacyreta Treaty, Argentina has sole responsibility for financing the project.
The Bank and the IDB have supported Yacyreta through a series of loans to Argentina. In 1979
the Bank approved a US$210 million loan to Argentina (Loan 1761- AR) for the Yacyreta
Hydroelectric Project. In 1988, US$250 million from the Electric Power Sector Project (Loan
2998-AR for US$252 million) went in support of YacyretA. In 1992, the Yacyreta Hydroelectric
Project II (Loan 3520-AR for US$300 million) was to finance completion of the project. And, in
1994, US$146.6 million remaining from the SEGBA V project (Loan 2854-AR for US$276
million) were reallocated to Yacyreti. Also, the Loans 3281-AR for US$100 million (Water and
Sewerage Project approved in FY91) and 3521-AR for US$20 million (Flood Rehabilitation
Project approved in FY93) have financed indirectly several components of Yacyreta. In addition,
in 1995 the Bank approved a loan for US$46.5 million to the Republic of Paraguay (Loan
3842-PA) of which US$1.2 million were to finance civil works related to the resettlement
activities under Yacyreta. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has also financed,
directly or indirectly, components of Yacyreta with several loans to Argentina totaling US$880
million (Loans 346/OC-RG for US$250 million in 1978, 555/OC-RG for US$250 million in
1988, 583/OC-RG for US$250 million and RG/0004 for US$130 million in 1993), and Paraguay
(Loan PR-0030 for US$50 million, for the YacyretA Transmission System).
The project's strategy, agreed with the Bank in 1992 for filling the reservoir, called for three
stages starting in 1994 when the first turbine-generating unit was to be installed. The reservoir
was then to be raised to elevation 76m in 1995 and to its final design level of 83m in 1998. This
phased approach was agreed in order to bring into line the need for future financing with the
filling of the reservoir, and environmental and resettlement works. Although it has to be
recognized that this strategy was sound from a financial and engineering point of view, it failed to
see the risks and, consequently, to design mechanisms to reduce and control such risks. In fact,
only the first phase of filling (level 76m) was accomplished. When the reservoir was filled to level
76m in 1994, most but not all relevant actions in the agreed resettlement and environmental
mitigation works needed for 76m were complete. Consequently, a number of actions, contained in
a Plan A, were agreed with the Bank in order to complete the pending works during 1995. Also,
as a consequence of second and third phases of reservoir filling not done, unanticipated social and
environmental problems began to surface and Plan B had to be agreed with the Bank to mitigate
impacts on the environment and population. Since 1994, the project has been operating at level
76m without serious adverse impacts on the environment.
Original Objective: The project was designed to: (a) help provide an efficient supply of energy in
the mid 1990s by ensuring operation of Yacyreta 's first six units with an adequate transmission
- 2 -



system; (b) bring about improved environmental management and appropriate handling of social
aspects in Yacyreta, and, (c) encourage private capital participation in Entidad Binacional
Yacyret,i (EBY).
3.2 Revised Objective:
During implementation, the objectives remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised five components: (a) completion of YacyretA's basic permanent structures;
(b) installation of Yacyreta's first six generating units; (c) implementation of the 500 kV
Yacyreta-Resistencia transmission link; (d) implementation of Yacyreta's Resettlement and
Environmental Management Programs (REMP) required for reservoir operation at 78m and
assessment of the impact of such operation and of the possible rise of the reservoir above 78m;
and, (e) assessment of the possible private capital participation in EBY.
The loan was to finance civil works and related engineering of components (a) and (b), and the
technical assistance for components (c), (d), and (e).
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised.
Component; Cost; Rating
CONSTRUCTION OF CIVIL WORKS; $245,000,000.00; S
ENGINEERING SERVICES FOR WORKS; $44,000,000.00; S
CONSULTING SERVICES; $11,000,000.00; S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
At project appraisal, it was estimated that by mid-1990 the national power system would be in
need of additional base load energy to meet growing electricity demand. The completion of
YacyretA was assessed to be the least cost option for base load power generation expansion when
compared with expansions comprising thermal power plants. Consequently, it was a logical
decision to complete the civil works and other basic infrastructure of YacyretA hydroelectric plant,
and to install and commission at least 6 power-generating units by mid-1994. In 1992, those
works were already partially completed. Also, the construction of the 500kV line to transport
electricity produced by Yacyreta to the national interconnected system had to be done. Thus,
these two objectives were fully justified.
At project appraisal, it became apparent that the filling of the reservoir at water levels higher than
level 76m required effective management of the environmental impacts of the project, and the full
implementation of the population resettlement program for the cities of Posadas in Argentina and
Encarnaci6n in Paraguay. It was estimated that operation of Yacyreta at an initial reservoir level
of 76m in 1994, and one year later at 78m, would generate the additional revenues necessary to
finance the completion of the resettlement program and, therefore, the raising of the reservoir to
- 3 -



level 83m, allowing Yacyreta's operation at its design parameters. A satisfactory Environmental
Impact Assessment of the project was submitted to the Board in April 1992, as required by Bank
norms. Consequently, the objective of improving environmental management and handling of
social aspects of the project was also fully justified.
Argentina has the sole responsibility for financing Yacyreta. In addition to borrowings from the
Bank, IDB and commercial banks and export and suppliers credits, the provision of counterpart
funds had been a heavy burden on Argentine's fiscal budget. This, combined with the increasing
difficulties faced by the GOA in the early 1990s, in obtaining further project financing from
international and commercial sources, led the Bank and the GOA agree on the need to explore the
possibility of private capital participation in EBY permitting completion of the project through
either a management contract or ownership. This was also a sound objective of loan 3520-AR.
The Bank addressed anticipated project risks with a comprehensive set of conditions to be met by
GOA, GOP and EBY on project management, availability of counterpart funds, completion of
flood control works, completion of the resettlement program, implementation of the
environmental management program, procuring goods and services for the power transmission
system, and securing independent advice and reporting from internationally recognized
consultants on dam safety and reservoir operation. Moreover, the Bank committed itself, in
principle, to help future project financing by restructuring the SEGBA V project supported by
Loan 2854-AR that was not longer relevant when SEGBA was privatized.
All things considered, quality at entry can be considered as satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objective (a): To help provide an efficient supply of energy in the mid 1990s by ensuring
operation of Yacyreta's first six units with an adequate transmission system. This objective was
partially achieved. The first unit was commissioned and began to supply energy to the 500 kV
interconnected system on September 1994, as established in the original timetable. Each of the
second to sixth units began operating a few weeks ahead of schedule. The seventh to twentieth
unit were also commissioned a few weeks ahead of schedule. However, the turbine generating
units are delivering about 2/3 of their design capacity as long as the reservoir remains filled to
level 76m. To December 2000, Yacyreta has delivered a cumulative output of 56,226 million
kWh worth US$1,763 million, valued at the adjusted US$30 per MWh established in the Yacyreta
Treaty. Had the reservoir level been raised to level 78m in 1995 and 83m in 1998, Yacyreta
would have been able to deliver a cumulative output of about 74,400 million kWh, worth
US$2,326 million when valued at the adjusted US$30 per MWh of the Treaty. Thus, remaining at
76m represents a loss of US$563 million. The loss would be about US$1,620 million if the
cumulative output-not-delivered by YacyretA through December 2000 --because it operated at a
reservoir level below 83m-- is valued at the actual average retail price per kWh.
-4 -



Objective (b): To bring about improved environmental management and appropriate handling of
social aspects in Yacyreta. This objective was achieved though with significant delays. The Bank
and the GOA agreed in late 1994 that the environmental protection and population resettlement
programs had progressed to a point where some pending actions were not significant enough to
delaying the filling of the reservoir to level 76m. So, the reservoir was impounded to level 76m in
1994. The pending actions were subsequently included in the so-called Plan A. Later, the
prolonged operation of the reservoir to level 76m began to induce unanticipated resettlement and
significant enviromnental problems and additional actions were specified in a Plan B for long-term
operation of reservoir at level 76m. Affected population, represented by a local NGO on the
Paraguay side, filed a complaint with the Bank's Inspection Panel in September 1996. The Panel -
inter alia - reviewed the adequacy of the Action Plans agreed by the Bank with the Governments
and EBY to rectify the situation. It issued its report to the Board in September 1997. The report
was very critical of the Bank's performance. Bank management responded by re-stating its
commitment to stay the course and protect the well-being of the affected people, a position
echoed by the Inspection Panel, in concluding that "Bank assistance will be vital to sustainable
outcomes." The Bank, the Borrower and EBY moved rapidly to address the concerns reflected in
the Panel's report. Plan A and Plan B, as agreed with the parties in response to deteriorated
conditions in the area adjacent to the reservoir in Posadas and Encarnacion, are almost completed
albeit with delays. The restructuring of Loan 3520-AR and Loan 2854-AR provided significantly
increased Bank financing for resettlement and environmental mitigation, together with
establishment of a trust account, to ensure full availability of funds needed for complete
implementation. In addition, Bank supervision was shifted to the field and intensified. In addition,
the Internal Audit Department carried out an audit of the Bank's oversight. The report was
completed on June 1999. The audit looked into the adequacy and effectiveness of the past and
present management decision-making processes, supervision, and mechanisms in place to exercise
available legal remedies in the case of non-compliance of the Borrower. The report voices some
of the same concerns as did the Inspection Panel Report about the prevalence of engineering
considerations over environmental and resettlement in the early years of the project and the Bank's
acceptance of continuous deferment and delays in meeting obligations which seem to have
weakened the Borrower's accountability for results. It also cited deficiencies in past supervision
practices.
Objective (c!: To encourage private capital participation in Entidad Binacional YacyretA (EBY).
This objective was achieved. In 1994, EBY hired an international consulting firm to assess the
viability of possible options for participation of private capital in the YacyretA project. As
preferred option, the consultants recommended to offer through an international competitive
bidding a concession for marketing Yacyreta production, managing, maintaining, and operating
safely the hydroelectric plant. EBY was to receive revenues from the sales of the energy to
complete the project. A proposal to privatize Yacyreta was not approved by the Congresses of
Argentina and Paraguay. However, the UESTY in the GOA succeeded in a timely privatization
of the 500 kV lines linking Yacyreta with the national interconnected system. A toll paid for the
power and energy transmitted through these 500 kV lines remunerates the owners of the lines.
- 5 -



Project Outcome
Based on the above, it is clear that the project has not met its goals as there is no solution on how
to terminate the project, and operate at full capacity. As explained, the project has operated for a
prolonged period of time at an unintended level. In addition, the project presents a poor ERR,
negative NPV recalculated by this ICR, and uncertain project sustainability. As a result, the
outcome of Loan 3520-AR is rated unsatisfactor, and the outcome of the Yacyreta scheme as a
whole is rated unsatisfactory mainly because of its big negative NPV.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Completion of YacyretA's basic permanent structures.
The project completed: (a) an earth dam of about 65 km long with a uniform elevation above sea
level of 86m, and a maximum height of 42m (1996); (b) two spillways with a total water
discharge capacity of 95,000 m3/sec (1993); (c) a conventional covered power house to lodge 20
turbine-generators and their ancillary facilities (1994); (d) a structure to allow up-stream passage
of fish (1996); (e) a navigation lock for ships of a maximum draft of 12 ft. (1996); (f) permanent
villages to house supervisory personnel during construction and personnel in charge of project
operation (1993); (g) about 90 km of roads linking Argentina and Paraguay; and (h) a 1,500 m
long bridge/dike and water flow regulation over the Afia Cud branch of the river. Works such as
the Arroyos Flooding Program and sanitation works are on-going works expected to be
completed in year 2001.
Installation of Yacyreta's first six generating units.
The installation of the first six generating units and units 7 to 20 was accomplished smoothly at
intervals lower than the 72 days agreed in Loan 3520-AR as shown in the following table:
Unit #        Scheduled date    Actual date  Deviation days
1           09/01/94          09/01/94            0
2           11/12/94           11/08/94          -4
3           01/23/95           01/20/95          -3
4           04/05/95           02/27/97          -37
5           06/16/95           05/03/95          -44
6           08/27/95           07/28/95          -30
7           11/07/95           10/05/95          -33
8           01/18/96           11/21/95          -58
9           03/30/96           03/28/96          -2
10          06/10/96          05/03/96           -38
11          08/21/96          08/14/96           -7
12          11/01/96           10/11/96          -21
13          01/12/97           12/13/96          -30
14          03/25/97          02/18/97           -35
15          06/05/97          05/14/97           -22
16          08/16/97          08/08/97           -8
17          10/27/97           10/01/97          -26
18          01/07/98           11/28/97          -40
19          03/20/98          02/11/98           -37
20          05/31/98           04/16/98          -45
- 6 -



The turbines are of Kaplan type operating at 71.4 rpm, rated 155 MW at a net head of 21m. The
generators are rated 172.4 MVA at 13.2 kV, 50Hz, with a power factor of 0.9. The 20
turbine-generator units are able to produce 19,200 GWh/year of electricity under normal
hydrological conditions. The electricity is produced at 13.2 kV, elevated to 500 kV by a set of
3,500 MVA power transformers and linked to a 500 kV switchyard feeding two 500 kV lines.
The commissioning of the turbine generating units included testing and quality assurance and
control of all the electric and mechanical equipment of the hydroelectric plant (auxiliary services,
control, protection, and metering equipment, and computer systems, as well as control rooms,
included installation,
Implementation of the 500 kV Yacyreta-Resistencia transmission link
Private investors selected through ICB were awarded the construction, ownership and operation
of the 500 kV lines linking Yacyreta to the national interconnected system. The first stage was
completed on time in 1994. It comprised a 269 km long 500 kV line between substations
Resistencia and Rinc6n in Yacyreta, passing through the intermediate substation Santa Maria.
The second stage was completed in 1997. It comprised a 507 km 500 kV line between
substations Salto Grande and Rinc6n in Yacyreta, also passing through substation of Santa Maria.
Additionally, an 85 km long 500 kV line was built between substations Posadas and Rinc6n in
Yacyreti.
Implementation of Resettlement Program
The Reseftlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan (RRAP), was prepared by EBY in 1992 based
on a 1989-90 global census of population below level 83m. The Plan is partially completed.
Although that census reported 7,193 urban and 1,262 rural families to be resettled, it did not
identify the number of families located below level 76m, or the number of families located within
the land stripe 76m-78m, or the number of brick-makers located in the peri-urban zone. EBY
estimated in 1,017 the number of brick-makers to be resettled. In 1993, EBY modified the
implementation plan of the RRAP to match it with the filling of the reservoir in three stages by
including the number of families to be moved from the different elevations as reported by an
updated population census. The implementation plan of the RRAP was again modified in May
1996 to contemplate the so called Plan A. Later, in 1997, the implementation plan of the RRAP
had another modification, this time to consider the so called Plan B, containing actions to be
completed to operate Yacyreta at level 76m for a prolonged period of time. The Board of
Directors of the Bank endorsed the recommendation made by the Inspection Panel that the Bank
should support vigorously implementation of Plan B in order to mitigate the effects of prolonged
operation of Yacyreta at elevation 76m and achieve a sustainable outcome of the project.
In the period 1995-2000 EBY resettled a total of 2,707 urban and rural families, including
relocation by GOA and GOP of 1,112 so-called additional families, those not included in the
1989-90 Census. The latter families had eluded lax control of the area to be flooded, moved in
there, and later claimed compensation. The population was resettled at no cost to 4 new urban
and 13 peri-urban or rural settlements with houses costing on average US$25,000, including land
and infrastructure services at no cost. Adding to that number the 1,483 families resettled in the
- 7 -



period 1980-1992, and the 1,188 families resettled in the period 1993-1994, EBY has resettled a
total of 5,378 families. GOA and GOP are responsible for resettling additional families. The latest
international independent evaluation of the RRAP reports a high degree of satisfaction of resettled
families with the physical solutions provided to them by EBY. Urban families relocated close to
places of work in Posadas and Encarnaci6n continue to earn at least their former levels of income.
In contrast, all families relocated at more distant sites have suffered economic dislocation, and see
their income eroded by additional expenses incurred in transportation and services needed to
reach their work places. According to the original design, the project was to
compensated/relocate 1017 artisan brick-makers existing in 1993 (443 in Argentina and 574 in
Paraguay) and finance the cost to excavate and salvage sufficient clay to allow relocated
commercial ceramic industries to be in business for 25 years. Artisan brick-makers were to be
offered a choice between rural or urban resettlement. But in 1994, EBY was forced to resolve
protracted negotiations by offering all brick-makers either compensation in cash or relocation.
From a total 443 artisan brick makers in Argentina, 94 were relocated, 334 compensated, and 17
provided with rural relocation/compensation. From a total of 574 artisan brick makers in
Paraguay, 97 were relocated, 271 were compensated and 206 were compensated for loss of raw
material (clay). From 104 commercial ceramic industries existing in Paraguay, 56 below level 83
were self-relocated and 48 sited elsewhere were compensated for loss of raw material (clay).
In the case of rural farm families, irrespective of whether they had title to land expropriated or
not, they were to be provided with a minimum of 7.5 ha of replacement farm land at no cost for
the affected family. Farmers with title to land expropriated were to be entitled to a quantity of
replacement land equal to the amount taken up to a maximum of 20 ha, beyond which only cash
compensation was paid. EBY also had to provide drinking water, wells, fencing materials, waste
disposal system, school buildings and community centers. Also, these farmers were to receive
health, education, and social work services. As of today, 743 rural families were resettled in 6
resettlement sites (5 in Paraguay and 1 in Argentina) with benefits as planned although with
adjustments in the land size delivered to some rural families resettled in Paraguay. However,
completion of the resettlement necessary to raise the reservoir to level 83m still requires EBY to
relocate 7,370 families living below level 83m (2,651 in Argentina and 4,719 in Paraguay) and
3,258 families affected by overflow of creeks (Arroyos) into the Yacyreta reservoir (2,157 in
Argentina and 1,101 in Paraguay). When fully completed, the project will have resettled a total of
about 17,200 families affected by the filling of the YacyretA reservoir. This total, will be increased
by about 700 merchants not yet relocated/compensated.
Pending actions expected to be completed in 2001 are: (a) construction of the Municipal market
in Encarnaci6n; its construction is on hold while the design of the main building is reviewed; (b)
construction of the potable water and sewage networks in Encarnaci6n - a consultant firm is
preparing the executive design of these networks; and (c) issuing of titles to 145 families in the
Argentinean side and to 47 families in the Paraguayan side. In the Argentinean side, signing of
some titles is pending while family problems are being settled in the court system (inheritance
disputes, divorces, and deaths). Other families are conditioning the signing of titles to the solution
of questionable claims. On the Paraguayan side, existing plans indicate that pending titling will be
completed in the course of 2001.
-8 -



Implementation of the Environmental Management Program (EMP)
The EMP is partially completed. The EMP was designed by EBY in 1992 and implemented to
match the filling of the reservoir to level 76m, and possibly to a higher level later on. In 2000, the
EMP was updated following a participatory process incorporating new environmental criteria,
lessons learned from long-term operation of the reservoir at level 76m, and alternatives to fill and
operate the reservoir. The EMP has implemented:
(a) Four new protected areas that are representative of the different ecosystem affected by the
project. These areas are Apipe Grande, Galarza, and Santa Maria in Argentina, and Isla Yacyreta
in Paraguay totaling about 56,000 hectares. Protected areas exceed the land area flooded by the
Yacyreta reservoir at level 76m. These areas have clear legal status, physical demarcation,
adequate facilities, equipment, personnel for protection and management, and a management plan
supported by resources amounting to US$300,000 annually to cover recurrent costs; (b) A
separate spillway on the Aiia Cua Branch of the Parand river to guarantee a minimum ecological
flow of 1,500 m3/sec, maintaining the river at near natural state. The building of the proposed 250
MW hydroelectric plant at the Ania CuA Branch would be also environmentally beneficial by
reducing gas super saturation down stream; (c) A program to support two captive populations,
and reintroduction trials of globally threatened Aylacostoma snails which lost their Parana River
habitat when the reservoir was filled to 76m.
(d) a facility to transfer fishes up stream through the main Yacyreta dam allowing migration,
completion of the breeding cycle and protection of the species; (e) a security zone in the Parana
River up and down stream from the Yacyreta dam to ensure an effective control of illegal fishing;
and (f) A program to manage productive areas creating the appropriate environment needed by
the saffron-scowled blackbird or Chopi Say Ju (xanthopsarflavus).
Still there are several pending actions, including: (a) Implementation of an updated Environmental
Management Plan, including re-organization of the Environmental Unit of EBY, better budget
allocation, dissemination activities, and preparation of operation rules for the reservoir; (b)
Adopting a decision to build a 250 MW hydroelectric plant on the Afia Cua branch of the Parana
river (this decision is not included as a condition of the loan agreement). This plant, in addition to
generating electricity, is desirable because of its beneficial impact on the environment; (c) Retrofit
of deflectors on the Main Branch spillway, to reduce gas super saturation which harms fish below
the dam; (d) Study the relative biodiversity significance of natural habitat areas to be flooded
between levels 76m and 83m, specially at the still not flooded Aguapey and Tacuary Valleys, and
the extensive sand dunes at the east end of Yacyreta Island; (e) Construction of the slaughter
house in the city of Encarnaci6n. The site for the slaughterhouse was selected and its construction
is under bidding. The Environmental Impact Study is expected to be approved soon by Secretariat
of Environment; and, (f) Construction of sanitation works in the city of Encarnaci6n. Its
construction was on hold awaiting expropriation of land to site it. Since the Expropriation Law
was approved in January 2001, the sanitation works are expected to be constructed as soon as the
contractor is selected through an ICB.
Raising the reservoir to a level above 76m would generate a number of significant impacts on the
environment whose mitigation would be very costly. A decision to raise the reservoir level will
require a thorough analysis to find an optimum level compromising the benefits of the incremental
-9-



power generation by Yacyreta and the costs of both the mitigation of additional environmental
impacts and the additional resettlement. It corresponds to GOA, GOP and EBY to decide the
raising of the reservoir level and the filling strategy. The role of the Bank is to enforce--based on
the Loan, Project and Third Party Agreements and their amendments-- the conditions to be
complied with, in light of the decisions made by GOA, GOP and EBY.
Future Intensive Learning from the Yacyreta Project.
As explained, both the resettlement and environmental management programs continue to be
implemented with financing provided by Loan 2854-AR (SEGBA-V). Activities are progressing
with delays and under close Bank supervision. In addition, considerable discussion have taken
place regarding the long term future of Yacyreta and the final level of operation of the reservoir
but no final decision has been made. A full, intensive learning ICR will be conducted upon closing
of Loan 2854-AR, in October 2002. This intensive learning ICR will include inputs from affected
people, NGO's and other project stakeholders.
To assess possible private capital participation in EBY.
The options to be assessed by an international consulting firm were described in an Exchange of
Diplomatic Notes between Argentine and Paraguay done in 1995. The preferred option
recommended by the consultant --a concession arrangement to market electricity produced by
Yacyreta combined with operation and maintenance of the hydroelectric plant plus commitment to
complete the project-- was not approved by the Congresses of Argentine and Paraguay (see
paragraph 4.1 above). However, GOA succeeded in attracting private capital for building, owning
and operating the 500 kV transmission lines.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ex-post calculation of net present value (NPV) and economic rate of return (ERR) of the
project was done under the assumption that the reservoir level will be raised to level 78m in 2004
and to 83m in 2005. Also, two approaches to the valuation of the electricity produced by
Yacyreta were applied as follows:
(a) The first approach considers EBY as a company whose electricity output delivered to the 500
kV system is remunerated with the adjustable price of US$30 per MWh as established in the
Yacyreta Treaty. In this case, the recalculated ERR of the project is 15.8 percent (NPV is
US$935 million at 10 percent discount rate) if only the additional investment done from 1992 plus
that estimated to complete the project are factored in. This value compares well to the 13.3
percent ERR estimated at appraisal. The ERR drops to 3.4 percent (NPV is negative US$2,065
million at 10 percent discount rate) if all investment already done plus that estimated to complete
the project are taken into consideration. The appraisal did not estimate the ERR including the
sunk cost.)
(b) The second approach values electricity produced by Yacyreta as it were a generator of the
wholesale market, i.e., at the price prevailing in the Argentine spot market. In this case the
- 10-



calculation of the ERR includes as cost the price to transport Yacyreta electricity through the
500kV lines linking Yacyreta to the national interconnected system plus the cost of CAMMESA's
services. The resulting ERR is 9.5 percent (NPV is negative US$80 million at 10 percent
discount rate) if only additional investment done since 1992 are considered. This ERR is that low
because the spot price has been (and estimated to remain so after year 2001) lower than US$30
per MWh. This value of the ERR is significantly lower than the 17 percent estimated at project
appraisal, which assumed the Yacyreta output sold at the price for the final retail consumer. The
ERR plummets to 1.3 percent (NPV is negative US$2,365 million at 10 percent discount rate) if
all investment already done plus that estimated to complete the project are taken into
consideration. The appraisal did not estimate the ERR including the sunk cost.)
The above results also point out to the shortcomings of ex-ante calculations of the ERR based
only on the incremental cost needed to complete a project without regard to the investment
already done (sunk cost method used at appraisal). In evaluating the economic merits of the
additional funds needed to complete a project it would be also valuable to do ex-ante sensitivity
analyses of the ERR and NPV including sunk costs to assess the future commercial and financial
viability of the project. Of course, such approach is more relevant when the project is in its early
stages of implementation and canceling it is still possible at a relatively low cost.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
It was not calculated at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project did not have an explicit institutional development objective but had some impact on
the organization of EBY. Since 1992 the project made modest contributions toward improving
EBY structure and management effectiveness, transparency, internal controls, re-organizing the
functions of field staff, and concentrating staff and operational decisions in the field and not in
Buenos Aires. Also, EBY staff received comprehensive training on environmental, resettlement
and social matters, which were essential for performing their duties. Moreover, the management
and monitoring of the environmental and social impacts of the project impacts are being carried
out with participation of NGOs and local and provincial institutions. However, in spite of project
efforts and some recent progress, EBY's institutional capacity remains a major challenge, and any
attempt to raise the level of the reservoir would have to design and implement actions to deal with
slow and complicated procedures, over centralization, weak coordination and transparency, and
limited control and supervision capacity.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation progressed without major delays and complications from 1992 to 1994.
The main civil works and structures of the hydroelectric plant were completed, the reservoir was
impounded to level 76m and the turbine generating sets began to be routinely commissioned since
September 1994. Project implementation --other than installation of the turbine generating units
- 11 -



and the 500 kV transmission system-- began to slow down in 1995 when counterpart funds from
the GOA dried up, and disappeared completely in 1995 and 1996 as a result of the macro
economic crises triggered by the so called "Tequila effect". Lack of counterpart funding
prevented any significant progress in the implementation of the resettlement and environmental
program and infrastructure works of the project, and eventually led to postponing the raising of
the reservoir above level 76m year. At that time, the alternative envisaged was to attract private
capital to the project by selling future electricity generation, and contracting management and
operation of the power plant. The situation was further complicated as a result of GOP increasing
lack of commitment to the project, and the resulting slow progress in the resettlement and
environmental components on the Paraguayan side.
In 1996 a Paraguayan NGO requested an investigation by the Bank's and IDB's Inspection Panels.
Affected population, represented by a local NGO on the Paraguay side, filed a complaint with the
Bank's Inspection Panel in September 1996. The Panel, inter alia, reviewed the adequacy of the
Action Plans agreed by the Bank with the Governments and EBY to rectify the situation. It
issued its report to the Board in September 1997. The report was very critical of the Bank's
performance. Bank management responded by re-stating its commitment to stay the course and
protect the well-being of the affected people, a position echoed by the Inspection Panel, in
concluding that "Bank assistance will be vital to sustainable outcomes." The Bank, the Borrower
and EBY moved rapidly to address the concerns reflected in the Panel's report. Plan A and Plan
B, as agreed with the parties in response to deteriorated conditions in the area adjacent to the
reservoir in Posadas and Encarnaci6n are almost completed albeit with delays. The restructuring
of Loan 3520-AR and Loan 2854-AR provided significantly increased Bank financing for
resettlement and environmental mitigation, together with establishment of a trust account, to
ensure full availability of funds needed for complete implementation. In addition, Bank
supervision was shifted to the field and intensified. In addition, the Internal Audit Department
carry out an audit of the Bank's oversight. The report was completed on June 1999. The audit
looked into the adequacy and effectiveness of the past and present management decision-making
processes, supervision, and mechanisms in place to exercise available legal remedies in the case of
non-compliance of the Borrower. The report voices some of the same concerns as did the
Inspection Panel Report about the prevalence of engineering considerations over environmental
and resettlement in the early years of the project and the Bank's acceptance of continuous
deferment and delays in meeting obligations which seem to have weakened the Borrower's
accountability for results. It also cited deficiencies in past supervision practices and recommended
more attention to project issues and situations that are more political than technical.
The main factors affecting implementation and outcome are:
The "Tequila effect". In 1994, the Mexican financial crisis spread over the Latin American region
affecting countries with varying degrees of intensity. The effect on Argentina was severe to the
point that the GOA had to introduce drastic macro economic measures particularly in the
priorities for using the fiscal budget. At that time, YacyretA was not among the priorities of GOA
and hence counterpart contributions to the project were stopped in 1995 and 1996. Since then,
EBY has had to rely mainly on its own revenues and international and commercial loans to finance
its current expenses and the implementation of Plan A and, later Plan B. In 1997, the GOA
- 12 -



opened a Trust Account to help finance part of the cost of resettling additional families not
accounted for in 1990-1990 census. A total of US$3.2 million deposited by GOA in that Trust
Account helped financing 361 houses for families not included in the 1989-1990 census.
Intervention of NGOs. The claim presented to the Bank by a Paraguayan NGO on behalf of the
communities affected by the Yacyreta project, --based on undesirable impacts of the Yacyreta
reservoir at level 76m -- brought to the public knowledge legitimate concerns about unanticipated
environmental impacts and social issues. However, other local groups and individuals created and
amplified expectations of the population about potential compensations to be obtained from EBY.
The time-consuming resolution of these claims has been and continues to be a factor in the
slowing down of pending actions on resettlement implementation. This has led to frequent social
and political conflicts with respect to a broad range of issues. The most important type of conflicts
is that occurring between EBY and some affected families that are not satisfied with the quantity
or quality of the compensation they have received, or with the accessibility of the new sites with
respect to public services and the job market in the urban centers of Posadas and Encarnaci6n. A
further source of conflicts refers to pressures on EBY to extend compensation benefits to new
groups with questionable and exaggerated claims. Management of these situations has been
complicated by premature decisions adopted by EBY to pay cash compensations in cases with
little technical justification. With Bank support, EBY is currently undertaking a study aimed at
identifying real socioeconomic impacts that need to be compensated. In addition, discussions are
under way for the purpose of creating a mechanism that would help EBY prevent and solve
conflicts.
Paraguay Expropriation Law. Approval of the law to expropriate land within the boundaries of
the Yacyreta project in the Paraguay side took an extremely long time. The approval of the
expropriation law took place only in January 2001. It will be now possible to make progress in
completing pending actions on resettlement implementation in Paraguay, an activity that was
practically paralyzed.
GOP Trust Account. In 1997 the GOP was supposed to open a Trust Account in which it had to
deposit the funds required to finance improvements in services and infrastructure of families
already resettled to Ita Paso, Paraguay. GOP delayed the opening of the Trust Account until year
2000. This contributed to delay the execution of those improvements.
Opposition of Argentine and Paraguay Congresses to privatize Yacyreta in 1995. In line with
conditions of Loan 3520-AR, EBY contracted an international consulting firm to assess the
economic and financial viability of attracting private capital to Yacyreta. Based on the
recommendations made by the consulting firm, the GOA and GOP cast a proposal in a Protocol
to be signed by both countries amending the Yacyreti Treaty. The proposal was to sell the future
electricity generation of Yacyreta to private investors, contract the management and operation of
the power plant, and complete the project. This attempt was short lived since it encountered
opposition in the Congresses of Paraguay and Argentina. Later, a Blue Ribbon Panel appointed
by the Bank in 1999 recommended privatizing Yacyreta and raising the reservoir above level 77m.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
- 13 -



Counterpart funds. Although the financial crisis of Argentina imposed serious constraints on the
size and use of the 1995 and 1996 fiscal budget, the GOA could have maintained Yacyreta as a
priority project in the fiscal budget, and allocated the funds required to keep the pace of project
implementation as originally planned. The decision to stop counterpart contributions to the
project demonstrated an increased trend of weakened commitment of GOA to Yacyreta during
those years.
Intervention in Yacyreta operations. Frequent change of the Yacyreta's Executive Director made
by the GOA (5 in the period 1992-2000) has had influence in EBY performance. The
discontinuity in the top management of Yacyreta resulted in changes in the decision making and
administrative procedures of EBY, contributing to delays in project execution.
Inadequate control of areas to be flooded. An initial poor control of areas to be flooded by the
Yacyreta reservoir permitted an invasion of those zones by families and individuals seeking
resettlement compensation. Those families were not part of the 1989-1990 census, and
consequently, the GOA and the GOP were made responsible for resettling them. Since 1997,
control of areas within the boundaries below level 83m has significantly improved in both the
Argentine and Paraguay sides. Only a few families have been able to evade controls and settle in
the restricted areas.
Limitations to eligible resettlement compensation. There is an important restriction on the scope
of eligible compensation to be given to resettled families: any improvement or additions made to a
house after 1992 is not eligible for compensation. This GOA's and GOP's resettlement policy has
inhibited dwellers from investing in improvements in their houses, and made them live during
many years at standards below those they would have otherwise been able to enjoy. This situation
has contributed to create a climate of anxiety and frustration among families located in the land
stripe 78m-83m, waiting to be resettled.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of integration of the resettlements within the existing urban and rural organization. EBY
acquired certain areas for resettlement without technical criteria, and without considering the
integration of those zones into the existing urban and rural infrastructure, generating problems
and additional costs. Some of the urban resettlements were located far from the city center,
which caused isolation of families from workplaces, particularly for those who hold "informal"
jobs, which are tied to the commercial centers of Encamaci6n and Posadas.
Lack of consultation and participation of the population to be resettled. Some areas for
resettlement were acquired by EBY without consulting or seeking the participation of the people
to be relocated, in regards to location and housing options. This caused problems in the
resettlement process and became a source of conflicts. With Bank advice, EBY is adopting a
more participatory approach, including more systematic consultations and dissemination of
information. To increase informed citizen consultation and participation, EBY has established
documentation centers in their local offices in Posadas and Encarnaci6n. People may read and
obtain copies of all resettlement and environmental plans; monitoring reports on water quality,
- 14 -



disease vectors, fisheries, resettlement, etc.; and consultant reports as well as bi-monthly progress
reports to the Bank. In addition, EBY now publishes a monthly bulletin to inform the public on
the progress of resettlement and environmental operations. It continues its long-standing social
work program, through which social workers are based in neighborhood offices before and after
relocation to facilitate direct participation of families it is responsible for relocating. In addition,
EBY organized, with the support of the World Bank and IDB, several town-hall meetings to
discuss existing problems in the resettlement of families affected by the YacyretA project, and the
future of the project. Finally, EBY has contracted advisory services from an international NGO to
improve consultation and participation.
Administrative processes associated with the resettlement. The institutional structure of EBY was
slow in performing land acquisitions, housing construction, acquisition of components, etc.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project Cost: The most recent estimate of the total investment cost of the Yacyreta scheme is
about US$6,437 million in current US$ dollars, excluding the cost of the private 500kV
transmission lines and the unsettled claims made by the contractor of the main civil works. That
total investment cost is the cumulative amount of US$ 3,408 millions invested since initiation of
the project in 1978 through 1991, plus US$2,019 million invested in the 1992-2000 time slice
(period of loan 3520-AR) and US$1,010 million estimated to complete Yacyreta in 2005. Those
amounts adjusted to constant year-2000 US$ using the MUV index are respectively US$7,090
million, US$4,224 million, US$1,856, and US$1,010 million. A meaningful comparison of costs
can be done by expressing costs in constant US$ of a chosen year because it eliminates the
inflation factor from the investment cost equation. A comparison between the total investment
cost originally estimated of US$ 5,555 million in the SAR of August 31, 1992 and the most recent
estimate of the total investment cost of the project indicates a cost overrun of 16 percent.
However, the cost overrun of total costs measured in constant US$ is 14 percent. At appraisal of
the second Yacyreta project (financed by loan 3520-AR), the cost of completing the project,
excluding the 500kV transmission lines, was estimated at about US$2,147 million expressed in
1992 US$, or US$1983 million expressed in constant 2000 US$. Consequently, the project as
defined in Loan 3520-AR would have a cost overrun of 45 percent in constant dollars.
Project Financing: Financing the US$1,362 million of the original project time slice 1992-1995
(excluding the 500kV transmission lines) was to be done by (a) GOA contributions: US$378
million, (b) export and supplier credits for electrical equipment: US$564 million; (c) EBY
internally generated funds: US$91 million (based on electricity sales at a December 31, 1991 rate
of US$30/MWh); (d) loan 3520-AR: US$300 million; and (e) IDB loan: US$31 million. Actual
financing of the US$2,021 million of the 1992-2000 time slice investment resulted as follows: (a)
GOA: US$219 million; (b) EBY: US$523 million; (c) export and supplier credits: US$668
million; (d) loan 3520-AR: US$300 million; (e) Loan 2844-AR: US$108 million; (f) IDB: US$13
million; and BBV: US$190 million. The actual financing resulted as follows: (a) GOA: US$219
million; (b) EBY: US$523 million; (c) loan 3520-AR: US$300 million; (d) loan 2854-AR:
US$108 million; (e) suppliers credits: US$668 million; (f) BID: US$13 million; and (g) BBV:
US$190 million. It is noticeable the significant recent contributions of EBY to project financing
-15-



from electricity sales, and the reduction of GOA contributions to zero in 1995 and 1996 as a
consequence of the macro-economic crises triggered by the "Tequila effect".
Disbursement of loan 3520-AR took two years longer than planned. Four amendments were made
to reallocate funds among loan disbursement categories, the last one in 1997 to also extend the
loan closing date to December 31, 2000. The US$300 million loan was fully disbursed --the last
disbursement took place on October 2000.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the Yacyreta project can be considered as unlikely. Main factors behind this
rating are the following: (a) Argentina in general, and EBY in particular have the necessary
technical and managerial competence to ensure a quality operation and maintenance of the
hydroelectric plant. Thus, electricity production by the hydroelectric plant is not at issue.
However, operation of the turbines with the reservoir at a level lower than the design level (83m)
has started to induce some erosion in the turbine runners, a situation that may lead to a shortening
of their physical life. The manufacturers of the turbine runners are expected to propose an
operational solution for this technical problem. In case that no solution is found, the option for
EBY would be to replace the turbine runners more often than originally planned. (b) The
environmental management program is expected to create the necessary institutional arrangements
allowing appropriate monitoring of the measures taken to mitigate the environmental impacts of
the project operating at level 76m. (c) The resettlement program up to level 76m is practically
completed. However, permanent and definite operation of YacyretA at level 76m will require
addressing the issue of how to compensate the population still located below level 83m. The
resolution of this issue will likely involve high cost in settling the legal claims presented by families
that were prevented from innovating in their properties. (d) Finally, the option of raising the level
of the reservoir above its current 76m level would require additional and considerable
investments. It seems unlikely that a project of the magnitude of Yacyreta would not be financially
supported by the GOA in the search for a solution to complete the project to a level above 76m.
But it is unclear how servicing of the high debt of YacyretA will be accomplished.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Two technical options are being explored by the GOA and GOP for future regular operation of
the project: (i) to operate Yacyreta permanently at level 76m or (ii) to operate Yacyreti at a level
higher than 76m. The combination of these options with private capital participation is still being
considered for completing Yacyreti. For option (i), the completion of the pending actions under
Plan B can be considered as the transition arrangements for regular operation of YacyretA at level
76m. For option (ii), EBY has prepared a plan for raising the reservoir above level 76m. This
plan was submitted to the Bank on February 28, 2001.
The Bank has analyzed the proposed plan in order to ensure that the Bank's environmental and
resettlement policies are taken into account, and provided a response on April 2001, indicating
that the Plan as presented is not considered feasible. The Bank recommended increased and more
- 16-



systematic consultations with civil society groups and other project stakeholders, adoption of a
plan to strengthen EBY's institutional capacity, and other activities aimed at preventing and
dealing with possible adverse effects. In addition, the Bank has indicated that a feasible Plan needs
to take into account all conditions established in existing legal documents.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation and appraisal can be rated as marginally satisfactory.
During project preparation the Bank was aware of the difficulties the GOA had in the Yacyreta I
project (Loan 1761-AR), mobilizing and allocating financial resources needed to implement the
project in accordance with original agreements. However, project preparation was driven mainly
by engineering and economic considerations. The Bank failed to reconcile the high political
interest of the GOA in finishing the main civil works, and installing the turbine generating units,
with the existing technical concerns about the project's resettlement and environmental impacts. It
is in this context that the option of raising the level of the Yacyreta reservoir in stages allowing
operation of the units at reduced output --but generating revenues for project financing-- emerged
as the most feasible solution. An economic and financial analysis showed that raising the reservoir
level in three stages, 76m, 78m and 83m, starting in 1994 and finishing it in 1998, would permit to
complete the dam, power house, other permanent civil works, and the resettlement and
environmental programs in accordance with the original project design, provided that financial
support from the Bank, co-financiers, GOA, and the sale of energy by EBY were made available
to the project. The agreement on reduced operation of Yacyreta took lengthy negotiations
between Argentina and Paraguay. It also required the adoption of other key agreements such as
streamlining EBY's organization, setting of tariffs, and amending contracts of civil works. The
Bank provided valuable advice to GOA, GOP and EBY in addressing those issues and, as
required, a satisfactory Environmental Impact Assessment of the project was submitted to the
Board.
Project appraisal is well documented in the SAR. In particular, the resettlement and environmental
programs were analyzed in great detail, and actions were designed to mitigate undesirable
negative impacts of the project. Project appraisal found that the financial plan of the project was
viable under the assumptions that counterpart funds were to be readily available and that project
completion was to be achieved as planned. However, the appraisal did not take into account
lessons learned during implementation of the Yacyreti I project, where the lack of counterpart
funds was one of the main reason for the project not being completed. Appraisal failed to
evaluate and cover the risks of the GOA not being able to provide the counterpart funds to
complete the project and the GOP not complying with key actions necessary to implement the
resettlement and environmental program in Paraguay. Appraisal did not recognize that the
materialization of those risks, a catastrophic scenario, was indeed very likely to occur. Thus, the
appraisal accepted that project risks were to be covered with standard Bank remedies in case
GOA, GOP and EBY were in non compliance with a comprehensive set of conditions on
availability of counterpart funds, project management, completion of flood control works,
- 17 -



completion of the resettlement program, implementation of the environmental management
program, procuring goods and services for the power transmission system, and securing
independent advice from internationally recognized consultants on dam safety and reservoir
operation. Further, the Bank committed itself, in principle, to help future financing of the project
by allocating funds to Yacyreta from the undisbursed amount of Loan 2854-AR (SEGBA V
project) which were not needed anymore because SEGBA had been privatized.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision during the entire life of Loan 3520-AR is rated as unsatisfactory. The Bank has
deployed a significant amount of resources in project supervision. Through mid-FYO1, the Bank
has spent about US$1.8 million in project supervision. A total of 16 supervision mission, unevenly
distributed, were carried out from December 1992 to October 2000 averaging one supervision
mission per year from 1992 to 1995, and averaging 3 supervision per year thereafter. Since 1992,
the project team was led by a rotation of 5 Task Managers, a factor that affected continuity in the
relationship between the Bank and GOA/EBY. Supervision became more intensive since 1998
when the Task Manager moved to the Office of the Bank in Buenos Aires to be close to the field,
and a specialist in Civil Society issues was assigned to the Bank's Office in Asunci6n, Paraguay, to
deal with the social aspects of Yacyreta. Supervision reports were relatively brief through 1994
but became specially detailed when the project entered in a financial crisis in 1995-1996, and in
1997 during negotiations of the third amendment to the loan documents. Supervision efforts were
increased in 1996, following the Inspection Panel Report.
Initially, the Bank was very flexible in dealing with the problems faced by GOA, EBY and GOP in
project implementation. It amended the loan documents in September 1993 to reallocate funds in
accordance with the financial needs of the contract for the major civil works of the project and
again in December 1993 to postpone dated covenant related to studies on protection of the
Aguapey creek, reservoir sedimentation, and emergency preparation plan. Moreover, the Bank
did not object to the proposal to raise the level of the reservoir in 1994. In hind sight, agreeing in
1994 to the raising of the Yacyreta reservoir to level 76m, was likely a mistake.
Bank supervision faced considerable difficulties during the period 1995-1997. First, the GOA
informed the Bank that the macro economic crisis triggered by the "Tequila effect", prevented any
further allocation of counterpart funds to the Yacyreta project. In response, the Bank expressed
its intention of not including in the CAS any future Bank support to investment projects in
Argentina unless GOA showed continue support to the Yacyreta project. Second, in 1996 a
Paraguayan NGO filed a claim to the Bank requesting the intervention of a special inspection
panel to investigate violation of Bank policies and procedures resulting in negative impact of the
project on the environment, and on social and economic aspects affecting population as a
consequence of the reservoir being operated at level 76m, compounded with lax Bank
supervision. Taking into account the Inspection Panel Report, the Bank undertook a series of
positive actions: (a) committed GOA, EBY and GOP to complete by 1998 the resettlement and
environmental actions left pending when the reservoir was impounded to level 76m (Plan A) and
actions for prolonged operation of the reservoir at level 76m (Plan B); (b) committed GOA, GOP
and EBY to deposit in separate Trust Accounts the counterpart funds needed for completing
resettlement of additional families in Argentina and Paraguay respectively; (c) restructured Loan
- 18-



2854-AR to make funds available to Yacyreta for implementing part of the resettlement and
environmental programs; (d) included explicitly in the EMP completion of some important
infrastructure works and measures; (e) committed GOA, GOP and EBY to a revised timetable for
the implementation of the EMP; and (f) committed EBY to restructure its organization and
reinforce it with external consultants in the management of its resettlement and environmnental
units. All these measures, included in the third amendment of Loan 3520-AR and the fourth
amendment of Loan 2854-AR, became effective in December 1997. Also, as indicated above,
project supervision by the Bank was reinforced and the Bank Inspection Panel began to report
periodically to the Board. The direct involvement that Senior Management of the Bank had in
project supervision at that time, and the support it gave to Bank staff were key factors in the
satisfactory outcome of the negotiations held with GOA, GOP, and EBY in formulating the third
amendment to the loan.
Later, in 1998, a Blue Ribbon Panel on Yacyreta was formed to advise Bank management on
options for future operation of the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
All things considered, Bank overall performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation can be considered as satisfactory.
The Borrower, the Republic of Argentina, showed a strong commitment and support to project
preparation but relied mainly in EBY and consultants for carrying out the preparation activities. In
particular, the GOA expressed its commitment to provide the counterpart funds required by
project implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Performance was mixed. From 1992 to 1994. it was satisfactory, giving strong financial and
political support to the completion of the dam, power house, permanent infrastructure works, and
installation of generating units, in accordance with agreed timetable and plans to deliver promnised
electricity to the interconnected power system. It also succeeded in obtaining private
participation in the construction, ownership, and operation and maintenance of the 500 kV
transmission lines connecting Yacyreta to the 500 kV interconnected system. But GOA
performance turn out to be highly unsatisfactory from 1995 to 1997 by (a) cutting off counterpart
contributions to the project resulting in a severe delay in project implementation that induced
social problems among the population not resettled, and created unanticipated environmental
impacts; (b) being ineffective in obtaining political support to bringing private capital to EBY.
Although the GOA performance improved after the third amendment to the loan became effective
in December 1997, it has been ineffective in moving Paraguay to meet key commitments
established in the Third Party Agreement, particularly the approval of the Expropriation Law
- 19-



permitting the acquisition of land located in the Paraguayan side of the project. Only in
mid-January 2001 the Paraguayan Congress approved the expropriation law. Lack of an
Expropriation Law generated delays and bottlenecks for resettlement activities in Paraguay.
Regarding privatization, the GOA explore ways of moving forward during the period 1994-96 but
was unable to obtain legislative support.
In balance. Bank overall performance during implementation of Loan 3520-AR is rated as
unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of EBY has been mixed during project implementation but overall can be rated as
marginally satisfactory mainly in merit to its highly satisfactory performance during the period
1992-1994 as demonstrated by making their contractors complete the dam, the permanent
infrastructures works, the power house and the installation of the first 6 turbine generating units in
timely manner, and install units 7 to 20 afterwards. However, EBY performance decayed after
1995 and project implementation was delayed mainly as a result of the cutting off the counterpart
funds decided by the GOA, compounded with inefficiencies in its organization and lack of an
expropriation law in Paraguay. The Paraguay Congress only in mid-January 2001 approved that
expropriation law.
EBY restructuring and streamnlining made in 1997, linked to the modifications made to the
implementation of the resettlement and environmental management programs and the setting of
Trust Account mechanisms facilitating availability and transfer of funds to EBY, improved its
performance. But after 1998, EBY performance became again unsatisfactory to the point where
the achievements of the project development objectives were at risk. EBY performance improved
since late 1999, in an effort to comply with conditions needed to obtain an extension of the
closing date of Loan 2854-AR from December 31, 2000, to October 31, 2002. In early 2001
EBY performance is considered to be satisfactory and in compliance with its commitment set
forth in the Project Agreement. The Yacyreta project has been rated unsatisfactory since 1998
due to delays in implementing key activities of the resettlement and environmental plans, financed
by loan 2854-AR. In the same way, since 1998 EBY's performance was rated unsatisfactory due
to failure to adopt proper planing and control methods, poor monitoring of agreed upon actions,
slow adoption of more flexible and agile procedures, weak coordination and consultation with key
Government agencies and other project stakeholders, and slow progress in implementing
administrative and management recommendations formulated by the Bank supervision missions.
However, during the 1999-2000 period EBY made significant efforts and accomplished sufficient
improvements with respect to all issues previously mentioned. Consequently, EBY performance
was rated satisfactory in year 2000 even though the overall project rating remained unchanged.
EBY finances: Financial viability of EBY hinges around its prospects to service its large debt with
the GOA, estimated, as of Dec. 31,1999, in US$9.4 billion. Of this total debt, US$7.7 billion
corresponds to funding provided directly by GOA, and US$347 million represent IBRD
resources. Currently, EBY is not servicing this debt other than through the application of the
subsidy arising from the differential between the market price and the Treaty price of 30.76
- 20 -



US$/MWh. EBY's debt with GOA, before considering capital expenditures required for raising
the level 83m, will rise by US$1.4 billion by 2004. The debt will then be approximately US$9
billion, and generate interest expenses which could exceed the subsidy arising from the price
differential at current market prices and thus continue to grow.
The projections beyond 2004 would have to consider both the additional capital expenditures
(about 1.1 billion) and the higher income associated with going to level 83m in the reservoir. It is
not clear where financing will originate for the US$1.1 billion but it is unlikely that the GOA will
obtain any relief, under this scenario, before 2012. Also, unless private participation in Yacyreta
includes the Ana Cud investment (about US$125 million), EBY's dependency on the GOA will be
increased further.
The Bank is ready to analyze any plan to raise the level of the reservoir, and ensure that financial
arrangements and related debt levels are in line with existing legal agreements.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
All things considered, GOA and EBY combined performance during the life of Loan 3520-AR
can be considered as unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Implementation of YacyretA Project has generated valuable lessons relevant for other large
infrastructure with large resettlement and environmental impacts. A total of thirteen lessons are
offered:
Lesson 1: Bank loans should be better allocated to finance high cost critical project components
which are at substantial risk of not being timely completed because of a shortage of Borrower's
counterpart funds. It would be advisable that Borrower's counterpart funds be better allocated to
finance project components which are easy to procure and less complex to implement. In
Yacyreta, the Bank loans were allocated to the financing of civil works, a very clearly defined
component of the project to be built by an international consortium. However, counterpart funds
were allocated to finance the multiple and very complex works and activities comprising the
resettlement and environmental components. Completion of these components was essential for
filling the reservoir to its design level (83m.) but scarcity of counterpart funds to finance their
completion --compounded with other factors-- impeded to reach levels higher than 76m.
Lesson 2. Yacyreta was a complex project that require coordination and support from central and
local government agencies, in order to complete resettlement of affected people. The Bank was
excessively optimistic in assuming that resettlement and environmental activities could be
completed within the agreed time in a manner acceptable to the Bank. Because the scale of the
resettlement and environmental plan and its highly political nature, the resettlement and
environmental programs should have been designed as the major activity of the project. In the
same way, the Bank should have dealt with the political implications of the resettlement and
environmental programs early in the life of the project and in a persistent manner along
- 21 -



implementation.
Lesson 3. The Borrower failure to initiate agreed activities in a timely manner should have trigger
an early application of legal remedies, as specified in legal documents. However, Bank supervision
was too accommodating and ready to reschedule targets and renegotiate plans.
Lesson 4. Political commitment is key to project success. Good project design needs to identify
necessary ways in which political commitment of borrower needs to materialize to ensure success.
In the case of Yacyreta political commitment should have been measured by approval of the
expropriation law, institutional reform of EBY, and allocation of counterpart funding. In the same
line, project supervision needs to focus not only on technocratic issues but also on those that
represent a test of the political commitment of the borrower, dealing with them appropriately.
Lesson 5. Binational projects represent a major challenge. Experience indicates that the binational
nature cannot and should not be translated into cumbersome structure and weak accountability. In
the case of Yacyreta these issues were not properly tackled during appraisal and implementation.
Lesson 6: Bank loan resources become available to the project in the Special Account as soon as
the loan becomes effective. In order to achieve an equivalent assurance of availability of
counterpart funds, it would be advisable to condition either effectiveness or disbursement of the
Bank loan to the opening by the Borrower of a Trust Account to be replenished from a reliable
source of financing. The Trust Account mechanism was introduced in the third amendment to
loan 3520-AR in order to ensure availability of funds to finance pending resettlement and
environmental measures of Plans A and B of the resettlement and environmental management
program. This mechanism worked very well.
Lesson 7: In dealing with large bi-national infrastructure project, and whenever possible, the
Parties should design the project sharing a balanced responsibility in the financing of the project,
i.e., by avoiding to place the major burden of project financing in one of the parties only. While a
more balanced participation of the parties in project financing would provide incentives to both
parties to complete the project efficiently and in a timely manner, an unbalance distribution of
responsibilities increases the risk of a project not being completed because of a financing shortage
on the most burdened party and a potential lack of interest in the other party due to perverse
incentives. Most of the delays in implementing Yacyreta can be attributed to Argentina having the
sole responsibility for project financing. Paraguay has contributed to project financing with a
relatively very small initial equity amount of only US$50 million. As a result, Paraguay and
Argentina have confronted different sets of incentives when dealing with the project.
Lesson 8. Direct involvement of senior Bank managers during the implementation of a large and
lumpy investment project is desirable in a continuous manner and linked to giving a strong
support to the project team. This would permit early intervention of Bank managers in situations
that have the potential to produce critical situations in the project. In the Yacyreta II project, the
financial and public image crises of project were resolved only after they had unfolded thanks to a
careful but energetic handling of the situation by Bank management and project team.
- 22 -



Lesson 9. Land acquisition and resettlement of population must be closely coordinated in time.
Given the case, this requires early enacting of expropriation laws and a census of lots and owners
from whom the land will be expropriated. The timetable for relocation of people should be in
harmony with the timetable for land acquisition, supported with timely availability of funds for
payment of land expropriated, and driven by the deadline to impound the reservoir.
Lesson 10. In order to avoid settlement of new families or merchants within the boundaries of the
project to be affected by the impoundment of the reservoir, the project-implementing agency
should monitor and enforce strict control measures to impede access of new people to the
affected areas, early in project implementation.
Lesson 11. In order to minimize the dislocation of family incomes and their access to community
services, the sites for resettlement should be chosen as close as possible to the original
employment sources of the family members.
Lesson 12. Although the EMP called for a high level Environmental Unit, with executive and decision
making capabilities, loan agreement did not call for the establishment of such arrangement. Therefore,
the technical staff in the organizational scheme of EBY has always been unable to promote effectively
environmental issues and ensure a proper balance between environmental, financial and technical
concerns. Environmental issues in a project such as YacyretA require that environmental staff be placed at
the highest levels of decision making within the organization.
Lesson 13. Procurement and decision making procedures regarding contracts and legal agreement in
EBY were designed to deal with major infrastructure works and electromechanical equipment. EMP
activities involve a series of punctual and individual activities but of much lower amounts than any civil
works or equipment. However, EBY applies the same procedures to all transactions. Monitoring efforts,
carried out under Convenios with NGOs and other institutions, have to be approved through the same
cumbersome process each year. EMP activities have suffered delays because of these procedures,
creating delays in planning efforts by the environmental unit, and lowering morale in environmental unit
staff. The Bank could have prevented some of this problems but fail to do so.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Copies of the draft ICR were provided to the Borrower through the Ministry of Infrastructure and
Housing, and also to the implementing agency, Entidad Binacional YacyretA (EBY). In both
cases, comments to the draft ICR were requested, and both the Borrower and EBY were invited
to provide their assessment of the experience implementing the YacyretA project and working in
partnership with the Bank.
EBY provided in Spanish extended and detailed comments to the draft ICR which are available
for consultation in the project files. Most of EBY's comments were taken into account in
preparing the final version of the ICR.
- 23 -



Following are some substantive issues raised by the implementing agency EBY, including some
where their views differ from those presented in this ICR:
(a) Contrary to ICR's position, EBY considers that the Bank's no-objection to the raising of the
reservoir level to 76m, granted in 1994, cannot be considered as a mistake. When the decision
was adopted, the intention was to operate at 76m for only one year and then to move forward
toward the 83m level. Negative consequences were generated as a result of unanticipated
situations.
(b) EBY considers that the only real option for final operation of YacyretA is to raise the level of
the reservoir to its original design level of 83m. In this context, there is no need to search for an
"optimum level" of operation other than 83m. Operating at level above 76m but below 83m has
never been fully analyzed, it is not contemplated in the Binational Treaty and/or the legal
agreements with the Bank, and would probably imply higher cost than going to 83m.
Furthermore, EBY points out than raising the level to 83m was endorsed by the Bank's Blue
Ribbon Panel Report as the best option.
(c) Suspension of counterpart funding and changing original plans was not only the result of the
so-called " Tequila Crisis". Other factors, not explicitly cited by EBY, play a role. In addition,
following the Tequila Crisis, EBY and the borrower made efforts to overcome financial
constraints and continue with agreed upon plans.
(d) EBY considers that NGO interventions have not helped identify unforeseen impacts or
situations not properly anticipated by the implementing agency. There were unanticipated impacts
but EBY acted timely and effectively to correct them.
(e) When analyzing the project costs, EBY considers that financial cost should not be included as
part of project investments. This criteria was the one adopted by the Bank at appraisal.
(f) Finally, EBY points out that Argentina and Paraguay have never rejected the possibility of
private capital participation in the completion of the project. Parliament in both Argentina and
Paraguay rejected the option of transferring ownership over the entire project to private interest.
Private capital participation in fact is considered as a necessity in order to complete the project
and raise the level of the reservoir to 83m.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from Interamerican Development Bank
As cofinancier of the Yacyreta Project, the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) provided
detailed comments to the draft ICR. A full copy of IDB's comments is available in the project
files. Main points made by IDB are related to lessons learned during project implementation
stressing the following issues:
(a) During project implementation, EBY has been subject to excessive political pressures. As a
- 24 -



result, EBY has reacted to situations and problems under the influence of political circumstances,
and reacted to current events. Political considerations and interference are also responsible for
frequent changes in EBY's management and the associated discontinuities.
(b) Project was affected by an excessive concentration of decisions making authority in EBY's
senior management. This situation was responsible for delays implementing plans and agreed upon
actions.
(c) The bi-national nature of EBY generated difficulties and complications insofar as it forced the
project to operate with not necessarily similar criteria and rules.
(d) In spite of recent improvements, EBY was slow in recognizing above mentioned problems and
searching for solutions.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
See Annex 7 for list of additional information and supporting documents
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome /Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
(i) Provide an efficient supply of energy in the                            The 20 turbine generating units are delivering
mid 1990s by ensuring operation of                                          about 2/3 of their design capacity as long as
Yacyreta's first six units with adequate                                    the Yacyreta reservoir remains filled to level
transmission system                                                         76m only. To December 2000, Yacyreta has
delivered a cumulative output of 56,226
million kWh worth US$1,763 million valued at
the adjusted US$30 per MWh established in
the Yacyreta Treaty. Had the reservoir level
been raised to level 78m in 1995 and 83m in
1998, Yacyreta would have delivered a
cumulative output of about 74,400 million
kWh worth US$2,326 million valued at the
adjusted US$30 per MWh of the Treaty, or a
financial loss of US$563 million. The
financial loss is about US$1,620 million if the
cumulative output-not-delivered by Yacyreta
through December 2000 is valued at the
actual average retail price of kWh.
(ii) Tighter environmental protection and  The prolonged operation of the reservoir at  The Yacyreta reservoir was impounded to
appropriate handling of social aspects in    level 76m produced unanticpated  level 76m in September 1994. In May 1996,
Yacyreta                              environmental, resettlement and civil society  the parties agreed on Plan A to complete
problems.                             pending actions related to premature filling of
the reservoir to level 76m. The actions were
Mitigation of those problems is being done   completed in December 1998.
through Plan B requiring to: (a) resettle all
families from the land stripe 76m-78m; (b)   Plan B completed resettlement of all families
accelerate construction of sewerage system  of the strip 77-78m. Also the water treatment
for the cities of Posadas and Encamaci6n;   plant was built and the EMP was evaluated
(c) relocate a polluting slaughterhouse; (d)   by independent consultants.
control illegal squanters; and
(e) contract an independent evaluation of the
environmental management.
(iii) Private capital particpation in Entidad                               In April 1997, the Congresses of Argentina
Binacional Yacyreta (EBY)                                                   and Paraguay did not endorse an Agreement
between the GOA and the GOP --based on
the recommendation made by an
intemational consultant- to call an ICB to
select a private concessionaire for marketing
Yacyreta production, operating and doing
maintenance of the hydroelectric plant, and
completing the project.
Argentina succeeded in privatizing the 500
kV lines linking Yacyreta with the national
interconnected system. A toll paid for the
power and energy flowing through these 500
kV lines remunerates the owners of the lines.
- 26 -



Output Indicators:
lndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                 ActuaULatest Estimate
(i) Completion of Yacyreta's basic permanent                                The project completed: (a) an earth dam of
structures                                                                  about 65km long with a uniform elevation
above sea level of 86m, and a maximum
height of 42m (1996); (b) two spillways with a
total water discharge capacity of 95,000
m3/sec (1993); (c) a conventional covered
power house to lodge 20 turbine-generators
and their ancillary facilites (1994); (d) a
structure to allow up-stream passage of
fishes (1996); (e) a navigation lock for ships
of a maximum draft of 12 ft. (1996 (f)
permanent villages to house supervisory
personnel during construction and personnel
in charge of project operation (1993); (g)
about 90 km of roads linking Argentina and
Paraguay; and (h) a 1,500 m long bridge/dike
and water flow regulation over the Afia Cua
branch of the river. Works such as the
Arroyos'
(houses and infrastructure for the Creek
Overflow Program, COP) and sanitation
works, are on-going. The COP is expected to
be completed at the same time that the Plan
B.
(ii) Installation of Yacyreta's first six                                   The first unit was commissioned on schedule
generating units                                                            and began to supply energy to the 500 kV
national interconnected system in September
1994. Each of the second to sixth unit, as
well as the seventh to twentieth unit, were
commissioned a few weeks ahead of
schedule. The last generating unit was
commissioned in May 1998.
(iii) Implementation of the 500 kV                                          Private investors selected through ICB were
Yacyreta-Resistencia transmission link                                      awarded the construction, ownership and
operation of the 500 kV lines linking Yacyreta
to the national interconnected system. The
first phase was completed on time in 1994.
It comprised a 269 km long 500 kV line
between substations Resistencia and Rinco6n
in YacyretA, passing through the intermediate
substation Santa Maria. The second phase
was completed in 1997. It comprised a 507
km 500 kV line between substations Salto
Grande and Rinco6n in Yacyreta, also passing
through substation Santa Maria. Additionally,
a 85 km long 500 kV line was built between
substations Posadas and Rinc6n in
YacyretA.
-27 -



(iv) Implementation of Resettlement Program  Pending Actions:                  Families already resettled:
(a) Issuing of titles to 145 families in  period 1980-1992: 1,438
Argentina and 47 families in Paraguay;  period 1993-1994: 1,118
(b) Construction of the Municipal market in  period 1995-2000: 2,707
city of Encarnaci6n;                   Total resettled:   5,378
(c) Cany out a study on sedimentation in the  Urban families were resettled to 4 new urban
reservoir, particularly in the zone close to the settlements. Rural families were resettled to
main dam.                              6 rural places.
Families to be resettled: below level 83m:    AJso, 808 brick makers were either resettled
7,370 Creeks flooding: 3,258           into 3 sites and 209 compensated in cash for
Total to be resettled: 10,628          the loss of the raw material (clay).
Also, about 700 merchants and 460 brick
makers are to be relocated or compensated.
(v) Implementation of Environmental    Pending actions:                        The project implemented:
Management Program                     (a) Updated Environmental Management    Four new protected areas totaling about
Plan. It is not a requirement of Yacyreta II,  55,000 hectares were implemented: Apipe
but in order to raise the reservoir level above  Grande, Galarza, Santa Maria and Isla
79m, an updated environmental management Yacyreta. These areas are greater than the
plan needs to be prepared to the satisfaction area flooded by the filling of the reservoir to
of the Bank. The updated plan should   level 76m and are representative of the
include, but not be limited to, re-organization  ecosystem affected by the project.
of the EBY Environmental Unit, better budget A spillway built in the Ania Cua branch of
allocation, dissemination activities, and  river Parana guarantees a minimum flow of
preparation of operation rules for the  1,500 m3/sec maintaining the rver in a near
reservoir.                             natural state.
(b) Dedsion to build a 250 MW hydroelectdric A facility built in the main dam transfers
plant on the Ana Cud branch of the Parana   fishes up stream to allow them migrate,
river. Construction of this piant is not a  complete their breeding cycle, and maintain
condition of the Bank loan. however, in  the survival of the species.
addition to generating electdricity, the plant is A security zone in the Parana river to ensure
desirable because of its beneficial impact on  an effective control of illegal fishing.
the environment;                       A program to support two captive populations
(c) Retrofit of deflectors on the Main Branch  and reintroduction trials of globally
spillway, to reduce gas supersaturation  threatened Aylacostoma snails which lost
which harms fish below the dam;        their Parana River habitat when the reservoir
(d) Study of the relative biodiversity  was filled to 76m.
significance of natural habitat areas to be    A program to manage productive areas and
flooded between levels 76m and 83m,    provide a living environment to the
specially at the still unflooded Aguapey and   saffron-cowled Backbird or Chopi Sayju
Tacuary Valleys, and the extensive sand  (xanthopsar flavus).
dunes at 76m east end of Yacyreta Island;
(e) Construction of the slaughter house in
city of Encamaci6n. The site of the slaughter
is decided, its construction is under bidding,
and the approval of its environmental
assessment has been requested to the SEM.
(f) Construction of sanitation works in cities
of Posadas and Encarnaci6n.
(vi) Assessment of possible private capital                                    The assessment was done in 1995 by an
participation in EBY                                                           international consulting firm. The
recommendation to privatize Yacyreta was
rejected in 1997 by the Congresses of
Argentina and Paraguay. As a result,
expected completion of Yacyreta by prvate
investors did not materialize.
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Hydroelectric Plant                               1215.00        3028.00            249
Transmission System                                 10.60           1.00              9
Total Baseline Cost                               1225.60        3029.00
Physical Contingencies                            167.40
Total Project Costs           1393.00        3029.00
Total Financing Required           1393.00        3029.00
Total financing required does not include Interest During Construction
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivale nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB                            2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB         Other
1. Works                    380.10        0.00          0.00        73.40       453.50
(241.90)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (241.90)
2. Goods                    689.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       689.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 66.70         0.00          0.00        11.80        78.50
(48.10)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (10.00)      (58.10)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    1135.80        0.00         0.00         85.20       1221.00
(290.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (10.00)     (300.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
- 29 -



21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
Hydroelectric Plant     297.50    468.70    595.70    462.20    1084.30   1562.50   155.4  231.3  262.3
Transmission System (first    1.00  125.40    0.00      1.00      0.00      0.00    100.0   0.0    0.0
stage)
TOTAL                   298.50    594.10    595.70    427.20    1084.30   1562.50   143.1  182.5  262.3
Bank includes US$ 300 million from Loan 3520-AR and US$ 127.2 million from loan 2854-AR.
Government includes EBY, Central Bank, and National Government.
Co-financing includes IDB loans, suppliers, credits, export agencies, other sources.
- 30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 3. Al: YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT II
Economic Rate of Return - Incremental investment cost only (Supply to 500 kV lines)
l         _    ~~~~~Costs                                Benefits                                  |
Year   Investmernt (US$ nillion)   O&M    Total     Sales     Price   Revenues Net Benefit Net Benefit MUV
Generation Transmi Distrit US$miliIon US$million  (GWh)  US$/MWh| US$million US$million   2,ooo   Factor
_                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~US$million
1,992       141.8         _141.8                                                    -141.8.    -134.2  1.056.
1,993      433.5                            433.5                                   -433.51    41 1.7  1.053
1,994      430.9          _1    431.8                  354.9    30.00       10.6   -421.2    -385.7  1 .092
1,995      360.4           =          4     364.3    3,783.2    30.00      113S5   -250.8    -212.9  1.178
1,996      231.4          -33               264.0_   6,337.8    30.00      190.1    -73.9       -65.7  1.1 25
1,997     129.2                    5e      184.1   10,246.4    34.72     355.8    171.7       160.1  1.079
1,998       143.5                    55     1 98.6   11,733.9    30.98     363.5    165.0       1 56.8  1.052i
1,999       72.1          =43               11 5.3  11 ,879.8    30.41     36 1.3    246.0      240.2  1. 024
2,000        77.4.                   43     119.9   11,890.4    30.98      368.4    248.5       248.5  1 .000
2,001       101.0         =4A               144.0t  11,692.0    31.75      371.2     227.2      227.2  1.000
2002      202.0 -                  43     245.01  12,064.0    31.75      383.0     138.0      138.0  1.000.
2,003       252.0                    43     295.01  12,281.0    31.75      389.9      94.9       94.9  1 .000
2,004      252.0                     43     295.0   13,666.0    31.75      433.9    138.9.      138.9  1 .000
2,005      203.0          =5t               253.0   15,192.0    31.75      482.3     229.3      229.3  1.000
2006                    _5C                 50.(   19,405.0    31.75     616.1    566.1       566.1  1.000
2,007                     =5C                50.(   19,405.0    31.75      616.1    566.1       518.4  1.092
2,008                                50      50.0.  19,405.0    31.75|    616.1    566.1        480.6  1.178
2,009                    _ |         5t      50.(   19,405.0    31,75      616.1    566.1       503.2  1.125
2,010                     =5t                50.(   19,405.0    31.75      616.1    566.1       528.1  1.072
2,011                     =5t                50.(   19,405.0    31.75      616.1    566.1       538.1  1.052
2,012                                50      50.0   19,405.0    31.751    616.1    566.1        552.8  1.024
2,013                     =5C                50.(   19,405.0    31.75      616.1    566.1       566.1  1.0001
2,014                     -          5t      50.(0  19,405.0    31.75      616.1    566.1       566.1  1.000
2,015                     =5(                50.(   19,405.0    31.75'     616.1    566.1       566.1  1.000
2,016                                50      50.0   19,405.0    31.75      616.1    566.1       566.1  1.000
2,017                                5C      50.(   1 9,405.0    31.75     616.1    566.1       566.1  1 .000
2,018                     -          5t      50.t0  19,405.C0    31.75     616.1      566.1     566.1  1.000
2,019                                5t      50.t  19,405.0    31.75       616.1  5666.1        566.1  1.000
2,020                                50      50.0   19,405.0    31.75      616.1    566.1       566.1  1.000
2,021                                so5     50.l   19,405.0    31.75      616.1    566.1       566.1  1.000
2,022                     =5t                50.(-  19,405.0    31.75C     616.1    566.1       566.1  1.000
2,023                     -5t                50.t1  19,405.0    31.75      616.1    566.1       566.1  1.000
2,024                     =5t                50.t   1 9,405.0    31.75     616.1    566.1.      566.1  1 .000
2,025                                so      50.0   19,405.0    31.75|    616.1    566.1        566.1  1.000
Total     3,030.3                 1,455   4,485.1  500,221.4            16,14 4.8  11 ,660.6   11,470.7
1,730.3   =    =368   2,034.3  11 2,878.4                      3,571 .0    91 7.0    935.3 NPV
-31 -



Annex 3. A2: YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT II
Economic Rate of Retum - All investment cost (Supply to 500 kV lines)
Costs                                   Benefits
Year _vestme   (US$ millior O&M   Total   Sales    Price  Revenues|Net Benefi Net Benefit MUV
Generatio Transtribu US$mill JS$millic  (GWh)  US$MW US$millio US$million 2,0.   Factor
_________     1    _____ _  1_   _   7U1   I IS$m illion
1,979    266                     266          T       7        T  -266 2    -409.6  0.650
1,980    383                      383 1             T    T         -383.1   -537.3  0.713
1,981    220                     220                              -219.6   -306.8  0.716
1,982    161                      161      _         _             -160.7   -227.9  0.705
1,983     69                      69                               -69.4   -100.8  0.689
1,984    197                      197                             -197.2   -292.1  0.675
1,985    159                      159                             -158.9   -233.7  0.680
1,986    284                     284                              -284.5   -354.7  0.802
1,987    310                     310                              -310.0   -352.2  0.880
1,988    445                     445                   .           -444.9   -471.3  0.944
1,989    366                     366         _                     -366.0   -390.2  0.938
1,990    314                     314        _                      -314.1   -316.9  0.991
1,991    233                     233 _                             -233.4   -230.4  1.013
1,992    142                      1421                            -141.8   -134.2  1.056
1,993    434                     434        ___                   -433.5   -411.7  1.053
1,994    431                 1   432      354.9   30.00    10.6  -421.2   -385.7  1.092
1,995    360                4    364   3,783.2   30.00   113.5  -250.8   -212.9  1.178
1,996    231               33   264   6,337.8   30.00   1901    -73.9    -65.7  1.125
1,997     129              55    184  10,246.4   34.72   355.8   171.7    160.1  1.072
1,998    143               55    199  11,733.9   30.98   363.5    165.0    156.8  1.052
1,999     72               43    115  11,879.8   30.41   361.3   246.0    240.2  1.024
2,000      77              43    120  11,890.4   30.98   368.4   248.5    248.5  1.000
2,001     101              43    144  11,692.0   31.75   371.2   227.2    227.2  1.000
2,002    202               43    245  12,064.0   31.75   383.0    138.0    138.0  1.000
2,003    252               43   295  12,281.0   31.75   389.9    94.9         94.9  1.000
2,004    252               43   2951 13,666.0   31.75   433.9   138.9    138.9  1.000
2,005    203                50   253  15,192.0   31.75   482.3   229.3    229.3  1.000
2,006                       50    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,007                       50    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1   566.1    566.1  1.000
2,008       T _ _           50_   50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,009 __    T    |          50|    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,010 |  ____               50_   501 19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,011                       50_   50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,012                       50 _| s   50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,013 |      | __           50    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,014                       50    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,015                       50|    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,016 _ _ _                 50_   501 19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,017 ____        r   | 50         50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1   566.1    566.1  1.000
2,018                       50 ___ 50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,019 r      |    i   | 50         50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,020                       50    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,021                       50    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,022  _ _             |   50      501 19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,023                       50    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,024 |  ____| 50    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
2,025                      50    50  19,405.0   31.75   616.1    566.1    566.1  1.000
Total   6,438            1,455  7,893 509,221.4         16145.8  8,252.7   7,522.2
2,302             368  2,390  112,878.4          3,571.0  -1,535.4  -2,065.3 NPV
r  4.08%     3.35% ERR
- 32 -



Annex 3. B1: YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT II
Economic Rate of Return - Incremental investment cost only (Supply to spot market)
Costs                                    Benefits
Year vestment (US$ milli O&M  Total  Sales   SPOT  aragua Price Parag Revenues Net Bene Net Benef MUV
Trans &                  Total                  Spot   US$/  Total             2000
Genera CAM    Dis US$mi S$millit (GWh)  (GWh)  (GWh) US$1   MWh US$milI US$millic US$millio Factor
____        _____    _____         ~~~~ ~~~~MWh  _ _n
1,992    142 ___ _              142                   __                            -141.8   -134.2 1.056
1,993    434                    434                                                 -433.5  -411.7 1.053
1,994    431    0.5 _      1   432      355      355         27.02            9.6  -422.7  -387.1  1.092
1,995    360    9.7        4   374    3,783    3,783         25.27           95.6  -278.4   -236.3 1.178
1,996    231    43.3 _    33   307    6,338    6,332      6  23.69 30.00    150.2  -157.1   -139.7 1.125
1,997    129    57.6      55   242   10,246   10,061    185  19.92 32.46    206.4   -35.3   -32.9 1.072
1,998    143    48.8_     55   247   11,734   11,617   116  19.55 30.98    230.7   -16.6    -15.8 1.052
1,999    72    57.3       43   173   11,880   11,834    46  21.91 30.38    260.7    88.1    86.1 1.024
2,000    77    53.4       43   173  11,890   11,860    30  24.21 30.96    288.1   114.8    114.8 1.000
2,001    101    54.0      43   198   11,692   11,634    58  26.10 31.75    305.5   107.5   107.5 1.000
2,002    202    54.0      43   299   12,064   12,004    60  25.10 31.75    303.2      4.2      4.2 1.000
2,003    252    52.7 |   43   348   12,281   12,220      61  19.60 31.75    241.4  -106.3  -106.3 1.000
2,004    252    54.2      43   349   13,666   13,598    68  22.90 31.75    313.6   -35.6   -35.6 1.000
2,005    203    55.9      50   309   15,192   15,116    76  26.20 31.75    398.5    89.6    89.6 1.000
2,006          51.1       50   101   19,405   19,308    97  25.20 31.75    489.6   388.5    388.5 1.000
2,007          30.9       50    81  19,405   19,308    97  24.20 31.75    470.3   389.4   356.6 1.092
2,008          30.5       50    81   19,405   19,308    971 23.20 31.75    451.0   370.5   314.5 1.178
2,009  _       24.7       50    75   19,405   19,308     97  22.20 31.75    431.7   357.0   317.3 1.125
2,010           8.1       50    58  19,405   19,308    97  21.20 31.75    412.4   354.31   330.5  1.072
2,011           9.1       50    59  19.405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   379.7 1.052
2,012           9.1       50    59   19,405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   390.1  1.024
2,013           9.1       50    59   19,405   19,308     97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5 1.000
2,014           9.1       50    59  19,405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5 1.000
2,015           9.1       50    59  19,405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5 1.000
2,016           9.1|       50    59   19,405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5 1.000
2,017           9.1|_   50    59   19,405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5 1.000
2,018           9.1       50    59   19,405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5 1.000
2,019           9.1       50    59   19,405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5  1.000
2,020           9.1       50    59  19,405   19,308      97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5 1.000
2,021           9.1       50    59   19,405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5    399.5 1.000
2,022           9.1       50    59   19,405   19,308    97  23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5  1.000
2,023           9.1       50    59   19,405   19,308    971 23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5 1.000
2,024           9.1       50    59   19,405   19,308    971 23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5  1.000
2,025           9.1       50    59   19,405   19,308    971 23.59 31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5 1.000
Total  3,030    823    1,455  5,308_ 509,221  506,574  2,6461       _    11,936.8  6,628.5  6,572.7
r  1,.730t   3271  1368  2,304  112,878  112,246   764             2,620.1  -138.8   -80.2 NPV
I________1________r_______-_______= __   9.2%1  9.5% ERR
- 33 -



Annex 3. B2: YACYRETk HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT II
EBonomic Rate of Retum - Incremental investment cost only (Supply to spot market)
I            Costs                                      Benefits
Year bvestment (US$ milloi O&M    Total   Sales   SPOT  Paragu   Price  'aragua Revenues Net Bene Net Benefi  MW
Gen'tr Trans & Dis US$mil  US$mil  Total  (GWh) (GWh)  Spot              Total I US5mD   2000    Factor
I_I CAMM-                 __         (GWh)              US$/MW  US$/M  US$rnil           US$mill 
1,979   2661                      266                               _                  -266.2  -409.6   0.650
1,980   383       _               383                                                  -383.1   -537.3   0.713
1,981   220                       220                                                  -219.6  -306.8   0.716
1,982   161                       161                                                  -160.7  -227.9   0.705
1,983    69                        69                                                   -69.4  -100.8   0.689
1,984   197                       197 _                                                -197.2  -292.1    0.675
1,985   159         _              159            _1 -158.9  -233.7   0.680
1,986   2841                      284                                                  -284.5  -354.7   0.802
1,987   310     _                 310                                                  -310.0  -352.2   0.880
1,988   4451                      445                                                  -444.9  -471.3   0.944
1,989   366                       366                                                  -366.0  -390.2   0.938
1,990   314                       314                                                  -314.1   -316.9   0.991
1,991   233          _            2331                                                 -233.4  -230.4   1.013
1,992   142         _ _           142                                                  -141.8  -134.2   1.056
1,993   434        .              434                                                  -433.5  -411.7    1.053
1,994   431     0.5 _       1    432    355       355           27.02             9.6  -422.7  -387.1    1.092
1,995   360     9.7         4     374   3,783   3,783           25.27            95.6  -278.4  -236.3   1.178
1,996   231    43.3        33     307   6,338   6,332      6   23.69  30.00    150.2  -157.1   -139.7   1.125
1,997   129    57.6        55     242  10,246  10,061    185    19.92  32.46    206.4   -35.3   -32.9   1.072
1,998   143    48.8        55     247  11,734  11,617    116    19.55  30.98   230.7   -16.6   -15.8   1.052
1,999    72    57.3        43     173  11,880  11,834     46   21.91  30.38    260.7    88.1      86.1    1.024
2,000    77    53.4        43      173  11,890  11,860    30   24.21  30.96   288.1   114.8    114.8   1.000
2,001   101    54.0        43      198  11,692  11,634    58    26.10  31.75    305.5   107.5   107.5   1.000
2,002   202    54.0 _      43     299  12,064  12,004     60   25.10  31.75   303.2       4.2      4.2    1.000
2,003   252    52.7  _     43      348  12,281  12,220    61    19.60  31.75   241.4  -106.3  -106.3    1.000
2,004   252    54.2 _      43     349  13,666  13,598     68   22.90  31.75    313.6   -35.6   -35.6   1.000
2,005   203    55.9        50     309  15,192  15,116     76   26.20  31.75    398.5    89.6    89.6   1.000
2,006          51.1 _      50      101  19,405  19,308    97   25.20  31.75    489.6   388.5    388.5   1.000
2,007   _      30.9 _      50      81  19,405  19,308     97   24.20  31.75    470.3   389.4   389.4   1.000
2,008          30.5        50      81  19,405  19,308     97    23.20  31.75   451.0   370.5   370.5   1.000
2,009          24.7        50      75  19,405  19,308     97    22.20  31.75    431.71  357.0   357.0   1.000
2,010           8.1        50       58  19,405  19,308    97   21.20  31.75    412.4   354.3   354.3   1.000
2,011   _       9.1        50      59  19,405  19,308     97    23.59  31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,012 ____      9.1        50      59  19,405  19,308     97    23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,013           9.1 _      50       59  19,405  19,308    97    23.59  31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,014           9.1         50      59  19,405  19,308    97   23.59  31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5    1.000
2,015           9.1 _      50       59  19,405  19,308    97   23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,016           9.1        50       59  19,405  19,308    97    23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,017           9.1 _      50      59  19,405  19,308     97   23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5    399.5   1.000
2,018           9.1        50      59  19,405  19,308     97    23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5    399.5   1.000
2,019           9.1        50      59  19,405  19,308     97    23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,020           9.1        50      59  19,405  19,308     97   23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5    399.5   1.000
2,021           9.1 _      50      59  19,405  19,308     97    23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,022           9.1        50      59  19,405  19,308     97    23.59  31.75    458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,023           9.1        50      59  19,405  19,308     97    23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,024           9.1        50      59  19,405  19,308     97   23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
2,025           9.1        50       59  19,405  19,308    97    23.59  31.75   458.6   399.5   399.5   1.000
Total 6,438    823 _   1,455   8,716 509,221 506,574  2,646                  11,936.8  3,220.5  2,530.2
2,302    327 _      368   2,468 112,878 112,246    764                  2,620.1 -1,841.2  -2,364.5 NPV
________________________________________________________            1.9%     1.3% ERR
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a)Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Perfonnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Inplementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
n/a                        n/a   n/a
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1992                   1   Task Manager
1   Financial Analyst
1   Power Engineer
1   Anthropologist
1   Biodiversity/Environment
Supervision
SPN I                        I   Financial Analyst                   S             S
December 1992
SPN 2                        1   Task Manager                        U             S
August 1993                  1   Financial Analyst
1   Sanitation Engineer
1   Anthropologist
1   Biodiversity/enviromnent.
SPN 3                        1   Task Manager                       HS            HS
August 1994                  1   Sanitation Engineer
1   Resettlement Consultant
1   Anthropologist
I   Biodiversity/Environment
SPN 4                        1   Task Manager                        S             S
July 1995                    1   Sanitation Engineer
1   Resettlement consultant
1   Anthropologist
1   Biodiversity/Environment.
SPN 5                        1   Task Manager                        S             S
December 1995                1   Power Engineer
1   Sanitation Engineer
1   Resettlement
1   Anthropologist
1   Biodiversity/Environment.
SPN 6                        1   Financial Analyst                   U             S
March 1996
SPN 7                        1   Task Manager                        U             S
June 1996                    1   Financial Analyst
1   Power Engineer
- 35 -



SPN 8                         1   Task Manager                         U              S
August 1996
SPN 9                         1   Task Manager                         U              S
December 1996                 1   Financial Analyst
I   Water Pollution
I   Resettlement
I   Ecologist
SPN 10                        1   Task Manager                         S              S
June 1997                     1   Financial Analyst
1   Water Pollution
I   Resettlement
I   Ecologist
SPN 11                        1   Task Manager                         S              S
October 1997                  1   Financial Analyst
1   Water Pollution
1   Resettlement
SPN 12                        1   Task Manager                         S              S
March 1998                    1   Financial Analyst
1   Water Pollution
1   Resettlement
1   Environmentalist
SPN 13                        1   Task Manager                         S             S
June 1998                     1   Financial Analyst
I   Power Engineer
I   Environmentalist
1   LAC Vice President
1   Country Director Argentina
1   Country Director Paraguay
I   Environment Director
SPN 14                        1   Task Manager                         U             HS
October 1998                  1   Financial Analyst
1   Resettlement
I   Environmentalist
1   Water Pollution
SPN 15                        1   Project Economist                    U             U
June 1999
SPN 16                        1   Task Manager                         U             U
October 2000                  1   Resettlement
I   Water Pollution
I   Environmentalist
I   Financial Analyst
- 36 -



ICR
October 2000                1   Evaluation consultant
I   Financial Analyst
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                             206.5
Supervision                                                      1796.3
ICR                                                                50.0
Total                                                            2052.8
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                        OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Z Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                              O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
S Institutional Development              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
IEnvironmental                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
F Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Resettlement
 Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
DOther (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank performance                                 Rating
E  Lending                                          OHSOS  OU  OHU
M Supervision                                       OHS OS  *U  OHU
M Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  0 HU
Lending: Marginally Satisfactory
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS *S  O U  O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
M Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following additional information and supporting documents are available in the project file:
* Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission: (Annex 7 of SPN/ICR Mission, October 23, 2000)
* PCR on Argentina, Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project and Electric Power Sector Project, 1992
* PAR on Argentina, Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project and Electric Power Sector Project, 1993
*   Maps IBRDNrs. 14128R and 21188R
* Borrower and Implementation Agency Contribution (in project file): "EBY - Informe Final sobre el Proyecto
Hydroeletrico Yacyreta II Financiado por el Prestamo IBRD 3520-AR - Febrero 1, 2001"
* Tratado de Yacyretai y Normas Complementarias (Yacyreta Treaty)
* Inspection Panel Report
* Blue Ribbon Panel Report
* Progress Reports to the Board of Directors
* Staff Appraisal Report
* Memorandum of the President
* Loan Agreement
* Project Agreement
* Third Party Agreement
* Supervision Reports
* Project correspondence
*   Comments from EBY and IDB (in Spanish)
-40 -



-41 -






IBRD 29348
70'  J*                                          600'                                              50
-20        |   i?            BOLIVIA                !200
I                                /   -                     _ N                                                      4
PARAGUAY 1
,  S       an   lyovador                                           B  R  A  Z  I L
to        s@Salto       /s~   %% 'N                             /
A   #&_ ._  SALTA;   , ,,_,            \^Formosa/'
) (>     't;   Tuj4m6n          | CHACO-,,l
Q$I,  TUCUAINSANT AGO            Resistenciad'.aP       s oda s
% /,   q,y\, 0ts sSantiago del ,stero_,    rCrorrientes  r
DEL
I    1                10 ~. qCa marca      F
N            AS      ' ESTERO :                             ,
La  Rioa    \.                           t
SAN\ I/: RIOJA                   SANTA
-30        rJ * .r   SN   FE    )                                                                     D                                30t
\    (    S@SanJu'h   i     oRO        : Fe '0aan                                               K'\X :   -&:         -
JUAN    '                6doba  SnaPrn
,\F6RDOBAI\ 
z                 San                       ~~~~~~~~ENTRE
^Mendozo\   SonRIOS 
2  * j Me Suains /   2URUGUAY
LLJ   ~ ~SANI 
U        f    ?                  LU\SA Ne ;    f !.A.iLresIS
0      J MENDOZA:             ,      |,'
BUENOS                                      A T LA N T I C
Santa Rosa0
LA                 A IRES
_    )   .   ~ 4   PAM PA
_INEUQUEN l('                -.*j                                                       O
{JA  Neuquen*                                                    '                                         '-'   C EA-N-
RIO 
~40              (6'          N E GRO       ,     $..                                                                      .40'
ARGENTINA
$4 ('              {9G&fo ~~~~Nuevo
owson
't ' ;      CHUBUT 
CUB UT                                                      0 s    PROVINCE CAPITALS
s     X@  NATIONAL CAPITAL
_- -- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
K                                              -. g}  -9 ~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SANTA        /
(.<  '  CRUZ                         FALKLAND ISLANDS
(.4    (\  0              fMALVINAS)
-50-                                                                                                                              so-'SA  5
50   ct 5         ,      loGollegos                                         0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KJLOMETERS
I   I   I   I   I  I   I
uLM5DNr1 ATH6 RtN Wk     iOADMP          0      100    200    300    400AMiles
This mop was produced by the Map Design init of The world Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denomina_ihns _   Ionyother itformation shown
~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~on this moap do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Cmsw,, any
<  DEL FUJEGO)                         judgrrenon the legalstatusofany t-f trsriy, or ony ndorsement or
acceptance of such boundories.
70'                                              60'-                                              50'
LIA
APRIL 1 998



