Page  1
December 11, 1997 
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Mr. Miguel Angel Maidana Zayas 
Ministro de Hacienda 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
Asunción, Paraguay
Mr. Jorge Eduardo Pedreira 
Director Ejecutivo 
Entidad Binacional Yacyretá 
Avenida Eduardo Madero 942 
1106 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Mr. Joaquín Rodríguez Villalba 
Director 
Entidad Binacional Yacyretá 
Humaita 145, piso 11 
Asunción, Paraguay
Re:
Loan No. 2854-AR (SEGBA V Power Distribution 
Project) Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Loan No. 3520-AR (Second Yacyretá Hydroelectric 
Project) Amendments to the Loan, Project and Third Owners’ 
Agreements
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to: (a) the Loan Agreement between International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Servicios Eléctricos del Gran Buenos 
Aires, S.A. (SEGBA) dated June 30, 1988 (the 2854 Loan Agreement; as amended by, inter 
alia, the August 19, 1994 Loan Assumption Agreement among the Bank, the Argentine 
Republic and SEGBA), entered into with respect to the above-captioned SEGBA V Power 
Distribution Project; and (b) the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) dated November 16, 1992 (the 3520 Loan Agreement; as amended), 
the Third Owners’ Agreement among the Bank, the Borrower and the Republic of Paraguay 
also dated November 16, 1992 (the Third Owners’ Agreement), as well as the Project 
Agreement between the Bank and Entidad Binacional Yacyretá (EBY) also dated November 
16, 1992 (the Project Agreement; as amended), all three entered into with respect to 
the above-captioned Second Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project.  We are pleased to inform 
you that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank 
agrees to amend the 2854 Loan, 3520 Loan, Third Owners’ and Project Agreements as 
follows:
2854 LOAN AGREEMENT AMENDMENTS 
1.
Section 2.03:  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the date "December 
31, 1998" with the date "December 31, 2000".
2.
Section 3.01 (a):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words "and 
(iv)" with the words "(iv) shall:
(A)
by no later than June 25, 1997, open and thereafter maintain a 
trust account (cuenta en fideicomiso) in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and shall deposit therein the non-Loan 
proceeds amounts necessary to finance, in a timely manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, 
all activities (set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement) 
regarding 
resettlement of Additional Families living in Argentina, provided, 
however, that the proceeds of such account shall be used exclusively to 
finance the activities referred to above; and
(B)
without in any way limiting its obligations under subparagraphs 
(iii) and (iv) (A) above, deposit in such account the equivalent of at least 
$400,000 in 1997 and the equivalent of at least an additional $2,100,000 in 
Page  2
1998 (or such other amounts as may be determined pursuant to Section 3.04 of 
the EBY Loan Agreement or Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement);
(v) shall:
(A)
in coordination as necessary with EBY, carry out or cause to be 
carried out the activities regarding resettlement of Additional Families 
living in Argentina as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(B)
carry out or cause to be carried out measures to prevent the 
settlement of further Additional Families in the Yacyretá power plant 
reservoir area; and
(C)
if such further Additional Families settle in said reservoir area 
despite subparagraph (a) (v) (B) of this Section, carry out or cause to be 
carried out, in coordination as necessary with EBY, activities (of a nature 
and in a manner analogous to the relevant activities set forth in Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement, and as reasonably required for each successive water 
level 
at which the Yacyretá power plant reservoir shall operate for a 
prolonged period of time) regarding resettlement of such Additional Families;
(vi) for purposes of Part D of the Project, shall, jointly with EBY, carry out, or 
cause to be carried out, the EMP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance 
with the timetable and EMP execution responsibility assignments included in Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement and shall take all measures, satisfactory to the Bank, 
necessary to ensure the compliance, by EBY, of EBY’s obligations therein contained, 
including, without limitation to any of the Borrower’s obligations under this 
Agreement, the provision, promptly as needed, of the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the carrying out of the EMP; (vii) in the event that the 
Bank shall have approved the Revised EMP, as provided in Section 9 of the Third 
Owners’ Agreement, shall:
(A)
jointly with EBY, carry out, or cause to be carried out, such 
Revised EMP in accordance with the provisions thereof;
(B)
take all measures, satisfactory to the Bank, necessary to ensure 
the compliance by EBY of EBY’s obligations therein contained; and
(C)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the carrying out of the Revised EMP;
(viii) shall, jointly with EBY, complete or cause to be completed all components of 
the Pending Actions Program and the Base Program by no later than December 31, 1999; 
(ix) upon offer to the Borrower by EBY of resettlement or environmental works or 
infrastructure or properties in Argentina completed by EBY pursuant to Part D of the 
Project (the operation and maintenance of which would have been the responsibility of 
the Borrower, of any of its constituent provincial or municipal jurisdictions or of 
any Argentine public sector entity had EBY not existed), the Borrower shall either:
(A)
accept transfer of such works or infrastructure or properties from 
EBY under terms and conditions which include, inter alia, the assumption by 
the Borrower of maintenance and operation of such works or infrastructure or 
properties (in those cases where operation and maintenance of the works or 
infrastructure or properties would have been the Borrower’s responsibility had 
EBY not existed);
(B)
cause the relevant public sector entity to accept transfer of such 
works or infrastructure or properties from EBY under terms and conditions 
which include, inter alia, the assumption by said entity of maintenance and 
operation of such works or infrastructure or properties (in those cases where 
operation and maintenance of the works or infrastructure or properties would 
have been the responsibility of said entity or of a predecessor thereof had 
EBY not existed); or
(C)
exert its best efforts to cause its relevant constituent 
provincial or municipal jurisdiction to accept transfer of such works or 
infrastructure or properties from EBY under terms and conditions which 
include, inter alia, the assumption by said jurisdiction of maintenance and 
operation of such works or infrastructure or properties (in those cases where 
operation and maintenance of the works or infrastructure or properties would 
have been the responsibility of said jurisdiction had EBY not existed); and 
(x)"."
Page  3
3.
Section 3.01 (b):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words 
"Categories (1) (c), (2), (3), (4) (c) and (6)" with the words "(1) (c), (2), (3), (4) 
(c), (5) and (7)" and by replacing the words "Category (5)" with the words "Category 
(6)".
4.
New Section 4.02:  This new Section is hereby added immediately after Section 
4.01, and shall read as follows in its entirety:  "The Borrower shall:
(a)
have the trust account referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (iv) (A) of this 
Agreement audited for each six-month period, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the end of each such six-month period, the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
(c)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the end of each fiscal year, the consolidated report of such audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said trust account, 
as well as concerning the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.".
5.
Section 5.01:  This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety: "Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
that the EBY Loan Agreement, or the Project Agreement, or the Third 
Owners’ Agreement has been terminated before the completion of Part D of the Project;
(b)
that any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (e), (f) or (g) 
of Section 5.01 of the EBY Loan Agreement, as limited by the terms of the last 
sentence of said Section 5.01, has occurred (where such paragraphs or said last 
sentence refer to the project described in Schedule 2 to the EBY Loan Agreement or to 
a specific part or parts of said project, said reference shall, for purposes of this 
Agreement, be deemed to consist of a reference to Part D of the Project); and
(c)
that any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (i) or (j) of 
Section 5.01 of the EBY Loan Agreement has occurred (where such paragraphs refer to 
the project described in Schedule 2 to the EBY Loan Agreement or to a specific part or 
parts of said project, said reference shall, for purposes of this Agreement, be deemed 
to consist of a reference to Part D of the Project).".
6.
Section 5.02:  This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety: "Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
that any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall 
occur;
(b)
that any event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall 
occur; and
(c)
that any event specified in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.".
7.
Schedule 1:  The table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule is hereby amended to read 
in its entirety as set forth in Attachment A hereto.
8.
Schedule 2:  The last sentence of this Schedule is hereby amended by replacing 
the date "June 30, 1998" with the date "June 30, 2000".
9.
Schedule 4:  Section II of this Schedule is hereby amended by:
(a)
Numbering its paragraph beginning with the words "In order to" as 
paragraph 1;
Page  4
(b)
Inserting the words "(the Consultant Guidelines)" immediately before the 
words "published by the Bank" in said paragraph 1;
(c)
Inserting the sentences "For complex, time-based assignments, such 
consultants shall be contracted using contracts based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.", as 
part of said paragraph 1, immediately after the words "August 1981." in said paragraph 
1; and
(d)
Inserting a new paragraph 2, immediately after said paragraph 1, to read 
as follows in its entirety:  "Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each 
and contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not 
apply to:  (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection 
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.".
10.
Schedule 5:  Paragraph 1 (a) of this Schedule is hereby amended by replacing the 
words "Categories (1), (2) and (3)" with the words "Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5)".
3520 LOAN AGREEMENT AMENDMENTS
11.
Section 1.02 (d):  This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety: ""EMP" means the resettlement and environmental management program included 
in a letter from the Borrower and EBY to the Bank, of even date herewith (the 
"Original EMP"), to be carried out by the Borrower and EBY in accordance with Section 
3.08 of this Agreement and Section 2.12 and Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement (as 
such program is further detailed and supplemented by, inter alia, the Pending Actions 
Program and by the Base Program, which programs are thus deemed to be part of the 
EMP);".
12.
Section 1.02 (i):  This Section is left deliberately blank.
13.
Section 1.02 (m):  This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety: ""SE" means the Borrower’s Secretaría de Energía (Secretariat of Energy);".
14.
Section 1.02 (s):  This Section is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" at 
the end thereof.
15.
Section 1.02 (t):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the period at the 
end thereof with a semi-colon.
16.
New Section 1.02 (u):  This new Section is hereby added immediately after 
Section 1.02 (t), and shall read as follows in its entirety:  ""Additional Families" 
means families requiring resettlement as a result of the raising of the level of the 
reservoir of the Yacyretá power plant, which families settled in the area of the 
reservoir subsequent to completion of the census that served as a basis for preparing 
the Original EMP and were thus not covered by said census (it being understood that 
the Borrower is not responsible for carrying out activities regarding Additional 
Families living in Paraguay; see Third Owners’ Agreement Section 17 (c));".
17.
New Section 1.02 (v):  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new 
Section 1.02 (u), and shall read as follows in its entirety:  ""Base Program" means 
the program of actions, set forth in annexes to EBY Executive Committee Resolution 
3164/97 and approved by EBY Administrative Council Resolution 744/97, to be carried 
out by EBY with regard to works and other activities required because of prolonged 
operation of the reservoir of the Yacyretá power plant at 76 meters above sea level 
(as measured at the cities of Encarnación and Posadas); and".
18.
New Section 1.02 (w):  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new 
Section 1.02 (v), and shall read as follows in its entirety:  ""Pending Actions 
Program" means the program of actions, set forth in EBY Executive Committee Resolution 
Page  5
3096/96, to be carried out by EBY with regard to works and other activities required, 
in connection with the EMP, as a result of the prior raising of the level of the 
reservoir of the Yacyretá power plant to 76 meters above sea level (as measured at the 
cities of Encarnación and Posadas).".
19.
Section 2.03:  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the date "December 
31, 1998" with the date "December 31, 2000".
20.
Section 3.05:  This Section is left deliberately blank.
21.
Section 3.08 (a):  This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "For the purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, jointly 
with EBY, carry out, or cause to be carried out, the EMP in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank, in accordance with the timetable and EMP execution responsibility 
assignments included in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and shall take all 
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, necessary to ensure the compliance, by EBY, of 
EBY’s obligations therein contained, including, without limitation to any of the 
Borrower’s obligations under this Agreement, the provision, promptly as needed, of the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying out of the 
EMP.".
22.
Section 4.01 (a):  This Section is hereby amended by deleting the words 
"(including the Project Accounts)".
23.
Section 4.01 (b) (i):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words 
"three-month period" with the words "six-month period".
24.
Section 4.01 (b) (ii):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words 
"seventy-five calendar days" with the words "four months" and by replacing the words 
"three-month period" with the words "six-month period".
25.
Schedule 1:  The table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule is hereby amended by 
replacing the figure "241,900,000" in Category (1) with the figure "241,854,033"; by 
replacing the figure "47,500,000" in Category (2) with the figure "47,460,496"; by 
replacing the figure "600,000" in Category (3) (c) with the figure "599,925"; and by 
replacing the figure "9,000,000" in Category (3) (b) with the figure "9,085,546".
26.
Schedule 2:  The last sentence of this Schedule is hereby amended by replacing 
the date "June 30, 1998" with the date "June 30, 2000".
PROJECT AGREEMENT AMENDMENTS
27.
Section 2.01:  This Section is hereby amended by adding the following sentence 
at the end thereof:  "For purposes of this Section and of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, "appropriate/sound administrative practices" includes the practices set 
forth in annexes to EBY Executive Committee Resolution 3158/97 and approved by EBY 
Administrative Council Resolution 737/97.".
28.
Section 2.11 (b):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the date 
"December 31, 1994" with the date "March 31, 1999" and by replacing the date "November 
30, 1995" with the date "May 31, 1999".
29.
Section 2.12 (a):  This Section is hereby amended by inserting the words "and 
EMP execution responsibility assignments" immediately after the word "timetable".
30.
Section 2.12 (c):  This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety: "EBY shall, by not later than November 1, 1994, open and thereafter maintain 
an account or accounts in a commercial bank (which account or accounts shall, 
beginning no later than May 1, 1997, be in the form of a trust account or trust 
accounts (cuenta en fideicomiso)), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
and shall deposit therein in monthly installments the amounts necessary to finance, in 
a timely manner satisfactory to the Bank:
(i)
all activities (excluding matters relating to Additional Families 
as covered by deposits made in other accounts) under the EMP and, 
if applicable, the Revised EMP; and
(ii)
the Aguapey creek (Arroyo Aguapey) protection works,
such amounts to be derived other than from Loan proceeds and other than from proceeds 
of any Bank loan, provided, however, that the proceeds of such account or accounts 
shall be used exclusively to finance the activities referred to in subparagraphs (i) 
Page  6
and (ii) herein.".
31.
Section 2.12 (d):  This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety: "Without in any way limiting its obligations under paragraph (c) above, EBY 
shall deposit in such account or among such accounts, for the years 1995 through 1999, 
the equivalent of at least the following amounts (or such other amounts as may be 
determined pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement or Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement) in monthly installments:
(i)
$18,300,000 in 1995;
(ii)
$60,900,000 in 1996;
(iii)
$20,000,000 in 1997;
(iv)
$26,000,000 in 1998; and
(v)
$4,000,000 in 1999.
32.
Section 2.13 (a):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the date 
"November 30, 1994" with the date "December 31, 1997".
33.
Section 2.13 (b):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the date 
"December 31, 1995" with the date "June 30, 1999".
34.
Section 2.18:  This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "EBY may raise the level of the reservoir of the Yacyretá power plant:
(a)
beyond 76 meters above sea level (as measured at the cities of 
Encarnación and Posadas) only after obtaining the approval of the Borrower, Paraguay 
and the Bank, such approval to be based on completion, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, of:
(i)
for a raising up to 78 meters above sea level, all the actions set 
forth in the EMP and all actions set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; or
(ii)
for any of a number of possible raisings short of 78 meters above 
sea level: (A) all the actions set forth in the Pending Actions 
Program and the Base Program; and (B) all other actions set forth 
in the EMP and all other actions set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement as pertinent to such raising; and
(b)
beyond 78 meters above sea level (as measured at the cities of 
Encarnación and Posadas) only after obtaining the approval of the Borrower, Paraguay 
and the Bank, such approval to be based on the conditions stipulated in paragraph (b) 
of Section 9 of the Third Owners’ Agreement.".
35.
Section 2.21:  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the date "March 31, 
1994" with the date "June 30, 1997".
36.
New Section 2.22:  This new Section is hereby added immediately after Section 
2.21, and shall read as follows in its entirety:  "Pursuant to Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement or otherwise, EBY shall not permit parties to carry out functions originally 
assigned to EBY, unless such transfer of functions occurs through the application of 
bidding documents, controls or other instruments or mechanisms which allow, in the 
opinion of the Bank, satisfactory execution and continuation of the environmental and 
resettlement actions set forth in Part C.1 of the Project.".
37.
New Section 2.23:  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new 
Section 2.22, and shall read as follows in its entirety: "With respect to the 
environmental activities set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, EBY shall:  (a) 
maintain and implement mechanisms, satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate 
uninterrupted execution of, and sufficient funding and timely payment for, such 
environmental activities (including mechanisms to facilitate continuity and/or 
automatic renewability of contracts whereby EBY delegates performance of such 
environmental activities to other parties); (b) as part of its obligations pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, shall, beginning for the year 2000 and while the 
Yacyretá power plant reservoir operates at a level of 76 meters above sea level as 
measured at the cities of Encarnación and Posadas, provide the annual funding per 
environmental activity (to be adjusted annually on the basis of actual operational 
experience and inflation in Argentina) as set forth in said Schedule 3; and (c) as 
Page  7
part of its obligations pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, shall provide the 
annual funding per environmental activity (to be adjusted annually on the basis of 
actual operational experience and inflation in Argentina), in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank, as required for reservoir operational levels beyond 76 meters above sea 
level as measured at the cities of Encarnación and Posadas.".
38.
New Section 2.24:  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new 
Section 2.23, and shall read as follows in its entirety:  "(a) EBY shall continuously 
release a minimum amount of water of 1,500 cubic meters per second, over the spillway 
to the Aña Cuá branch of the Paraná river.  This minimum amount of water will be 
maintained until another solution mutually agreed between the Bank and EBY is adopted, 
based on available updated technical and scientific data, regarding minimum Aña Cuá 
branch flow requirements.
(b)
EBY shall operate the Yacyretá dam’s spillways in a manner that minimizes 
gas supersaturation in the Paraná river below the dam.
39.
Section 4.01 (b) (i):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words 
"three month" with the words "six-month".
40.
Section 4.01 (b) (ii):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words 
"seventy-five calendar days" with the words "four months" and by replacing the words 
"three-month", wherever they appear, with the words "six-month".
41.
Schedule 1:  Section I of this Schedule is hereby amended to read as follows in 
its entirety:  "Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the November 6, 1979 Yacyretá Project Agreement, except 
that:
1.
Works for Part C of the Project, estimated to cost $5 million equivalent or less 
per contract or per bid package, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I and paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 
and revised in January and August 1996 (the 1995 Guidelines).  In the procurement of 
works in accordance with this paragraph 1, standard bidding documents acceptable to 
the Bank shall be used;
2.
Works for Part C of the Project, required to respond to natural disasters 
(Paraná river floods) and estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the 1995 Guidelines; and
3.
With respect to all contracts covered by this Section I, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 1995 Guidelines shall apply.".
42.
Schedule 1:  Section II of this Schedule is hereby amended by:
(a)
Numbering its paragraph beginning with the words "In order to" as 
paragraph 1;
(b)
Inserting the words "(the Consultant Guidelines)" immediately before the 
words "published by the Bank" in said paragraph 1;
(c)
Inserting the sentences "For complex, time-based assignments, such 
consultants shall be contracted using contracts based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.", as 
part of said paragraph 1, immediately after the words "August 1981." in said paragraph 
1; and
(d)
Inserting a new paragraph 2, immediately after said paragraph 1, to read 
as follows in its entirety:  "Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each 
and contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not 
apply to:  (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection 
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
Page  8
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.".
43.
Schedule 2:  This Schedule is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set 
forth in Attachment B hereto.
44.
New Schedule 3:  This new Schedule is hereby added immediately after Schedule 2, 
and shall read in its entirety as set forth in Attachment C hereto.
THIRD OWNERS’ AGREEMENT AMENDMENTS
45.
Section 1 (f):  This Section is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" at the 
end thereof.
46.
Section 1 (g):  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the period at the 
end thereof with a semi-colon.
47.
New Section 1 (h):  This new Section is hereby added immediately after Section 1 
(g), and shall read as follows in its entirety:  ""Additional Families" means families 
requiring resettlement as a result of the raising of the level of the reservoir of the 
Yacyretá power plant, which families settled in the area of the reservoir subsequent 
to completion of the census that served as a basis for preparing the Original EMP and 
were thus not covered by said census;".
48.
New Section 1 (i):  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new 
Section 1 (h), and shall read as follows in its entirety:  ""Base Program" means the 
program of actions, set forth in annexes to EBY Executive Committee Resolution 3164/97 
and approved by EBY Administrative Council Resolution 744/97, to be carried out by EBY 
with regard to works and other activities required because of prolonged operation of 
the reservoir of the Yacyretá power plant at 76 meters above sea level (as measured at 
the cities of Encarnación and Posadas);".
49.
New Section 1 (j):  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new 
Section 1 (i), and shall read as follows in its entirety:  ""EMP" means the 
resettlement and environmental management program included in a letter from Argentina 
and EBY to the Bank, of even date herewith (the "Original EMP"), to be carried out by 
Argentina and EBY in accordance with Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement and Schedule 2 
of the Project Agreement (as such program is further detailed and supplemented by, 
inter alia, the Pending Actions Program and the Base Program, which programs are thus 
deemed to be part of the EMP);".
50.
New Section 1 (k):  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new 
Section 1 (j), and shall read as follows in its entirety:  ""Pending Actions Program" 
means the program of actions, set forth in EBY Executive Committee Resolution 3096/96, 
to be carried out by EBY with regard to works and other activities required, in 
connection with the EMP, as a result of the prior raising of the level of the 
reservoir of the Yacyretá power plant to 76 meters above sea level (as measured at the 
cities of Encarnación and Posadas); and".
51.
New Section 1 (l):  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new 
Section 1 (k), and shall read as follows in its entirety:  ""Revised EMP" means the 
EMP as revised pursuant to Section 9 (b) (i) of this Agreement.".
52.
Section 3:  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words "Section 2.17 
(b)" with the words "Section 2.17".
53.
Section 9:  This Section is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: 
"Argentina and Paraguay may cause the level of the reservoir of the Yacyretá power 
plant to be raised:
(a)
beyond 76 meters above sea level (as measured at the cities of 
Encarnación and Posadas) only if:
(i)
for a raising up to 78 meters above sea level, all of the actions 
set forth in The EMP and all actions set forth in Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement have been completed in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank; or
(ii)
for any of a number of possible raisings short of 78 meters above 
sea level, there have been completed in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank:  (A) all the actions set forth in the Pending Actions 
Page  9
Program and in the Base Program; and (B) all other actions set 
forth in the EMP and all other actions set forth in Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement as pertinent to such raising; and
(b)
beyond 78 meters above sea level (as measured at the cities of 
Encarnación and Posadas) only if:
(i)
EBY submits to the Bank a revision, satisfactory to the Bank, of 
the EMP (the Revised EMP), containing:  (A) a program to mitigate 
the environmental impact of, and to resettle the population to be 
affected by, such raising of the reservoir of the Yacyretá power 
plant, all in accordance with standards consistent with those 
included in the EMP; and (B) a financing plan for the carrying out 
of the Revised EMP; and
(ii)
the carrying out of the Revised EMP has been completed to the 
satisfaction of the Bank.".
54.
New Section 17:  This new Section is hereby added immediately after Section 16, 
and shall read as follows in its entirety:  ""Paraguay shall:
(a)
in coordination as necessary with EBY, carry out or cause to be carried 
out the activities regarding resettlement of Additional Families living in Paraguay as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(b)
carry out or cause to be carried out measures to prevent the settlement 
of further Additional Families in the Yacyretá power plant reservoir area;
(c)
if such further Additional Families settle in said reservoir area despite 
paragraph (b) of this Section:  (i) carry out or cause to be carried out, in 
coordination as necessary with EBY, activities (of a nature and in a manner analogous 
to the relevant activities set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and as 
reasonably required for each successive water level at which the Yacyretá power plant 
reservoir shall operate for a prolonged period of time) regarding resettlement of such 
Additional Families; (ii) open and thereafter maintain a trust account (cuenta en 
fideicomiso) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
and deposit therein the amounts necessary to finance, in a timely manner satisfactory 
to the Bank, all said relevant activities, provided, however, that the proceeds of 
such account shall be used exclusively to finance said relevant activities; and (iii)
(A)
have the trust account referred to in subparagraph (c) (ii) of 
this Section audited for each six-month period, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(B)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such six-month period, the report 
of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested;
(C)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year, the consolidated 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(D)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said trust 
account, as well as concerning the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request.".
55.
New Section 18:  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new Section 
17, and shall read as follows in its entirety:  "Upon offer to Paraguay by EBY of 
works or infrastructure or properties in Paraguay completed by EBY pursuant to Part 
C.1 of the Project (the operation and maintenance of which would have been the 
responsibility of Paraguay or of any Paraguayan public sector entity had EBY not 
existed), Paraguay shall accept transfer of such works or infrastructure or properties 
from EBY under terms and conditions which include, inter alia, the assumption by 
Paraguay or Paraguayan public sector entities of maintenance and operation of such 
works or infrastructure or properties.".
56.
New Section 19:  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new Section 
18, and shall read as follows in its entirety:  "Pursuant to Section 2.06 of the 
Project Agreement or otherwise, Paraguay and Argentina shall not permit parties other 
Page  10
than Paraguay or Argentina to have control, operation or majority ownership of EBY or 
of any part thereof, other than through the application of bidding documents, 
contracts or other instruments which allow, in the opinion of the Bank, satisfactory 
execution and continuation of the environmental and resettlement actions set forth in 
Part C.1 of the Project.".
57.
New Section 20:  This new Section is hereby added immediately after new Section 
19, and shall read as follows in its entirety:  "Paraguay and Argentina may carry out 
works for environmental impact mitigation with respect to the Aña Cuá branch of the 
Paraná river, only if such works are included among the alternatives recommended by 
consultants, and approved by the Bank, as a result of environmental and alternative 
analysis studies carried out by EBY.".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
three counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, 
please return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment 
letter will become effective as of its date on the first page hereof upon receipt by 
the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Myrna L. Alexander
Director, Country Management Unit
  for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
(for purposes of the 2854 and 3520
(for purposes of the Third Owners’ Loan 
Agreements and the Third
Agreement)
Owners’ Agreement)
By: _________________________
By: _________________________
    Roque Fernández
    Miguel Angel Maidana Zayas
Date: December 29, 1997
Date: December 19, 1997
EBY
EBY
(for purposes of the Project Agreement)
(for purposes of the Project 
Agreement)
By: _________________________
By: _________________________
    Jorge Eduardo Pedreira
    Joaquín Rodríguez Villalba
Date: December 18, 1997
Date: December 18, 1997
ATTACHMENT A
Amount of the Loan
Allocated (Expressed
% of Expenditures to be
Category
in Dollar Equivalent)
        Financed
(1)
Equipment and
100% of foreign
materials:
expenditures
and 100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(a)
under Part A
87,691
of the Project
(b)
under Part B
   96,715,641
of the Project
(c)
under Part D
    6,265,000
of the Project
(2)
Civil works under 
   76,178,000 56%
Page  11
Part D of the 
Project for the
Yacyretá power plant
(3)
Environmental 
         13,940,000
100%
protection works 
under Part D of
the Project
(4)
Consultants’ and
100%
experts’ services:
(a)
under Part A     
    5,420,898
of the Project
(b)
under Part C         11,493,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part D      9,652,000
of the Project
(5)
Resettlement works
   18,022,000 100%
under Part D of the
Project
(6)
Interest and other 
   24,634,642 Amounts due pursuant to
charges on the Loan 
Section 2.02 (c) of this
accrued on or before 
Agreement
September 14, 1995
(7)
Unallocated
               13,591,128
TOTAL
              276,000,000
ATTACHMENT B
Schedule 2
Activities for the Carrying Out of the Resettlement and
Environmental Management Program (EMP)
A.
Activities Pending Completion from Prior Filling of Reservoir to Elevation (EL) 
76m (Pending Actions Program) (Party responsible for execution of these activities:  
EBY)
1.
Institutional Strengthening
(a)
Contracts signed with internationally recognized environmental and resettlement 
specialists or team thereof for independent evaluation of the EMP, and for 
presentation of annual independent evaluation reports satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
International expert on environment contracted by EBY as Environmental 
Coordinator and international expert on resettlement contracted by EBY as Resettlement 
Coordinator.
2.
Infrastructure Works
(a)
Completion of communal buildings (day care center, primary school, health center 
and police post) in site A.3.2, including repair of deteriorated units.
(b)
Installation of well and water delivery system to production units of Nemesio 
Parma.
(c)
Completion of infrastructure (access road and school expansion) and permanent 
housing for the San Juan del Paraná rural settlement.
(d)
Improvement of access road, bridge and drainage in the El Porvenir settlement 
for small brick makers (this activity to be carried out after the province of Misiones 
transfers land titles to settlers in El Porvenir).
3.
Indemnification, Population Transfer and Issuance of Property Titles
Page  12
(a)
Indemnification of tile makers in Encarnación and indemnification of Argentine 
naval units at Garupá and Nemesio Parma.
(b)
Complete provision of property titles to all resettled beneficiaries.
(c)
Sign legal accord transferring responsibility for all works and services 
completed by EBY to the cognizant governmental entities.
4.
Socioeconomic Rehabilitation Programs
(a)
Maintain technical assistance to agriculturalists until the end of 1997 in 
Yacarey and in Caraguatá.  Continue the Reproductive Reconversion Program in the San 
Juan del Paraná settlement, to cease when and if so recommended by an independent 
evaluation, satisfactory to the Bank, of said Program.
(b)
Attempt to reach consensus with the Cooperative of Brickmakers of San Pedro, for 
the free provision to it of clay excavation and transport equipment (of a value equal 
to the cost of providing such clay to the Cooperative for five years).  In the absence 
of such consensus, EBY shall maintain the provision of clay for the remainder of the 
currently established five-year supply period.
(c)
Free provision of clay excavation and transport equipment to the Cooperative of 
Brickmakers of Nemesio Parma, as well as of access to EBY properties, located between 
EL 76 and EL 78, so as to allow clay excavation therefrom.
5.
Protected Areas and Biodiversity
Support the implementation of compensatory protected areas at Apipé Grande, 
Santa María and Galarza (Argentina) and Isla Yacyretá (Paraguay) by, inter alia, 
carrying out physical boundary demarcation, installing minor infrastructure, providing 
equipment, finalizing management plans, acquiring additional Isla Yacyretá land and 
financing other protection and management costs.
B.
Activities of the Base Plan to be Completed to Operate Reservoir at EL 
76m 
(Base Program) (Party responsible for execution of these activities:  EBY)
1.
Institutional Strengthening
(a)
Implement the new organizational structure, as well as the new administrative 
and legal procedures, for implementation of the Base Program, as approved by EBY 
Administrative Council Resolution 737/97, dated April 9, 1997.
(b)
Implement a Social Communication Program designed to inform all beneficiaries 
and affected people of the timetable for delivery of the Base Program works, goods and 
services together with another such program designed to inform the general public of 
Argentina and Paraguay regarding the progress and results of the resettlement and 
environmental programs (EMP).
(c)
Contract independent private firms to control the zone between EL 76m and EL 78m 
so as to prevent further settlement.
(d)
Submit two bi-monthly reports to the Bank detailing EMP implementation progress, 
covering both Argentine and Paraguayan margins of the Paraná river, prepared by the 
Environmental Coordinator and Resettlement Coordinator respectively.
(e)
Submit to the Bank consolidated Resettlement Monitoring Reports, covering both 
the Argentine and Paraguayan margins of the Paraná river, in accordance with the 
annual monitoring program.
(f)
Environmental training of the staff of EBY and those government agencies and 
non-governmental organizations which officially collaborate with EBY in the 
implementation of the EMP.
2.
Infrastructure Works
(a)
Construction of housing and infrastructure (streets, water supply, sewerage and 
electricity supply) in the A.3.2.C and A.1.C urban areas (Argentina), and construction 
of housing, infrastructure (stone paved streets, water supply, sewerage and 
electricity supply) and communal facilities (school, police, square and health posts) 
in Arroyo Porá (Paraguay).
Page  13
(b)
Construction of a municipal market in Encarnación.
(c)
Construction of elevated water tank in Villa Lanus.
3.
Indemnification, Population Transfer and Issuance of Property Titles
(a)
Indemnification, transfer and issuance of property titles for beneficiaries in 
sites A.1.C., A.3.2.C and Arroyo Porá.
(b)
Indemnification of properties affected by coastal treatment works in Posadas and 
Encarnación plus indemnification for areas to be acquired in Arroyo Porá and site 
A.1.C.
4.
Socioeconomic Rehabilitation Programs
(a)
Implementation of pre-transfer, transition, rehabilitation and community 
emancipation programs in sites A.1.C and A.3.2.C and Arroyo Porá.
(b)
Public health programs in sites A.1.C and A.3.2.C and Arroyo Porá carried out in 
the first two years following transfer of affected population thereto.
(c)
Maintain the contracts with an independent consultant for implementation of 
resettlement monitoring on both the Argentine and Paraguayan margins of the Paraná 
river; carry out said monitoring during first two years following transfer of affected 
population in both the Argentina and Paraguay margins.
5.
Water Quality
Completion of hydrogeological, topographical and geotechnical study in 
Encarnación, Garupá and Posadas and implementation of mitigation measures identified 
in such study and agreed with the Bank.
6.
Protected Areas and Biodiversity
(a)
Conservation of endangered snails (Aylacostoma guaraniticum, A. chloriticum, A. 
stigmaticum, and A. cingulatum) from the Yacyretá project area, through actions 
including:  (i) maintenance of at least two separate captive populations of each 
species; and (ii) carrying out of at least two attempts to re-establish wild 
populations within the Paraná river system (unless viable wild populations of each 
species are discovered prior to September 1998).
(b)
Preparation of an environmental management plan for the San Miguel Potrero 
settlement area to promote conservation of the threatened Saffron-cowled 
Blackbird/Chopy Sayju (Agelaius flavus) and its habitat in a manner compatible with 
the livelihoods of the resident human population.
7.
Special Studies and Mitigation Works
(a)
Identification, design and implementation of all coastal treatment activities in 
the EL 76-78 m urban strip, including localized erosion control, closure of latrines, 
removal of existing infrastructure and of existing biomass.
(b)
Relocation of  the Encarnación municipal slaughterhouse
C.
Activities to be Completed to Raise Reservoir Level Above El 76m to EL 78m
(Party responsible for execution of these activities:  EBY)
1.
Infrastructure Works
(a)
Acquisition of rural land for resettlement sites, installation of infrastructure 
and construction of housing for rural beneficiaries in Argentina and Paraguay.
(b)
Installation of infrastructure and construction of housing for urban population 
in Argentina and Paraguay who must be resettled from the security zone above EL 78m of 
approximately 1-2 meters, the precise dimensions of which shall be established by the 
hydrogeological, topographical, geotechnical study in Encarnación, Garupá and Posadas.
(c)
Replacement of affected roads, highways, bridges, railroad lines and other civil 
works affected in Argentina and Paraguay.
2.
Indemnification, Transfer of Population and Issuance of Property Titles
Page  14
(a)
Indemnification, transfer of population and issuance of property titles for 
urban and rural beneficiaries in Argentina and Paraguay.
(b)
Signature of legal accords transmitting responsibility for new settlements and 
all works, structures and services provided by the EBY to the cognizant governmental 
entities.
3.
Socioeconomic Rehabilitation Programs
(a)
Implementation of pre-transfer, transition and community emancipation programs, 
including agricultural technical assistance, in the new rural, urban and peri-urban 
settlements on the Argentine and Paraguayan sides of the Paraná river, such 
implementation to cease when and if so recommended by an independent evaluation, 
satisfactory to the Bank, of said programs.
(b)
Public health programs in new rural and urban settlements carried out through 
the first two years following transfer of affected population.
(c)
Provision of food assistance if needed for the first growing season together 
with technical assistance for re-establishing agricultural productivity of rural 
population resettled.
4.
Water Quality
(a)
Sewage collection and treatment systems completed in Posadas and Encarnación, 
including construction of:  (i) primary sewage collectors and interceptors; and (ii) 
sewage treatment plants or other adequate facility.
(b)
Selective biomass removal:  definition, prioritization and clearing of areas of 
biomass removal for EL 78m.
(c)
Implementation of treatment measures in urban refuse dumps to be flooded.
(d)
Formulation of regulations to control industrial water pollution in the Paraná 
river tributary basin of Paraguay and Argentina, and submittal of these regulations to 
the pertinent government authorities for their approval and implementation.
5.
Protected Areas and Biodiversity
Support the administration of additional compensatory protected areas (by, inter 
alia, carrying out physical boundary demarcation, installing minor infrastructure, 
providing equipment, finalizing management plans and financing other protection and 
management costs) to achieve a Yacyretá protected areas system totaling no less than 
64,000 hectares.
6.
Special Studies and Mitigation Works
Complete studies to define environmental guidelines for the operation of the 
reservoir and for water releases from the Yacyretá dam.  Prepare a manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the operation of the reservoir and for water releases, 
based on said guidelines, and comply with the terms of said manual.
5.
Cultural Property
Archeological survey and salvage, as well as historical building documentation 
salvage, for the EL 76-78m strip (including security zone).
D.
Activities Regarding Additional Families
(Parties responsible for execution of these activities:  the Borrower (for 
activities in Argentina) and Paraguay (for activities in Paraguay))
1.
Complete housing for additional families in Nemesio Parma.
2.
Installation of infrastructure for additional families in site A.4 (Argentina) 
and Itá Paso (Paraguay), including any necessary expansion of existing public 
services, structures and works.
3.
Transfer of additional families to site A.4 and Itá Paso (and other sites if 
necessary).
Page  15
4.
Installation of infrastructure for additional families in Argentina and Paraguay 
who must be resettled from the security zone above EL 78m of approximately 1-2 meters, 
the precise dimensions of which to be established by the hydrogeological, 
topographical, geotechnical study in Encarnación, Garupá and Posadas.
ATTACHMENT C
Schedule 3
Minimum Annual Recurrent Costs of Environmental Management
1.
Management of protected areas, including Isla Yacyretá, Apipé Grande, Galarza, 
and Santa María:  $300,000. 
2.
Monitoring and management of native fish:  $340,000.
3.
Monitoring of reservoir and river water quality (including gas supersaturation):  
$540,000.
4.
Monitoring and control of floating aquatic vegetation:  $120,000.
5.
Support for the monitoring and control of vector and water-borne diseases, 
including (a) vector monitoring and control and (b) clinical 
disease monitoring 
and treatment:  $730,000.
6.
Conservation of endangered  Aylacostoma snails (maintenance in captivity and 
monitoring of any reintroduced populations):  $20,000.
7.
Protection, monitoring, and research of the threatened Saffron-cowled Blackbird 
(Agelaius flavus) within and near the San Miguel Potrero 
resettlement area:  
$15,000.
8.
Environmental and water level monitoring of the Aña Cuá branch of the Paraná 
river:  $50,000.
