Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3520 AR
(Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 16, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3520 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 16, 1992, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   Parts A, C and D of the Project will be carried out by Entidad Binacional 
Yacyreta with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to Entidad Binacional Yacyreta part of the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Entidad Binacional Yacyreta;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-paragraph (l) and 
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ACAP" means the arrears clearance action plan to be carried out by EBY 
(as such term is hereinafter defined) in accordance with Section 2.09 of the Project 
Agreement (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(b)
"AyE" means Agua y Energia Electrica S.E.;
 
(c)
"EBY" means Entidad Binacional Yacyreta, a binational entity owned in 
equal parts by Paraguay (as such term is hereinafter defined) and the Borrower, and 
created under the Treaty (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(d)
"EMP" means the resettlement and environmental management program 
included in a letter from the Borrower and EBY to the Bank, of even date herewith, to 
be carried out by the Borrower and EBY in accordance with Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement and Section 2.12 and Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"EPP" means the emergency preparedness plan referred to in Section 2.21 
of the Project Agreement (as such term is hereinafter defined), to be prepared in 
accordance with the terms and conditions included in a letter from EBY to the Bank 
dated August 13, 1992;
(f)
"Nota Reversal" means any of the diplomatic notes supplementary to the 
Treaty (as such term is hereinafter defined) and exchanged by the Borrower and 
Paraguay (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Paraguay" means the Republic of Paraguay;
 
(h)
"Peso" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(i)
"Project Accounts" means the accounts to be maintained in accordance with 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and EBY, as such Agreement may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(k)
"Protocolo" means any of the Protocolos supplementary to the Treaty (as 
such term is hereinafter defined) and executed by the Borrower and Paraguay;
(l)
"Revised EMP" means the EMP as revised pursuant to Section 9 of the Third 
Owners' Agreement (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(m)
"SE" means Secretaria de Energia Electrica, the Secretariat of Electric 
Energy, under the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EBY pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such terms includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(p)
"Third Owners' Agreement" means the Third Owners' Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Borrower and Paraguay and the Bank in which the Borrower and 
Page  3
Paraguay have agreed to undertake certain obligations with regard to the execution and 
operation of the facilities of EBY, as such Agreement may be amended from time to 
time; this Third Owners' Agreement shall supplement the Owners' Agreement and the 
Second Owners' Agreement entered into between the Borrower and Paraguay and the Bank 
on November 6, 1979 (the First Owners' Agreement) and on November 18, 1988 (the Second 
Owners' Agreement), respectively;
(q)
"Treaty" means the treaty, dated December 3, 1973, between the Borrower 
and Paraguay in respect of the carrying out and operation of the Yacyreta power plant;
(r)
"UESTY" means Unidad Especial Sistema de Transmision Yacyreta, the entity 
established under the SE, by Decree No. 1174-92, dated July 10, 1992, of the Borrower;
(s)
"Yacyreta Loan Agreements" means the Loan Agreements, dated November 6, 
1979 and November 18, 1988, respectively, between the Borrower and the Bank, as 
amended; and
(t)
"Yacyreta Project Agreements" means the Project Agreements, dated 
November 6, 1979 and November 18, 1988, respectively, between the Bank and EBY, as 
amended.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred million 
dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
Page  4
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part B of the Project, through UESTY, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and electric 
power industry practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause EBY to carry out Parts A, C and D 
of the Project and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of EBY therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EBY to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(c)
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower, 
through SE, shall enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
UESTY.
(d)
The Borrower shall relend to EBY the proceeds of the Loan allocated to 
Categories (1), (2) and (3) (b) and (c) of the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EBY, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank which shall include, inter alia, financial terms identical, 
mutatis mutandis, to those applicable to the Loan under this Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (c) above and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such contractual arrangements or the 
Page  5
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, C and 
D of the Project shall be carried out by EBY pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limiting any of its other obligations under the Loan 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, by not later than February 28, 1993, and every February 
28, June 30 and October 31 thereafter, until the completion of the Project, review, 
jointly with the Bank, EBY and UESTY, and revise, if necessary, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, the financing plan for the carrying out of the Project, in 
order to ensure the availability of the funds required for the timely completion of 
the Project, and shall take all action, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure such 
timely completion, including the provision of the necessary funds as so required.
Section 3.05. Additionally to the Special Account, the Borrower shall maintain 
two Project Accounts in Pesos, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
shall keep in each such Account, at all times, a balance equivalent to 1/6 (one-sixth) 
of the amount allocated to UESTY and to EBY in the corresponding national budget for 
investments and operating costs for any specific year, respectively.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all measures satisfactory to the Bank, 
necessary to ensure that EBY carries out the ACAP in a timely manner, satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause UESTY: (a) by not later than November 30, 
1992, to enter into or cause to be entered into, the contracts related to the 
acquisition of all equipment, materials and services required for the construction of 
the transmission system included in Part B of the Project; and (b) by not later than 
October 31, 1993, to have the construction of at least 40% (forty percent) of such 
transmission system carried out.
Section 3.08. (a) For the purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall, jointly with EBY, carry out, or cause to be carried out, the EMP in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the timetable include in Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement and shall take all measures, satisfactory to the Bank, necessary 
to ensure the compliance, by EBY, of EBY's obligations therein contained, including, 
without limitation to any of its obligations under this Agreement, the provision, 
promptly as needed, of the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the carrying out of the EMP.
(b)
In the event that the Bank shall have approved the Revised EMP, as 
provided in Section 9 of the Third Owners' Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) jointly 
with EBY, carry out, or cause to be carried out, such Revised EMP in accordance with 
the provisions thereof; (ii) take all measures, satisfactory to the Bank, necessary to 
ensure the compliance by EBY of EBY's obligations
therein contained; and (iii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the carrying out of the Revised EMP.
Section 3.09. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, and by not later than June 30, 1994, the Borrower shall exchange 
views with the Bank, EBY and UESTY, with regard to the progress in the carrying out of 
the Project, the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the 
Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement and the Third Owner's Agreement, on 
the achievement of the objectives of the Project, including the carrying out of the 
EMP.
(b)
At least 30 days prior to the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, jointly with EBY and UESTY, and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
request, containing a description of the activities carried out by EBY and UESTY with 
respect to the Project and their compliance with their respective obligations under 
the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the 
Page  6
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement and the 
Third Owners' Agreement.
(c)
If, as a result of any of the above exchange of views, the Bank 
reasonably determines that the progress in the execution of the Project, or in the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, the Borrower shall 
promptly take, or cause to be taken, all such remedial action, satisfactory to the 
Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or for the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project, including the revision of the EMP.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts (including the Project Accounts) adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof, including separate records and accounts in respect of Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each 
three-month period audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than seventy-five calendar days after the end of each such 
three-month period, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year, the 
consolidated report of such audits by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) If the Borrower decides to carry out any major public 
generation or transmission project, the Borrower undertakes that any such project 
shall only be initiated if the Bank is satisfied that it meets the least-cost 
Page  7
expansion principle and has an adequate financing plan.
(b)
Without limitation to the obligations contained in this Section, the 
Borrower undertakes that it shall not assign any public funds to finance the 
completion of any major public generation or transmission project, unless the funds 
required for the completion of the construction of the Yacyreta power plant are duly 
secured to the satisfaction of the Bank.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section, the term "major public generation or 
transmission project" means any project which includes the construction of a facility 
costing the equivalent of $100,000,000 or more.
Section 4.03. Without limitation to the obligations contained in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower undertakes that it shall include in its annual national 
budgets, until 1995, the amounts equivalent to all necessary contributions it shall 
make to UESTY and to EBY to cover UESTY's investments and EBY's investments and debt 
service requirements, for each specific year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Treaty, any Nota Reversal, the Protocolo or any other legal 
instrument under which EBY has been created and is operating, or Decree No. 1174-92 of 
the Borrower, shall have been amended or waived so as to materially and adversely 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of Parts A, C and D of the 
Project or the operation or financial condition of EBY, or the carrying out of Part B 
of the Project, respectively;
(b)
any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the 
dissolution or disestablishment of EBY or for the suspension of its operation;
(c)
EBY shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower or Paraguay shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Third Owners' Agreement;
(e)
any event shall have occurred giving the Bank the right, pursuant to the 
Yacyreta Loan Agreements, to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals under any such Loan Agreements;
(f)
the right of the Borrower or EBY to withdraw the proceeds of any loan 
made to the Borrower or EBY for the financing of the Project or any part thereof, 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
(g)
any loan referred to in paragraph (f) of this Section shall have become 
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity therefor;
(h)
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that EBY will be able to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i)
the Borrower and EBY shall have failed to revise any financing plan for 
the completion of the Project pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement and Section 
2.08 of the Project Agreement; and
(j)
the Borrower shall have failed to take any action which, in the opinion 
of the Bank, is necessary for purposes of protecting the environment and resettling 
the affected population in connection with the execution of the Yacyreta power plant, 
additionally to those contained in the EMP, and, if applicable, the Revised EMP.
Paragraphs (f) and (g) of this Section shall not apply if: (i) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
and EBY to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate 
funds for Parts A, C and D of the Project are available to the Borrower or EBY from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement and of EBY under the Project Agreement.
Page  8
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (i) and (j) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (e), (f) and (g) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and EBY;
(b)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and UESTY; and
(c)
that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and 
in the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by EBY, 
and is legally binding upon EBY in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and EBY and is legally binding upon the Borrower and EBY in accordance 
with its terms;
(c)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and UESTY and are 
legally binding upon the Borrower and UESTY in accordance with their terms;
(d)
that the Third Owners' Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and Paraguay and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Paraguay in 
accordance with its terms;
(e)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower and Paraguay and by any political subdivision thereof in order to 
authorize EBY to carry out its obligations pursuant to the Project Agreement, together 
with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been performed or 
given; and
(f)
that the actions referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement have been taken.
Section 6.03. The date February 16, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  9
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios
   Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121952 AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo Cavallo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for          252,500,000        100% until with-
    Part A of the                               drawals under
    Project                                     this Category have
                                                reached an amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $130,000,000 and
                                                57% thereafter
Page  10
(2) Engineering services      37,000,000        100%
    for Part A of the
    Project
(3) Consultants services:                       100%
    (a)  for Part B
         of the Project        1,000,000
    (b)  for Part C
         of the Project        9,000,000
    (c)  for Part D
         of the Project          500,000
        TOTAL               300,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
Withdrawals may be made under Categories (1) and (2) of the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule on account of expenditures incurred after January 1, 1992 but not 
paid before the date of this Agreement, provided that the amount of such expenditures 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $60,000,000 in the aggregate.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to put into operation the first six 
generating units of the Yacyreta power plant, in order to ensure the supply of the 
required energy in the Borrower's territory starting in the mid-nineties; (ii) to 
ensure an appropriate environmental protection and the efficient handling of the 
social aspects related to the construction and operation of the Yacyreta power plant; 
and (iii) to motivate the participation of private parties in EBY's capital or 
administration.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out of the civil works for the construction of the Yacyreta power plant 
and the installation of the first six generating units therein, including engineering 
services therefor.
Part B:
Installation of the 500 kilovolt transmission system between the Yacyreta power 
plant and the AyE's substation located in the municipality of Resistencia.
Part C:
1.
Carrying out of the resettlement and environmental mitigation actions related to 
the execution of Parts A and B of the Project.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to EBY to determine the social and 
environmental impacts related to the operation of the Yacyreta power plant's 
reservoir: (i) at the 78 meters level; and (ii) at a level beyond 78 meters, if so 
raised in accordance with Section 2.18 of the Project Agreement and Section 9 of the 
Third Owners' Agreement.
Part D:
Carrying out of a study to assess the possibility of the participation of 
private investors in EBY's capital.
*         *          *
Page  11
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1997                                     6,965,000
November 1, 1997                                7,230,000
May 1, 1998                                     7,505,000
November 1, 1998                                7,790,000
May 1, 1999                                     8,085,000
November 1, 1999                                8,390,000
May 1, 2000                                     8,710,000
November 1, 2000                                9,040,000
May 1, 2001                                     9,385,000
November 1, 2001                                9,740,000
May 1, 2002                                    10,110,000
November 1, 2002                               10,495,000
May 1, 2003                                    10,895,000
November 1, 2003                               11,310,000
May 1, 2004                                    11,740,000
November 1, 2004                               12,185,000
May 1, 2005                                    12,645,000
November 1, 2005                               13,125,000
May 1, 2006                                    13,625,000
November 1, 2006                               14,145,000
May 1, 2007                                    14,680,000
November 1, 2007                               15,240,000
May 1, 2008                                    15,820,000
November 1, 2008                               16,420,000
May 1, 2009                                    17,045,000
November 1, 2009                               17,680,000
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity
Page  12
More than thirteen years                         1.00
      before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  13
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
