Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3520 AR
(Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 16, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3520 AR
THIRD OWNERS' AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 16, 1992, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (hereinafter 
called Argentina) and REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (hereinafter called Paraguay) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) Argentina, Paraguay and the Bank have entered into the Owners' 
Agreement, dated November 6, 1979, (the First Owners' Agreement) and into the Second 
Owners' Agreement, dated November 18, 1988, in respect of Entidad Binacional Yacyreta 
(EBY) and the carrying out of the Yacyreta Project (as such term is hereinafter 
defined);
(B)
Argentina and Paraguay hereby represent that under their respective 
constitutions and legislation they are authorized and empowered to enter into this 
supplement to the First and Second Owners' Agreement (the Third Owners' Agreement);
(C)
by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Argentina and the Bank 
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to lend to Argentina for 
purposes of, inter alia, carrying out Parts A, C and D of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three 
hundred million dollars ($300,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(D)
Part A of the Project consists of civil works and engineering services 
Page  2
for purposes of completing the project described in the Preamble to the First Owners' 
Agreement;
(E)
Paraguay and Argentina have authorized EBY to enter into the Project 
Agreement which provides for the carrying out of Parts A, C and D of the Project by 
EBY; and
(F)
in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Project Agreement with 
EBY, Argentina and Paraguay have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set 
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"EBY" means Entidad Binacional Yacyreta, a binational entity owned in 
equal parts by Paraguay and Argentina, and created under the Treaty;
(b)
"Nota Reversal" means any of the diplomatic notes supplementing the 
Treaty and exchanged between Paraguay and Argentina;
(c)
"Parts A, C and D of the Project" means Part A, C and D of the Project as 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the project agreement between the Bank and EBY 
of even date herewith whereby EBY undertakes to carry out Parts A, C and D of the 
Project;
(e)
"Protocolo" means any of the protocolos supplementing the Treaty (as such 
term is hereinafter defined) and signed between Argentina and Paraguay;
(f)
"Treaty" means the treaty, dated December 3, 1973, between Argentina and 
Paraguay in respect of the carrying out and operation of the Yacyreta power plant; and
(g)
"Yacyreta Project" means the project described in the First and the 
Second Owners' Agreements.
Section 2. Argentina and Paraguay, in accordance with their rights and 
obligations under the Treaty and the applicable Notas Reversales, shall exercise their 
rights thereunder so as to ensure that at all times after the completion of the 
Yacyreta Project the contracted capacity (potencia contratada) of EBY is equal to its 
installed capacity (potencia instalada), as such terms are defined in Annex "C" to the 
Treaty.
Section 3. Argentina and Paraguay shall, each of them promptly as needed, take 
all legislative and other measures necessary for purposes of EBY's acquiring the land 
or the rights in respect of land referred to in Section 2.17 (b) of the Project 
Agreement, all as provided in Article XVII of the Treaty in respect of the approval by 
Argentina and Paraguay of the definition by EBY of the land forming part of the 
territories of both countries and needed by EBY for purposes of the Yacyreta Project.
Section 4. Whenever Argentina and Paraguay shall cause EBY to undertake new 
projects or expansion or modification of the Yacyreta Project, Argentina and Paraguay 
shall take measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that such project or 
expansion or modification will not materially and adversely affect the execution of 
Parts A and B of the Yacyreta Project or the operation of the facilities included in 
Part A of the Yacyreta Project.
Section 5. Argentina and Paraguay shall take all necessary measures in respect 
of Article VI of the Treaty to ensure the demarcation of their common boundary in the 
area of the Yacyreta Project six months before any proposed action related to the 
Yacyreta Project which would alter the natural course of the Parana River.
Section 6. Argentina and Paraguay shall take all necessary measures to ensure 
that EBY will, six months before the date on which the power plant included in the 
Yacyreta Project is scheduled to start to operate, furnish to the Bank a program for 
putting into effect the rate system provided for in the Treaty, such program to 
include a method of valuation of the paid-in capital of EBY satisfactory to Argentina 
and Paraguay.
Section 7. Argentina and Paraguay shall permit or cause EBY to perform duly all 
Page  3
its obligations under the Project Agreement, and Argentina and Paraguay shall not 
take, or cause or permit any of the political subdivisions or agencies of either of 
them or any agency of any such political subdivision to take, an action which would 
prevent or interfere with the performance by EBY of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 8. (a) Argentina and Paraguay shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Yacyreta Project, the 
performance of the obligations of each of them under this Agreement and the 
performance by EBY of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
Argentina and Paraguay shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which adversely affects or may affect the progress of the Yacyreta Project, or the 
performance of the obligations of either of them under this Agreement, or the 
performance by EBY of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 9.  Argentina and Paraguay may cause the level of the reservoir of the 
Yacyreta power plant to be raised beyond 78 meters only if:
(a)
EBY submits to the Bank a revision, satisfactory to the Bank, of the EMP 
(the Revised EMP), containing: (i) a program to mitigate the environmental impact of, 
and to resettle the population to be affected by, such raising of the reservoir of the 
Yacyreta power plant, all in accordance with standards consistent with those included 
in the EMP; and (ii) a financing plan for the carrying out of the Revised EMP; and
(b)
the carrying out of the Revised EMP has been completed to the 
satisfaction of the Bank. 
Section 10. Argentina and Paraguay shall:
(a)
by not later than October 31, 1993, exchange views with the Bank on the 
recommendations of the study referred to in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement; and
(b)
promptly take all actions necessary to enable EBY to carry out the plan 
of actions referred to in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, as stipulated in 
paragraph (d) of said Section.
Section 11. This Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from any 
taxes or fees that shall be imposed under the laws of Argentina or Paraguay or laws in 
effect in the territories of Argentina or Paraguay on or in connection with the 
execution, issue, delivery, registration, recording or filing thereof. 
Section 12. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Project Agreement becomes effective.
Section 13. This Agreement and all obligations of Argentina, Paraguay and the 
Bank thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Project Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 14. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be delivered by hand or by 
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Argentina:
Ministerio de Economia
   y Obras y Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121952 AR
 
For Paraguay:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Page  4
Asuncion
Paraguay
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIHACIENDA  
URW CO PYAN 080
Asuncion
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 15. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of:
(a)
Argentina, may be taken or executed by the Ministro de Economia y Obras y 
Servicios Publicos or such other person or persons as the Ministro de Economia y Obras 
y Servicios Publicos shall designate in writing, and Argentina shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each person.
(b)
Paraguay, may be taken or executed by the Ministro de Hacienda or such 
other person or persons as the Ministro de Hacienda shall designate in writing, and 
Paraguay shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each person.
Section 16. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo Cavallo
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s/ Juan Jose Diaz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  5
