Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3520 AR
(Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Dated November 16, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3520 AR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 16, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETa (EBY).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three hundred million dollars 
($300,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that EBY agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and EBY, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be made available to EBY on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS EBY, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EBY declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts 
A, C and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. EBY shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, C and D of the Project.
Section 2.04. EBY shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EBY shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EBY shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the carrying out of Parts A, C and D of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
EBY shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the carrying out of Parts A, C and D of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by EBY of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. EBY shall:
(a)
by not later than March 31, 1993, employ the consultants for the carrying 
out of the study included in Part D of the Project; 
(b)
by not later than August 31, 1993, carry out such study and furnish to 
the Bank, for comments, the recommendations of said consultants;
(c)
by not later than November 30, 1993, furnish to the Borrower, Paraguay, 
and the Bank a plan of actions, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of the 
recommendations agreed upon by the Borrower, Paraguay, and the Bank; and
(d)
promptly thereafter, start the carrying out of such plan of actions in a 
timely manner, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.07. EBY shall take, in a timely manner, all necessary actions 
satisfactory to the Bank to improve its administrative and managerial efficiency, such 
actions to be based on the recommendations of the management audit study carried out 
by EBY.
Section 2.08. Without in any way limiting any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement, EBY shall, by not later than February 28, 1993 and every February 
28, June 30 and October 31 thereafter, until the completion of the Project, review, 
jointly with the Borrower and the Bank, and revise, if necessary, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, the financing plan for the carrying out of the Project, in 
Page  3
order to ensure the availability of the funds required for the timely completion of 
the Project, and shall take all action, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure such 
timely completion.
Section 2.09. EBY shall carry out the ACAP in a timely manner, satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 2.10. EBY shall:
(a)
by not later than November 30, 1992, prepare and furnish to the Bank the 
outline of a media campaign, satisfactory to the Bank, aiming at informing the public 
that: (i) eventual severe floods in the area where the Yacyreta power plant is being 
constructed are due to natural river conditions and not attributable to such 
construction; and (ii) during the operation of the dam all measures will be taken by 
EBY to avoid, to the maximum possible extent, any such floods, by the utilization of 
the existing control facilities of the dam; and
(b)
by not later than March 31, 1993, start the carrying out of such 
campaign, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 2.11. (a) EBY shall carry out a study on the sedimentation of the area 
surrounding the Yacyreta power plant as well as on the estimation of the useful life 
of its reservoir, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
EBY shall furnish to the Bank: (i) by not later than April 30, 1993, the 
preliminary results of such study; and  (ii) by not later than January 31, 1994, the 
final results of such study.
Section 2.12. (a) For the purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, EBY shall carry 
out, jointly with the Borrower, or cause to be carried out, the EMP in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the timetable included in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
(b)
In the event that the Bank approves the Revised EMP, as provided in 
Section 9 of the Third Owners' Agreement, EBY shall carry out, jointly with the 
Borrower, or cause to be carried out, the Revised EMP in accordance with the 
provisions thereof.
(c)
EBY shall, by not later than November 1, 1994, open and thereafter 
maintain an account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, and shall deposit therein the amounts necessary to finance, in a timely manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, all activities under the EMP and, if applicable, the Revised 
EMP, and the Aguapey creek (Arroyo Aguapey) protection works, such amounts to be 
derived from the sale of electricity originating from the Yacyreta power plant or from 
any other source, provided, however, that the proceeds of such account shall be used 
exclusively to finance the activities referred to above.
(d)
Without in any way limiting its obligations under paragraph (c) above, 
EBY shall deposit in such account, for the years 1995 through 1998, the equivalent of 
at least:
(i)
$18,300,000 in 1995;
 
(ii)
$60,900,000 in 1996;
 
(iii)
$101,600,000 in 1997; and
 
(iv)
$20,700,000 in 1998.
 
Section 2.13. EBY shall:
(a)
by not later than March 31, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Bank the 
designs for a river basin flood forecasting system and an advance warning system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure the protection of the population living near the 
Yacyreta power plant against floods; and
(b)
by not later than June 30, 1994, put in operation such systems, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.14. EBY shall maintain the panel of experts referred to in Section 
2.07 of the Yacyreta Project Agreements and shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, by 
not later than January 1, 1993, a program of periodic reviews of dam safety to be 
Page  4
conducted by experts, acceptable to the Bank, such program to  cover the entire useful 
life of the dam and to be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.15. Until the completion of the Project, EBY shall retain a 
consultant, acceptable to the Bank, to be hired in accordance with Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for the purposes of preparing and furnishing to the Bank 
and to EBY's international creditors monthly reports, satisfactory to the Bank, on the 
progress in the carrying out of the Project and on any technical, financial, 
managerial or administrative problem which, in the opinion of such consultant, could 
affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.16. (a) EBY shall furnish to the Bank all plans, specifications, 
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the 
Project, which have not already been provided to the Bank pursuant to the Yacyreta 
Project Agreements, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
EBY: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate to record and 
monitor the progress of the carrying out of Parts A, C and D of the Project (including 
their cost and the benefits to be derived from them), to identify the services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in such Parts of 
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the 
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and any relevant records and 
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, 
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of such 
proceeds and the services financed therewith.
(c)
Promptly after completion of Parts A, C and D of the Project, EBY shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Yacyreta power 
plant, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by 
EBY of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Project.
(d)
EBY shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants, 
installations, sites, works, building, property and equipment of EBY and any relevant 
records and documents.
Section 2.17. EBY shall take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, 
as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required 
for the execution and operation of the Yacyreta power plant and shall furnish to the 
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that such 
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the execution 
and operation of the Yacyreta power plant.
Section 2.18. EBY may raise the level of the reservoir of the Yacyreta power 
plant beyond 78 meters only after obtaining the approval of the Borrower, Paraguay and 
the Bank, such approval to be based on the conditions stipulated in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) of Section 9 of the Third Owners' Agreement. 
Section 2.19. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, and by not later than June 30, 1994, EBY shall exchange views with 
the Borrower and the Bank, with regard to the progress in carrying out the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and on the achievement of the objectives of the Project, including the 
carrying out of the EMP; and
(b)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank reasonably 
determines that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of 
the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, EBY shall promptly take, or cause 
to be taken, all such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary 
for the efficient execution of the Project or for the achievement of the objectives of 
the Project, including the revision of the EMP, in accordance with the recommendations 
of the report referred to in Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.20. EBY shall, by not later than June 30, 1993, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a report containing the final recommendations of the study presently being 
carried out by EBY, on the review of the design of the protection works of the Aguapey 
creek (Arroyo Aguapey), in order to reduce the costs of the carrying out of such 
works.
Page  5
Section 2.21. EBY shall, by not later than June 30, 1993, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank the EPP, satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EBY
Section 3.01. EBY shall carry on its operations, conduct its affairs and 
maintain its financial position, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
financial and public utilities practices under The supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EBY shall: (a) at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and public utilities practices; and
(b)
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, cause the Yacyreta power 
plant and related structures constructed under the Project to be periodically 
inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine whether 
there are any deficiencies in the condition of such plant and structures or in the 
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same, which may 
endanger their safety. To this end, EBY shall propose to the Bank appropriate 
arrangements for the Bank's review no later than one year before the expected 
completion of such plant and structures.
Section 3.03. EBY shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. EBY shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of 
its properties or assets required for the efficient carrying out of its business and 
undertaking, including the carrying out of the Project, except in the normal course of 
its business or with the prior agreement of the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EBY shall maintain records and accounts (including separate 
accounts for the Project), adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
EBY shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts (including the account referred to in 
Section 2.12 (c) of this Agreement) and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each three month period audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than seventy-five calendar days after the end of each such 
three-month period: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such three-month period as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year: (A) 
certified copies of its consolidated financial statements for such 
year as so audited; and (B) the consolidated report of such audits 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) EBY shall: (i) by October 31 in each year during the execution 
of Parts A, C and D of the Project and starting on October 31, 1992, furnish to the 
Page  6
Bank a report on the long-term debt contracted by EBY during the previous twelve 
months and the long-term debt proposed to be contracted by EBY during the following 
twelve-month period, such report to be in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and (ii) exchange views with the Bank thereon.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EBY shall not incur short-term 
debt unless the short-term debt to be incurred, when added to the total short-term 
debt of EBY does not exceed the higher of 10% of the total debt of EBY, including the 
short-term debt to be incurred, or 100% of the long-term debt contracted by EBY with 
private banks, exclusive of export credits, and not yet drawn down.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"long-term debt" means any debt incurred by EBY and maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred;
(ii)
"short-term debt" means any overdraft or debt incurred by EBY and 
maturing by its terms one year or less than one year after the 
date on which it is originally incurred;
(iii)
"debt" means the total of long-term and short-term debt; and
 
(iv)
long-term and short-term debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) 
under a loan agreement, on the date it is drawn down but only to 
the extent that it is outstanding; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date such agreement is entered into.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of EBY 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify EBY thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Enforceability of Project Agreement
Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 6.01. The rights and obligations of the Bank and EBY under this 
Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms 
notwithstanding the law of any state or political subdivision thereof, to the 
contrary.
Section 6.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power 
or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any 
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof of any acquiescence 
in such default, nor shall any action of such party in respect of any default, or any 
acquiescence by it in any default, affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such 
party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 6.03. Arbitration. (a) Any controversy between the Bank and EBY and any 
claim by the Bank against EBY or by EBY against the Bank arising under this Agreement 
which shall not be determined by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to 
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank, on the one side, and 
EBY, on the other side.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Bank; one arbitrator shall be 
appointed by EBY; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) 
Page  7
shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the 
President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by him, by the 
Secretary General of the United Nations. If the Bank shall fail to appoint its 
arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator 
appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to act, a 
successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for 
the appointment of the original arbitrator and such successor shall have all the 
powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other parties. Such notice 
shall contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration and the nature of the relief sought. Within thirty (30) days 
after the giving of such notice, each side shall notify the other side of the 
arbitrator appointed by it.
(e)
If within sixty (60) days after the giving of such notice instituting the 
arbitration proceeding the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may 
request the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section. 
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g)
Subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the parties shall 
otherwise agree, the Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal 
shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
and binding upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply 
with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
reasonable under the circumstances. The Bank and EBY shall defray their own respective 
expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be 
divided between and borne equally by the Bank, on the one side, and EBY, on the other. 
Any question concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the 
procedure for payment of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the determination of controversies between the parties to 
this Agreement or any claim by the Bank against EBY or by EBY against the Bank arising 
hereunder.
(k)
If within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award shall be 
delivered to the parties the award shall not be complied with, any party may enter 
judgement upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of 
competent jurisdiction against any other party, may enforce such judgement by 
execution or may pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for the 
enforcement of the award or the provisions of this Agreement.
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section may be made upon the parties to this Agreement in the manner 
provided in Section 7.01 of this Agreement. The parties to this Agreement waive any 
and all other requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Page  8
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For EBY:
(1)
Entidad Binacional Yacyreta
Ave. Eduardo Madero 942 - Piso 22
Buenos Aires 1106
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
YACYRETA 
22659 YAC AR
Baires
(2)
Entidad Binacional Yacyreta
Humaita 145 - Piso 11
Asuncion
Paraguay
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
YACYRETA 44070-PY 
YACYRETA
Asuncion
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EBY, or by EBY 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the 
Director Ejecutivo and the Director or such other person or persons as the Director 
Ejecutivo and the Director shall designate in writing, and EBY shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  9
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETa
By /s/ Jorge Dominguez
Authorized Representative
and
By /s/ Antonio Adam Nill
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
Schedule 1 to the Yacyreta Project Agreements.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and EBY in the carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower and EBY shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall 
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on 
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Timetable for the Carrying Out of the
Resettlement and Environmental Management Program (EMP)
                                                      Time Frame
Activity                                        Initiated   Completed
                        Resettlement and Rehabilitation
1.    Institutional Strengthening
(a)   Agreements signed with                                10/92
      local governmental agencies
      for development of actions
      and programs of social
      communication and socio-
      economic development
      (health, education, com-
      munity development,
      occupation retraining).
(b)   Training of local govern-                 02/93       09/94
      mental personnel to meet
      the specific requirements
      of the programs referred
      to in (a) above.
(c)   Agreements signed with                                12/92
      consultants for local
      governmental agencies for
      initial three year period.
Page  10
(d)   Presentation of first                                 12/92
      quarterly report on quality
      control.
(e)   Agreement signed with non-                            12/92
      governmental organization
      for independent evaluation.
2.    Infrastructure  Works
(a)   Completion of housing in progress:
            about 299 complete units                        12/92
            about 312 units lacking                         05/93
              only infrastructure
(b)   Completion of detailed design
      studies and projects:
            for housing                                     01/93
            for infrastructure                              06/93
(c)   Acquisition of rural lands for            11/92       01/95
      resettlement area; identifi-
      cation, valuation, expropria-
      tion for elevation 78.
(d)   Land acquisition for industries           12/92       03/93
      relocation, including studies to
      identify clay deposits,
      resettlement alternatives,
      occupational retraining alterna-
      tives and evaluation of clay
      recovery alternatives.
(e)   Contracting and construction of           04/93       06/95
      urban housing and infrastructure
      for elevation 78 m.
(f)   Contracting and construction of           05/93       06/95
      urban housing and infrastructure
      for elevation 78 m.
(g)   Contracting and construction of           01/93       08/93
      Encarnacion commercial zone
      (complete infrastructure
      in the commercial resettle-
      ment zone).
(h)   Reconstruction of shops by                06/93        06/95
      owners.
3.    Population Transfer
(a)   Relocation of urban population
      and issuing of property deeds:
            for elevation 76 m.                 11/92        06/94
            for elevation 78 m.                              06/95
(b)   Relocation of rural population
      and issuing of property deeds:
            for elevation 76 m.                 01/94        06/94
            for elevation 78 m.                              06/95
(c)   Relocation of industrial popula-
      tion (periurban):
            for elevation 76 m.                 10/93        06/94
            for elevation 78 m.                              06/95
(d)   Relocation of the commercial zone         10/93        06/95
      population and issuing of property
      deeds to serviced lots.
4.    Socioeconomic Development Programs
Page  11
(a)   Public health.                            10/92        09/98
(b)   Community development.                    12/92        09/98
(c)   Literacy campaign.                        03/93        09/98
(d)   Agriculture extension.                    06/93        09/98
                         Environmental Management Plan
5.    Water Quality
(a)   Sewage collection and treatment
      in Posadas and Encarnacion.
            Studies to develop final            10/92        10/93
            designs for sewerage net-
            work and sewage treatment
            plants for both cities.
            Construction of (i) primary         12/93        06/98
            sewage collectors and
            interceptors, (ii) secondary
            and tertiary sewerage net-
            works (including residential
            hookups), and (iii) sewage
            treatment plants and/or long
            discharge pipes.
(b)   Urban water supply systems.
            Studies to develop final design     10/92        10/93
            of a potable water system for
            Posadas, Garupa, Candelaria,
            and Encarnacion.
            Construction of the potable water   12/93        06/98
            systems (including residential
            hook-ups) in these cities.
(c)   Selective biomass removal. Study to
      prioritize and plan biomass removal:
            for elevation 76 m.                 01/91        06/94
            for elevation 78 m.                 01/95        08/95
(d)   Treatment of urban refuse dumps to
      be flooded.
            Study to evaluate alternatives      02/93        12/93
            (refuse removal, dump stabiliza-
            tion, etc.) should the reservoir
            level be raised to elevation 83 m.
            and initiate monitoring program.
            Implementation of dump treatment    03/94        07/95
            measures (as needed).
(e)   Formulation and implementation of         10/93        09/95
      regulations to control industrial
      water pollution, agreed with provin-
      cial and departmental governments
      having the power to enforce agree-
      ments in, and upriver of, Posadas
      and Encarnacion.
(f)   Reservoir water quality monitoring,       01/93        recurrent
      beginning with baseline study to
      be completed before filling to
      elevation 76 m.
(g)   Monitoring urban well-water quality,      01/93        recurrent
Page  12
      beginning with baseline study to be
      completed before reservoir filling
      to elevation 76 m.
6.    Wildlands and Biodiversity
(a)   Establishment of compensatory protected
      areas in Islas Apipe, Campo San Juan,
      Rincon Santa Maria, north Ibera,
      and Teyu-Cuare in Argentina; Cuenca
      Arroyo Yabebyry and west Isla Yacyreta
      in Paraguay.
            Studies to develop management       01/93        08/93
            plans, physical boundary demar-
            cation, necessary infrastructure
            and equipment for specific
            reserves, and (for Campo San
            Juan) land acquisition.
(b)   Wildlife rescue. Study to design rescue   09/93        12/95
      plan, followed by implementation
      (synchronized with the 3 planned stages
      of biomass clearing and reservoir
      filling).
(c)   Reservoir shoreline vegetation management.
            Study to (i) identify critical      01/93        07/93
            erosion-prone reservoir shore-
            line areas, and (ii) recommend
            appropriate site-specific
            erosion control measures.
            Preliminary implementation of       12/93        09/95
            erosion control measures, in-
            cluding (i) agreements
            with landowners to maintain
            protective buffer strips of
            natural vegetation along
            reservoir shoreline and (ii)
            (if needed) manual reforesta-
            tion or other erosion control
            activities.
            Monitoring and control of           10/98        recurrent
            natural reservoir-edge
            forest vegetation.
7.    Fish and Other Aquatic Life
(a)   Research and monitoring of fish           10/92        recurrent
      populations and migrations up-
      river and downriver of the
      Yacyreta dam.
(b)   Control of fishing on the Parana          10/92        recurrent
      River (for 3 km above and below
      the Yacyreta dam); agreements with
      relevant agencies of the Borrower
      and of Paraguay with police power
      to control illegal fishing.
(c)   Control of floating aquatic weeds.        09/95        recurrent
8.    Public Health
(a)   Monitoring and control of vector-         12/92        recurrent
      and water-borne diseases, including
      (i) vector (especially mosquito and
      snail) monitoring and control, and
      (ii) clinical disease monitoring
Page  13
      and treatment.
9.    Cultural Property
(a)   Archaeological survey and salvage.        12/92        07/95
(b)   Historical building review and            01/96        12/98
      salvage.
10.   Special Studies and Mitigation Works
(a)   Study to develop environmental para-      02/93        09/95
      meters for operating guidelines for
      water releases from the Yacyreta dam.
(b)   Water management in the Ana Cua
      branch of the Parana River.
            Study to evaluate alternatives      02/93        08/93
            for water management in the
            Ana Cua branch.
            Construction of mitigation          10/93        06/95
            works according to results
            of study.
(c)   Environmental impact study of the         01/93        12/93
      Arroyo Aguapey protection works
      (i.e. of the Yacyreta power plant
      with and without these works).
(d)   Construction of Arroyo Aguapey            09/94        09/95
      protection works, according to
      the results of the study referred
      to in (c) above.
(e)   Planning and construction of urban
      coastal treatment works, including:
      (i) shoreline edge configuration
      for Posadas, Encarnacion, Garupa
      and Carmen del Parana; (ii) shore-
      line protection against flooding
      and river wave action; (iii) treat-
      ment of urban streams; and (iv)
      recomposition of urban and rural
      routes.
            Detailed planning studies           04/93        10/95
            Legal and technical details                      09/95
              needed for civil works
              contracting complete
(f)   Environmental impact study of new         12/92        04/93
      power transmission lines for the
      Yacyreta power plant.
11.   Environmental Training
(a)   Environmental panel of experts.           11/92        09/98
(b)   Environmental training of local           02/93        09/95
      agency staff, including EBY and
      collaborating governmental agencies
      and non-governmental organiza-
      tions (short courses and field
      workshops).
12.   Evaluation of Resettlement and
      Rehabilitation and Environmental
      Management Plan Implementation
(a)   Consultants contracted.                                12/92
Page  14
(b)   Draft First Report.                                    03/93
(c)   Final First Report.                                    06/93
(d)   Draft Second Report.                                   03/94
(e)   Final Second Report.                                   06/94
(f)   Draft Third Report.                                    03/95
(g)   Final Third Report.                                    06/95
(h)   Draft Fourth Report.                                   03/96
(i)   Final Fourth Report.                                   06/96
(j)   Draft Fifth Report.                                    03/97
(k)   Final Fifth Report.                                    06/97
(l)   Draft Sixth Report.                                    03/98
(m)   Final Sixth Report.                                    06/98
