Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5351-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TEE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 90.7 MILLION
TO TH
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
November 2, 1990
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Annual Averages)
Sri Lanka Rupees per US$1.00
1978     -     Rs. 15.61
1979     -     Rs. 15.57
1980     -     Rs. 16.53
1981     -     Rs. 19.25
1982     -     Rs. 20.81
1983     -     Rs. 23.53
1984     -     Rs. 25.44
1985     -     Rs. 27.16
1986     -     Rs. 28.02
1987     -     Rs. 29.44
1988     -     Rs. 31.81
1989     -     Rs. 36.04
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS
ADB    - Asian Development Bank
CEA    -  Central Environmental Agency
CDS    -  Committee of Development Secretaries
CTB    -  Ceylon Transport Board
CY     -  Calendar Year
ERC    -  Economic Restructuring Credit
GOBU   -  Government Owned Business Undertaking
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
IDA    -  International Development Association
IFC    -  International Finance Corporation
IMF    -  International Monetary Fund
JSP    -  Jana Saviya Program
MOI    - Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology
MOT    - Ministry of Handlooms and Textiles Industries
NGOs   -  Non-Government Organizations
NTC    -  National Textiles Corporation
PFP    -  Policy Framework Paper
PIMB   -  Public Investment Management Board
PMEAC  -  Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit
PMEs   -  Public Manufacturing Enterprises
PPF    -  Project Preparation Facility
SAF    -  Structural Adjustment Facility
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
DEKOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Program Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .   i
Reform Strategy under the Proposed Credit   . . . . . . . . . .    1
I.  COUNTRY POLICIES AND ASSISTANCE STRATEGY  . . . . . . . . .   2
A. Background   . . . . . . .      .          . . . . . .   2
B. Recent Economic Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
C. The Policy Framework 1990-1993 . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
D. Sectoral Policies and Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
. IDA's Assistance to Sri Lanka  . . .      . . . . . . .   13
F. External Financing Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
G. Summary Assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
THE PUBLIC MA_NUFACTURING ENTERPRISES: ADJUSTMENT ISSUES   .  19
A.  Performance of Public Manufacturing Enterprises   . . .  19
B. PME Structural Issues   . . . .   . . . . 4 . . . . .  20
C.  Institutional Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
III. PAST PME REFORM ATTEMPTS AND DIALOGUE WITH THE BANK . . . .  23
A. Past Policy and Enterprise Reforms  . . . . . . . . . .  23
B. Redirection of PME Reform under the 1988-89 Policy
Framework   ...................  .  .  .                24
C.  Preparation of a Comprehensive PME Reform Program   .  25
IV. THE PROPOSED PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
D             A.  Regulatory, Incentives and Trade Reform   . . . . .  .  29
B.  Institutional Reforms   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
C.  Enterprise Reforms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
D.  Projected Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
E.  Credit Arrangements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
V.  RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
This document has a festricted dilstribution and may be used by recipients only in fth perotmance
of their offcial duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
ANNEX I  Table 1s Key Indicators, 1986-93 . . . . . . . . . . .  41
Table Z:  Balance of Payments   . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
ANNEX TI  Table 3: Status of Bank Group Operations in Sri Lanka   43
Table 4: External Financing Requirements, 1990-91 . . . 45
ANNEX III Table S: Value of Industrial Production, Value Added,
Exports and Employment by Sub-sectors and
Major PMEs, 1977-1988 . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
Table 6: Growth of Industrial Output: Sub-sectors and
Major PMEs, 1986-1988 . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
Table 7: Profile of Public Man-ifacturing Enterprises
Selected for Restructuring  . . . . . . . . .  48
Table 8: Public Sector Industries' Borrowings, 1989  .  49
ANNEX IV  Letter of Sectoral Development Policies  . . . . . . .  50
ANNEX V   Policy Matrix  ..................  .  .   57
ANNEX VI  Conditions of Second Tranche Disbursement  . . . . . .  62
Map   -   IBRD 20879



i.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LAN=A
PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES ADJUSTMNT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:         Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amounts           SDR 90.7 million (US$120 million equivalent)
Terms:            IDA Credit: Standard IDA Terms (40 years maturity)
Description:      The proposed operation would support a reform program to
commercialize, modernize and privatize public manufacturing
enterprises to promote efficiency and growth, particularly
of non-traditional exports. The third-year Policy Framework
Paper (PFP), discussed by the Committee of the Whole and the
IMF Board in October 1990, provides the macroeconomic
framework for adjustment lending to Sri Lanka. The
comprehensive program of stabilization and structural
reforms envisaged under the third-year PFP is supported by
an Economic Restructuring Credit (ERC) approved by IDA's
Board in May 1990 (Cr. 2128-CE) and by the proposed PMEAC.
Structural reforms supported by the ERC are complemented
under this Credit with measures aimed at promoting efficient
use of industrial resources and reducing direct Government
involvement in industry.
Estimated
Disbursements:    Of the proposed Credit of US$120 million equivalent,
US$115 million equivalent would finance the foreign exchange
cost of general imports and about US$5 million equivalent
would finance a technical assistance program. The portion
of the credit used to finance imports would be available for
disbursement in two tranches. The first tranche of
US$57.5 million equivalent would be available upon credit
effectiveness; the second tranche of US$57.5 million
equivalent, upon fulfillment of the second tranche release
conditions (Annex VI), which is expected before the end of
1991. The remaining US$5 million would be disbursed against
technical assistance services to assist the Ministry of
Industries and the Public Investment Management Board to
commercialize and privatize enterprises under the Ministry
of Industries.
Appraisal Reports Not applicatle
IBRD 20879



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT OF SDR 90.7 MILLION
(US$120 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Public
Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit (PMEAC) to the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for SDR 90.7 million (US$120 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms.
2.       The proposed operation would support a reform program to
commercialize, modernize and privatize public manufacturing enterprises (PMEs)
to promote efficiency and growth, particularly of non-traditional exports.
The third-year Policy Framework Paper (PFP), discussed by the IDA Committee of
the Whole and by the IMF Board in October 1990 provides the macroeconomic
framework for adjustment lending to Sri Lanka. The comprehensive program of
stabilization and structural reforms envisaged under the third-year rFP is
supported by an Economic Restructuring Credit (ERC) approved by IDA's Board in
May 1990 (Cr. 2128-CE). In addition to addressing the country's serious
internal and external imbalances, ERC focuses on (i) the public sector's size,
its claims on resources and the efficiency with which it uses such resources;
(ii) private sector development through improvements in the existing
regulatory framework and incentive system and transfer to the private sector
of activities and assets now being managed by the public sector, particularly
in transport and plantations; and (iii) improving the consumption levels of
the poorest segments of society. The proposed PMEAC is intended to complement
structural reforms supported by the ERC with measures aimed at promoting
efficient use of industrial resources and redurtng Government involvement in
industry. Financing provided by the proposed PMEAC as well as the ERC should
assist the Government in coping with the resource demands arising from the
adjustment process which have been significantly aggravated by the Gulf
crisis.
3.       Reform Strategy under the Proposed Adjustment Credit.  Since 1977,
when the Government adopted a bold economic liberalization program after a
long period of interventionist policies, it has increasingly focused on
promoting private investment. Successive phases of reforms, which have been
supported by six IDA-financed industrial credit operations, have liberalized
investment and trade, promoted private industries and exports, and developed
financial services and infrastructure support. These measures, which are
indicative of the GoverNment's willingness to reduce direct intervention in
the functioning of markets, have partially off-set the industrial incentive
system's earlier, inward-looking bias and resulted in new activities and
export earnings. But they did little to reduce the size of the public indus-
trial sector created during the years of Government intervention or to modify
the regulatory and incentive framework under which PMEs have been functioning.
This framework has enabled the Government to sustain PMEs whose operations
would not be viable in a market-oriented environment. It provided no
incentives for viable PMEs to improve their efficiency, particularly by
exporting, and resulted in a dual industrial structure. Private investment
tended to concentrate on export-oriented, labor intensive, high growth
activities, while PMEs are typically engaged in import substitution, capital



-2-
intensive, slow growth activities. However, a number of PMEs, particularly in
textiles, mining and minerals, have potential for higher growth, especially
through export development, which has not been realized under public
management. The proposed PMEAC is intended to develop this potential for
export-led growth by commercializing and privatizing all viable PME activities
under the Textiles and Industries Ministries through domestic and foreign
joint ventures and sales of shares and by progressively phasing out non-viable
activities.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
4.       This Chapter takes into account the third-year PFP (1990-1993)
approved by the Committee of the Whole on October 16, 1990, and the Country
Economic Memorandum  entitled: 'Sri Lanka:  Sustaining the Adjustment
Process', dated September 26, 1990 (Report No. 8951-CE).
A. Background
5.       Following nearly three decades of poor growth performance after
Independence in 1948, in 1977 Sri Lanka initiated a radical economic
liberalization program. The country's initially unsatisfactory growth
performance resulted from a development strategy which relied on inward-
looking industrialization and increasing Goverrment intervention in the
economy. These policies resulted in stagnation, unemployment rates as high as
24Z during the 1970s, recurrent balance of payments crises and foreign
exchange shortages. Poor economic performance was the main reason for a
dramatic reorientation in policies in 1977, when the trade regime was
liberalized and Government intervention in the functioning of markets
substantially reduced. The economy responded well, generating new sources of
economic activity and export earnings. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew 5-7Z
per year during 1978-85, and unemployment declined to 12? in the early 19808.
6.       Sir.ce the mid-1980s, however, slow growth, macro-economic imbalances
and high unemployment have re-emerged as serious problems (see Annex I).
There are three reasons for this deterioration of economic performance: (i)
the expansionary macro-economic policies pursued since 1977 led to
unsustainably large deficits in the external and internal accounts; (ii) while
the Government extensively liberalized trade, financial markets and prices, it
did not reduce the public sector's size or address the root causes for its
inefficiency; and (iii) the outbreak of the ethnic conflict in 1983, in the
North and East, compounded by the resurgence of terrorism in the South after
the Peace Accord was signed with India in July 1987, put heavy pressures on
the budget, caused losses in output, and reduced foreign investment and
tourism.
B. Recent Economic Developments
7.       Macro-economic problems after 1977 stemmed from several inter-related
factors: (i) the relatively large size of the public sector, which employs
over 20S of the country's labor force (i.e. 1.25 million people out of a labor



-3-
force of about 6 million); (ii) ambitious public investment programs,
partially financed by commercial borrowing; (iii) the country's access to
international capital markets after 1977 and its borrowing on commercial terms
until 1984; and (iv) the Government's reluctance to adjust the exchange rate
adequately which had negative effects on export growth and balance of payments
performance. These factors led to large internal and external deficits in the
late 1970s and 1980s and a build-up in external debt.
8.       Despite the 1977 liberalization, the Government's role in the economy
increased. The availability of external finance both from donors and
commercial sources led the Government to expand its investment program.
Current expenditures increased both as a result of increased public sector
employment and of public enterprises' need for budgetary support after they
were exposed to market forces and international competition without being
given autonomy to make decisions on pricing, procurement and recruitment. As
total Government expenditures soared, so did fiscal deficits despite Sri
Lanka's relatively high revenue to GDP ratio, which gradually increased from a
historical 16-17? of GDP to slightly over 202 of GDP in the mid-1980s. The
fiscal deficit during 1978-87 averaged 14X of GDP, about half of which was
financed by grants and concessional loans and the other half by domestic
borrowing. At close to one-half of national savings, this level of domestic
borrowing has been the main cause for relatively high real interest rates.
Commercial lending rates averaged 82 per year in real terms during the last
four years.
9.       The Government-led expansion in aggregate demand was the principal
factor underlying the acceleration in inflation in the first half of the
1980's. Because of an insufficiently flexible exchange rate, inflation led to
a gradual appreciation of the real exchange rate. This appreciation impeded a
more vigorous development and diversification of the export sector and
contributed to a current account deficit which averaged 16? of GDP in 1980-82,
with a gradual decline to around 102 of GDP thereafter. As part of this
deficit was financed through commercial borrowing until 1984, debt service
ratios increased from 14? of exports of goods and services in 1978 to 29Z in
1988. Commercial debt reached one-third of the country's medium and long-term
debt by the mid-1980s, although by the end of 1988 it had declined to 20?,
i.e. US$850 million out of US$4.5 billion. Thus, the good growth performance
after liberalization can be explained by a one-time efficiency gain following
elimination of many of the market distortions prevailing before 1977,
complemented by an expansionary fiscal policy.  However, this growth
performance could not be sustained largely because of the concentration and
inefficient use of a significant share of the country's economic resources in
the public sector, particularly in PMEs as discussed in the following
Chapters.
10.      The Economic Impact of Civil Disturbances.  Since the early 1980s,
civil disturbances intruded as a major impediment to Sri Lanka's economic
development. They began as an ethnic conflict in the Northern and Eastern
districts in 1983 and escalated gradually until the conflict reached major
proportions in early 1987. The ethnic conflict subsided for a few months
following the India-Sri Lanka Peace Accord of July 1987. By 1988, however, it
had again reached serious proportions, and the Reconstruction Program for the



-4-
Northern and Eastern provinces, for which IDA held a Special Aid Group Meeting
in December 1987 and mobilized substantial support (US$500 million), could not
be implemented at the pace envisaged originally. At the same time,
nationalistic groups opposed to the terms of the 1987 Peace Accord mounted a
well articulated anti-Government campaign, which escalated to the point of
virtually paralyzing the country in mid-1989.
11.      Consequently, defense expenditures rose from about 1Z of GDP in the
first half of the 19809 to 4-5Z of GDP in 1987-89. Civil disturbances have
not only put heavy pressures on the budget but also have been an important
reason for the decline in the GDP growth rate to about 2-2.5Z in the last
three years. Paddy production in the Northern and Eastern provinces declined
by about one-third, fishing by half, and tourism inflows to the island were
reduced by two-thirds. The economy's ability to weather a high level of
disturbances and responsiveness to improved incentives have been remarkable,
however. Tea production in 1988, for example, was at its highest level since
1965; private sector manufacturing continued to grow at over 10? through the
1988 and 1989 turbulence; and non-traditional exports continued to expand
rapidly.
12.      The Government should have addressed more forcefully the economic
problems which emerged in the iid-1980s, but a number of factors enabled it to
postpone tough policy decisions. First, the Government was able to tap
concessional as well as commercial sources of financing to offset budgetary
deficits, which averaged 142 of GDP between 1978-87. Second, the boom in tea
prices and the inflow of workers' remittances eased the pressure on the
Government. By 1986, however, it was clear that Sri Lanka could no longer
sustain its high levels of fiscal and external current account deficits in the
face of dwindling reserves. In November 1986 the Government articulated a
three-year stabilization program which, in turn, led to the first-year PFP
(1988-1990). The program's main objectives were to restore growth, reduce the
fiscal deficit to an acceptable level by 1990, and stimulate export-led
manufacturing output through trade reform and exchange rate depreciation.
While adoption of this first-year PFP was seen as a major breakthrough at that
time, its implementation turned out to be a disappointment. The sudden
escalation of civil violence in the South disrupted economic activity, while
relaxed public sector wage and credit policies in the pre-election period
aggravated demand pressures.
13.      The new Government formed in early 1989 found itself on the verge of
a balance of payments crisis, accelerating inflation, and a large and widening
fiscal deficit.  With IDA and the IMF support it formulated a new 1-lt-92
program, reflected in the second-year PFP reviewed by the IDA Committee of the
Whole and approved by the Fund Board in October 1989. The second-year PFP
program focussed on the need to restore economic stability in the short-term,
and to resume the structural adjustment effort initiated under the first-year
PFP. The new program aimed to increase growth to 3-4Z by 1990-92, reduce
inflation to 72 by 1992, reduce the fiscal deficit to 82 of GDP by 1992, and
curb the external current account deficit to 62 of GDP by 1992. While these
objectives may appear modest, they represented a major improvement over the
country's recent macro-economic performance. On the structural reform front,
the second-year PFP revived the agenda contained in the first-year PFP which



-5-
was to reduce the size of the public sector and to increase the efficiency and
role of the private sector, including commercialization and selective
privatization of public enterprises. The second-year PFP also renewed the
emphasis on poverty alleviation and the restructuring and possible
privatization of the state-owned tea and rubber estates and the public bus
company. During the past few months, many of the reforms identified under the
second-year PFP have been translated into specific action programs under the
ERC (approved by the IDA Board in May 1990). Their macroeconomic impact is
described below.
14.      Since the introduction of the second-year PFP program in mid-1989,
overall economic management and performance has strengthened. The improvement
in the security situation during the first half of 1990, especially in the
South, coupled with sound macro-economic policies and good weather,
contributed to an increase in the growth rate from 2.3% in 1989 to an
estimated 4.8? in 1990. Given the existing relatively high revenue effort at
20? of GDP, the Government has emphasized reduction in expenditures in its
effort to reduce the fiscal gap. This was also consistent with the
Government's objective gradually to reduce the level of total public
expenditure relative to GDP. For example, it has curtailed the Jana Saviya
Program (JSP), a poorly-targeted and potentially expensive national poverty
program, eliminated subsidies on wheat, rice, and fertilizers, and implemented
substantial across-the-board reductions in non-wage, non-interest
expenditures. Such policy actions and tightened expenditure controls kept the
overall deficit in 1989 at 11? of GDP, well within the PFP target of 12.5? of
GDP. To complement these measures, the Government also devalued the rupee,
from Rs 35/US$ in July 1989 to Rs 40/US$ in September 1989, and tightened
monetary and credit policies. Although foreign aid inflows were slightly
lower than anticipated, the 1989 domestic financing of the budget at 5.1? of
GDP was still lower than the PFP target of 6.3Z; this was also significantly
less than the 1988 domestic financing which reached 9.4? of GDP.
15.      In part reflecting these stabilization and credit policies, the
exterr±al sector also showed improvement. The current account deficit of the
balance of payments improved noticeably to about 8? of GDP, substantially
below the PFP target set in mid-1989 and gross official reserves increased
from the equivalent of 3 weeks of imports in August 1989 to 1.7 months by
April 1990. The stabilization program, however, was not as successful in
controlling inflation. Inflation accelerated in late 1989 despite the
tightening of monetary policy, partially as a result of the rupee devaluation
and elimination of subsidies. The Government further attempted to curb
inflation, by tightening overall credit growth, but inflation persisted at
above 20Z in mid-1990. This appears to have resulted from several factors
including some monetary relaxation and higher-than-expected net foreign assets
position during the early part of 1990; adjustments in administered prices
after the devaluation; increased consumer demand and spending with the
abatement of civil conflict in the South; and the general formation of
inflationary expectations.  If the Government maintains its commitment to
exercising fiscal and monetary restraint, inflation is expected to subside to
more manageable levels. However, in view of the strong build-up of
inflationary pressures and the rise in inflationary expectations, it will take
a period of sustained macro-economic restraint to lower inflation to the PFP



-6-
target of IS. The high rate of domestic inflation in 1990 has also resulted
in an appreciation of the real effective exchange rate. The Government has
recently introduced a market related system for exchange rate 3letermination,
in which the daily rate is deterrnined based on the average of the previous
day's interbank rates. This should help maintain Sri Lanka's export
competitiveness and strengthen the external account.
16.      Prior to the Gulf crisis, GDP growth was projected to exceed 52 a
year in the mediam-term. Gross official reserves were to increase from US$290
million (1.5 months of imports) at the beginning of 1990 to US$460 million (2
months of imports) by the end of 1991 in line with a projected decline in the
current account deficit. The Gulf crisis has seriously jeopardized these
prospects. The potential impact of the crisis on Sri Lanka's balance of
payments includes a much higher oil import bill, reduced tea export earnings
to Kuwait/Iraq, sharply reduced private remittances, and if the crisis
persists lower overall exports due to reduced growth in industrialized
countries.  The most critical factor is the price of oil and if current prices
of close to US$30 per barrel continue into 1991, net payments for oil imports
are estimated to increase by nearly US$40 million in 1990 and up to
US$110 million in 1991.  Approximately 12-15 percent of Sri Lanka's tea
exports, originally projected to be about US$450 in 1990, go to Kuwait/Iraq.
While some of this tea might find outlets in other countries, there may well
be some softening in prices. Lost tea earnings may reach US$15 million in
1990 and perhaps US$50-70 million in 1991. Approximately 20-25 percent of Sri
Lanka's workers remittances of about US$360 million originated in Kuwait/Iraq.
While some may find job opportunities elsewhere, the prospects are not
encouraging. Lost remittances may total US$20 million in 1990, rising to
perhaps US$45 million in 1991. In sum, the crisis' overall negative impact on
Sri Lanka's balance of payments may be as high as US$75 million in 1990 rising
to US$150-US$200 million or more in 1991.
17.      Possibilities for additional support for Sri Lanka under these
circumstances encompass: making use of on-going projects to finance the costs
of resettling returning Gulf workers and their families including potential
needs for housing,-credit and training; and accelerating and/or increasing the
size of on-going or prospective operations to provide balance of payments
support. The proposed PMEAC provides a convenient and timely vehicle for
meeting Sri Lanka's immediate financing needs which have been exacerbated by
the Gulf crisis. Other donors including the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and
Japan are also increasing their program aid in response to the crisis.
Particular resettlement needs will be addressed under the poverty alleviation
and employment project planned later this fiscal year and the small and medium
scale industries project planned early next fiscal year. On its part, the
Government has already taken various measures such as raising the domestic
price of petroleum products, increasing bus and railway fares and curbing fuel
consumption by the public sector.
C. The Policy Framework 1991-1993
18.      The Government is currently faced with the daunting task of restoring
peace in the North and the East, maintaining the stability of the economy,
restoring growth and sustaining the reform process. At the top of the agenda



-7-
remains the need to maintain economic stability while moving forward on
structural reforms. The Government considers that too rapid an adjustment in
some areas could aggravate political instability. The Government thus
believes that the structural reform program should proceed at a pace
consistent with the cotmtry's political situation. In addition to the
immediate task of maintaining economic stability, restoring growth, and
resuming the structural reform process, the Government is ready to address the
underlying development issues which have aggravated the political tensions in
the country. In particular, it intends to reduce the high unemployment level
and, at the same time, ensure that there is an improvement in the poverty
situation.
19.      The recent resurgence of violence by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam in the Klorth and the East and the uncertain Middle East situation
further complicate the Government's task. Sri Lanka must take steps towards
implementing its structural changes within the context of a difficult and, in
some respects, changing economic setting:
o   Recovery in growth and investment will have to be achieved
aga'.nst the backdrop of a more constrained resource situation, an uncertain
outlook for tree crops prices and export markets, increased energy prices, and
a continuing need to finance defense expenditures.
O   New sources of growth will need to be developed during this
decade, possibly in export-led manufacturing, food production (other than
rice), fisheries, a revived tourism sector, and a restructured tree crops sub-
sector.
O   At the central level, the Government's role is expected to
diminish as the private sector plays a much greater role in the creation of
new productive capacity.
O   And finally, greater emphasis will have to be given to
sustainable development, including such issues as maintenance of physical
a-sets, growing concerns about unemployment, poverty and malnutrition, and
environmental degradation.
20.      Recognizing the importance of furthering the gains achieved thus far
in the stabilization e'fforts, the Government has reached agreement with the
Bank and the IDF on a third-year PFP.  The main macro-economic objectives over
the medium-term are to: (i) accelerate growth to over 5% through 1993; (ii)
reduce inflation to 62 by 1993; and (iii) reduce the external current account
deficit from about 8Z of GDP in 1989 to about 5Z by 1993, accompanied by an
increase in gross official reserves from the current level of about 1.7 months
of imports to 1.9 months. Fiscal constraint is expected to result in the
budget deficit declining from about 10X GDP in 1990 to about 92 in 1991 with
further reduction thereafter. The attainment of these objectives will
essentially require a gradual diminution of the civil conflict; a stable
macro-economic environment including tight fiscal and monetary policies
coupled with appropriate exchange rate management; the establishment of a
consistent enabling environment for the private sector which will promote an
increase in private investment and export oriented output; a reduction in the



-8-
size of the public sector and its claims on resources so as to make room for
the private sector.
21.      Reducing the Public Sector.  The Government's strategy to reduce the
size of the public sector comprises measures to reduce the level of central
Government expenditures and a program to restructure and commercialize and/or
privatize public sector enterprises. Central Government expenditures have in
recent years accounted for about 33-34Z of GDP. In addition to transfers
required to support inefficient public enterprises, public expenditures have
suffered from (i) the high cost of civil administration; (ii) large transfers
and subsidies; and (iii) public investments with low rates of return. To
reduce the cost of civil administration, the Government is implementing the
findings of its Administrative Reforms Committee which recommended a reduction
in the number of ministries, and retrenchment of 80,000 staff over a three
year period. Some 20,000 are being retrenched during 1990 and are receiving
compensatory packages. The large volume of income transfers and subsidies
include the increasing but mistargeted transfers to households. The largest
of these is the Food Stamps Program which the Government now intends to re-
target so that, instead of half of the country's population benefitting (8
million in 1988), at the cost of 1.32 of GDP, the program will be confined to
about 1 million households (or 4-5 million), who really need this assistance.
Another key program is the President's JSP which was originally designed to
provide income transfers to all households eligible under the Food Stamps
Program. Recognizing the adverse fiscal implications of the JSP and its
limited poverty alleviation effects, the Government has scaled it back
significantly and is preparing, with IDA support, a poverty alleviation and
employment project aimed at generating self-employment and incomes by giving
the poor access to resources based on credit coupled with skills training;
such a project is expected to replace the original JSP. Subsidies, originally
equivalent to about 22 of GDP, mainly for fertilizer, wheat, rice, and bus
transport have recently been largely eliminated. In the context of its
current public investment program review, the Government is assessing the
relative rates of return of planned public investment projects to give higher
priority to those projects with the most attractive returns and drop or
curtail those of lower priority. It plans to identify a core program not
exceeding 702 of planned investments to protect them against unforeseen
revenue shortfalls.
22.      The Government is already taking steps to privatize and restructure
public enterprises. It has divested an auto dealership and is in the process
of divesting two public companies (liquid oxygen and ceramics). The
Government also decided to privatize the Central Transport Board (CTB) which
had suffered losses between Rs 400-800 million annually because of Government
fare regulations and operational inefficiencies. Another major sub-sector,
tree crops, is dominated by two large public corporations which have
experienced a long history of managerial and financial problems. The
Government recently appointed a high-level task force to formulate an action
plan by the end of 1990 for restructuring the two public corporations, with
the possibility of increasing the role of the private sector to improve their
viability. The Government has also begun a phased implementation to
commercialize, restructure or privatize much of its large PME portfolio. It
has divested two large textile mills and has prepared a program for further



-9-
divestiture in textiles as well as other manufactures which would be supported
by the proposed PMEAC.
23.      Expandina the Private Sector.  The Government intends to give private
sector the primary responsibility for generating future growth. In the past
large public expenditures have crowded out private investment which, at 10-Ilt
of GDP, is still insufficient to play a pivotal role in reviving economic
growth. The continuing uncertainties brought about by the security situation
also create an uncertain environment for private investors--both domestic and
foreign. Nevertheless, the fact that private investment has been maintained
at 10-11i of GDP despite the civil disturbances of recent years indicates the
potential for sound growth when full stability returns.
24.      In order to stimulate private sector development, the Government is
taking a number of steps to improve the business environment. Recognizing
that the growth potential of the private manufacturing sector has been limited
in the past by the high level of protection accorded manufacturers and by
cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, the Government has recently made
considerable progress in reducing bureaucratic requirements as well as in
reducing the level, as well as the dispersion, of effective rates of
protection on manufactured products. Except for sugar, the maximum nominal
tariff on such products has been reduced to 602 and all import licensing
restrictions (other than those required on security or health grounds) have
been eliminated. In accordance with the third-year PFP, the Government plans
to reduce the maximum nominal tariff on manufacturing products to 5O0, and
introduce a simplified four-band system. The Government has indicated that it
intends to pursue a flexible exchange rate policy to ensure that Sri Lanka's
exports remain competitive, to diversify further the export base and to
maintain an adequate level of foreign exchange reserves. The recently
introduced market related system for exchange rate determination should help
achieve these objectives.
25.      The Government also has recently taken a number of other actions
designed to improve private investors confidence. It has: disbanded the Local
Investment Advisory Committee which previously approved all new domestic
investments; lifted restrictions on foreign equity participation and
eliminated the 1002 tax on transfers of Sri Lanka shareholders' equity shares
to foreigners; started a reform of the quota allocation system to garment
exporters; and established a high-level committee that will monitor
periodically and publicize to the Government a list of private sector
grievances and recommended actions. Because of the importance of the
financial system in mobilizing resources for private sector investment
activity, the Government, with IDA and ADB's assistance, is formulating
measures for strengthening the two largest state-owned commercial banks,
including privatization, while increasing the overall efficiency of the
financial sector.
26.      The Poverty Dimension.  Sri Lanka is exceptional among low-income
countries in having achieved an impressive social and human resources
development record which compared favorably with many developed countries in
the mid-1970s. During the first half of the 1980s, food consumption appears
to have increased significantly for the very poor helped by solid progress in



-10-
food grain output as Sri Lanka achieved near self-sufficiency in rice
production. However, in the recent past, food prices have risen faster than
wages. Although the health system has made steady progress, no extensive
nutrition initiatives have become operational; child malnutrition, in
particular, continues to be a serious problem awaiting targeted nutritional
interventions for pre-school children and pregnant and lactating mothers.
Recent macro-economic deterioration and civil strife have surely caused some
worsening in the poverty and nutrition levels among certain groups, although
evidence of this development is still not well-documented. High unemployment
has exacerbated the poverty problem. The characteristics of unemployment
(currently about 16Z) and its relationship to poverty appear to be somewhat
different in Sri Lanka from some other countries in that the majority of the
unemployed are concentrated among relatively well educated middle class youth
(the unemployment rate reaches 301 for the 15-24 age group) who are first time
entrants of the job market and will wait long periods to secure a job of their
choice--frequently in the public sector. Another important facet of the
problem is that many of the unemployed comprise well educated women. A higher
rate of economic growth will benefit the poor through increased income and
employment generation. The Goovernment also continues to place emphasis in its
public investment program on education, nutrition and health programs with the
assistance of IDA and other donors. However the Government's structural
adjustment program will, at least initially, have some adverse impact on lower
income as well as middle and higher groups as a result of the reduction in
subsidies and retrenchment in the public sector. To mitigate the negative
effects on the poverty groups, the Government is transferring between 3.0-3.5X
of GDP to the poorest 202 of the population through such programs as the Food
Stamps Program, JSP and the Mid-Day Meals Program.
D. Sectoral Policies and Programs
27.      The Government recognizes that stable macro-economic policies are
pre-requisites for achieving structural reform and a sustained rate of
economic growth. An improved policy environment for the private sector,
combined with a reduction in public sector claims on resources, should
significantly assist in stimulating higher rates of investment and output in
the main productive sectors, agriculture and industry, which together account
for nearly 502 of GDP. Policies to stimulate private sector investment in
agriculture and industry will, however, need to be supported by rehabilitation
of the country's economic infrastructure, particularly transport, which has
suffered from the civil conflict. Because of the highly constrained resource
situation, investments with high rates of return should be given priority; at
the same time, resources devoted to rehabilitation, operation and maintenance
will help raise the productivity of existing investment. An important feature
of the Government's strategy in the public sector is to shift selected revenue
generating operations away from Central Government through a gradual process
of transforming Government departments (e.g. rail, telecommunications) into
autonomous corporations, which are then commercialized and eventually,
partially or wholly, divested to the private sector.
28.      Agriculture contributes nearly 251 of GDP and provides direct
employment to nearly half of Sri Lanka's active labor force and about one
third of the country's exports. Following the 1977 liberalization of



-11-
agricultural pricing and marketing, sector growth rose to nearly 42 during the
period 1978-82 principally due to rapid increases in rice production which
brought the country to near self-sufficiency. In the last few years, however,
growth has declined to about 2? per annum due to adverse weather, civil
disruptions, and stagnation in the state-owned plantations sector. In the
past the Government placed heavy emphasis on development of the large scale
Mahaweli irrigation scheme, designed mainly to support rice production, but
also to provide resettlement opportunities for the landless. This capital
intensive scheme has absorbed considerable financial resources and, taking
into account the currently projected low rates of return for such large scale
irrigation investments, the Government plans to give higher priority to
rehabilitation of existing small scale irrigation schemes which will provide
higher returns and help support the Government's agricultural diversification
strategy. This strategy will be further supported by improvements in the
research and extension services to provide the necessary advice and assistance
to farmers in developing their cropping patterns. The output of Sri Lanka's
tree crop sector has stagnated in recent years. The sector is dominated by
two large public corporations which account for about 13? of the country's
exports and employ about 500,000 people. The corporations have suffered from
an history of managerial and financial problems which have led to near
insolvency of both corporations, The Government is now conducting a study of
the sector, which is due for completion by the end of 1990, with a view to
restructuru and possibly privatize the public corporations. This program is
expected to improve the productivity, export earnings and financial viability
of the sector. The Government is also promoting improved forestry resource
management to curtail the dependency on wood product imports and ensure
adequate supplies of fuelvood while safeguarding the forest environment.
29.      Industry.  At less than 202 of GDP, industry is still a relatively
small sector within the economy. It is, however, a fast growing segment,
exceeding 62 per annum during the period of 1980-87, although output has
slowed in the last two to three years primarily due to the civil disturbances.
Growth areas have included garments, ceramics, leather and the processing of
gems. Most of the growth originates in the private sector while the public
manufacturing sector's output has been almost stagnant. The Government
recently adopted a new "Strategy for Industrialization in Sri Lanka' designed
to promote an export-oriented open economy based on a more competitive and
deregulated environment. The strategy includes savings mobilization,
encouragement to foreign investments, neutrality between privately and
publicly owned enterprises and removal of barriers to investment. As
discussed in para 22-24 above, the Government has already taken a number of
significant actions in the area of tariff reform and investment liberalization
to provide a more conducive environment for private investment. The
rationalization and privatization program being supported by the proposed
PMEAC should provide an improved environment for expansion of output in both
the public and private manufacturing sectors. Also, as noted in para 25, the
Government appreciates that a stronger financial sector is necessary to
underpin expanded private sector investment and is formulating reform programs
in consultation with the IDA and ADB. An active exchange rate policy designed
to promote export oriented growth will also be critical to the success of the
Government's industrialization strategy.



-12-
30.      Infrastructure.  The Government's plans for the country's transport
system emphasize roads rehabilitation and reorganization of the railways.
Largely due to neglect in maintenance and institutional inefficiencies,
transport costs by road and rail are excessively high. Government policies
are therefore aimed at reducing transport costs and raising the productivity
of investment in the sector through rehabilitation, improved maintenance and,
in the case of bus transport, the privatization of CTB. The Government has
increased bus and rail fares in response to the recent increase in oil prices.
It intends to deregulate bus fares completely upon privatization of CTB.
Structural measures involving a restructuring of the management and
organization of the Sri Lankan Railways (which currently operates as
Government department) will be required in order for the system to operate on
a more commercial and financially viable basis. The Government is also in the
process of upgrading the country's telecommunications system through continued
introduction of modern technology and has recently transformed the Government
Telecommunications Department into a public corporation to operate on a
commercial basis. In the power sector the Government's primary objective is
to improve the efficiency of the system through measures to reduce losses,
upgrade the transmission and distribution system and rationalize the
institutional arrangements for electricity supply. One impediment to the
efficient operation of the system has been the past proliferation in the
number of distribution entities and the Government is implementing a program
to gradually reduce their number and improve their operating efficiency. To
improve the finances of the electricity generation and supply agencies and
help promote energy conservation, the Government is committed to adjusting
electricity tariffs to achieve adequate rate of return on capital invested.
To meet this objective, power tariffs were raised in April 1990 by 402.
Primary reliance on hydroelectric generation should mitigate the need for
further tariff adjustments following the recent rise in oil prices.
31.      Social Sectors.  Sri Lanka has well developed educational and health
systems and has education and health indicators that rival or exceed those in
many countries with a higher income. For example, adult literacy and primary
school enrollment rates both approach 90Z while life expectancy is 69 years
and infant mortality is 32 per thousand. The decline in resources allocated
to the education sector during the first half of the 1980's led to some
decline in the quality of teaching staff and inadequate maintenance. The
problem was compounded by weak in-services training of teachers, low salaries
and poor management of the system. However during the last two years, the
Government has increased budgetary allocations to education emphasizing
rehabilitation and maintenance rather than new work, launched a new teacher
training program and improved salaries, and re-organized the school system
with more decentralized management. In order to address the long-standing
problem of mismatch between the output of the educational system and manpower
needs of the economy, the Government has initiated a study to identify the
skill gaps in the economy and to assess the need to restructure the education
and training systems. In health the problem has been less one of inadequacy
of financial resources than of weak management and organization, leading to
breakdowns in staffing, logistics, maintenance and supplies. At the same time
there has been a lack of specific health objectives and strategies as a basis
for formulating and financing well articulated sector investment plans. This
has resulted in poor planning, recruitment difficulties, slowed delivery



-13-
service patterns, uneven access to the primary health care system and weak
financial controls. There is also considerable unmet demand for family
planning services and scope for generating more demand for spacing methods.
The Government has already began to address several of these issues, with
support under an IDA financed project and is now carrying out a health
strategy and financing study, introducing improved services delivery in two
regions to test replicability nation-wide and is improving its management
system for medical supply distribution. At the same time family planning
delivery services are being strengthened with help from the United Nations
Fund for Population Activities. In spite of the extensive health services
network and the food stamp program, there remains a serious nutritional
deficiency problem, mainly among infants particularly in the rural areas and
in the estates. In addition to the infant food program, the Government has
initiated a pilot nutrition program aimed at pre-school children and pregnant
and lactating mothers, which it plans to expand with IDA support to the entire
nation.
32.      Environment.  Sri Lanka has a well-established legislative base of
environmental laws and a reasonable institutional framework with which to
address key conservation and environmental protection issues. The Central
Environmental Authority (CEA), under the newly-established Ministry of
Environment, serves as the linkage for cross-sectoral environmental issues and
enjoys the support of a number of donors including Norwegian Agency for
Development and United States Agency for International Development. The CEA
has been charged with the responsibility for developing Sri Lanka's approach
towards environmental protection, conducting research, formulating
environmental standards and protection criteria, and for recommending natural
resource conservation policies in all areas. Environmental non-Government
organizations (NGOs) are growing and have become increasingly important since
1987. A number of primary environmental issues have been identified,
including soil erosion, coastal zone degradation, industrial pollution and the
central issue of deforestation and the attendant loss of biological diversity.
With the assistance of IDA and other donor agencies, the Government is
addressing these issues through the re-formulation of its environmental
strategy and identification of priority actions it must take--in cooperation
with NGOs, the academic community, and public and private entervrises.
E. IDA's Assistance to Sri Lanka
33.      Bank Group Operations.  Prior to the advent of the new Government in
1989, Bank Group assistance to Sri Lanka fluctuated largely depending on the
rate of progress in the policy dialogue with the country. While the Bank has
always maintained a fairly strong presence in Sri Lanka, our support was
particularly significant during the major liberalization period after 1977
when the Bank's assistance increased sharply. In the mid-1980's when the
country was facing ethnic problems, the inability of the Government to pursue
a vigorous economic reform program constrained the Bank's country assistance
strategy in terms of lending support and in particular adjustment lending.
34.      As of June 30, 1990 the Bank Group had approved 12 loans totalling
US$131.1 million (net of cancellations) and 53 credits totalling US$1,210.1
million (net of cancellations) since the beginning of its operations in Sri



-14-
Lanka in 1954 (see Annex II, Table 3A). About 40? of World Bank assistance
has been for agriculture (irrigation, :ree crops, and rural and dairy
development), 152 for power, 152 for industry including telecommunications and
development finance company operations, 10? for transportation and the
remaining 20? among education, urban, water supply and a program credit.
35.      The IFC has made a total investment in Sri Lanka of US$4.2 million
equivalent in equity and US$35.8 million equivalent in loans (gross
commitments) (see Annex II, Table 3B). Investments have been made so far in
two textile industries, one polypropylene bag industry, one equipment-leasing
company, one hotel, one private insurance company, and two IFC lines of
credit, one of which has been extended to the Government-owned Bank of Ceylon
for term loans to medium-sized industries.
36.      Project Implementation.  Sri Lanka has traditionally maintained a
good record on project implementation. However because of the civil conflict
and unsettled conditions in certain areas, implementation of a number of
projects has slowed down. At the same time, with increasing budget
constraints, some projects have also suffered from inadequate counterpart
funding. These developments have been accompanied by a decline in the project
disbursement ratio from about 21? in FY86 to about 12X in FY90. An
improvement in project implementation can be expected as progress is made in
resolving the civil conflict. The Government is also reviewing its investment
program to identify a core of high priority projects which would be protected
against budgetary funding shortfalls. Implementation of IDA projects should
benefit from these efforts. Project implementation should also benefit from a
recent decision by IDA to increase its share of financing of project costs
(net of duties and taxes) from an average of about 70? in the past to 90? in
the future. This increase is based on Sri Lanka's relatively low per capita
income, its severe foreign exchange constraints and its satisfactory domestic
revenue mobilization effort.
37.      IDA's Country Assistance Strategy.  IDA's country assistance strategy
supports the main elements of the Government's third-year policy framework.
This would encompasst (i) economic stabilization, emphasizing measures which
address both internal and external balances, together with action to stimulate
a high rate of sustained economic growth; (ii) addressing medium-term
structural issues, mainly by reducing the size of the public sector while
improving its efficiency and strengthening the role of private sector; and
(iii) mitigating the impact of adjustment on the poor, while laying the basis
for more sustained poverty alleviation efforts. The implementation of this
strategy is aided by the close and collaborative working relationship that has
developed over the past few years between the Government, IMF and IDA
beginning in late 1986 when the Government requested assistance to develop
approaches toward a policy framework which would help avert emerging economic
difficulties. Progress towards meeting the objectives set out in the third-
year PFP, many of which are being supported by IDA's ERC and proposed PMEAC,
would constitute an important part of the performance criteria for Sri Lanka.
38.      Country Economic and Sector Work.  Future adjustment and investment
operations will be supported by economic and sector analysis focusing on:



-15-
o Macroeconomic stabilization and adjustment. Sri Lanka's evolving
macro policy and performance will be assessed, particularly with regard to the
country's success in curtailing external and fiscal deficits and ability to
implement structural reforms;
o Agricultural growth and diversification strategy. The analysis
will focus on policy and institutional reforms designed to restore
agricultural output, particularly in the stagnant plantations sector, and to
stimulate development of alternative crops (moving away from the current
predominance of rice) with high export potential;
o Industrial and financial sector reform. Assistance will be
provided to the Government in implementing the announced industrialization
strategy, in particular to address the issue of absorbing more youth who are
educated but unemployed, and in strengthening the financial sector through
privatization; and
o Human resource base and poverty. Special emphasis will be placed
on education, health and nutrition sector analysis, as well as on gaining a
better understanding uf the roots of poverty and their link to unemployment.
39.      IDA would support the Government's adjustment program outlined in the
third-year PFP by means of a number of quick-disbursing, policy-based
operations. The approved ERC has been supporting: pricing and expenditure
measures designed to restore macro-economic stability; retrenchment of the
civil service and public expenditure rationalization; trade and tariff reform
to promote private sector development, and restructuring of Government welfare
programs to target them to the most needy. The proposed PMEAC is supporting a
major program designed to commercialize and privatize PMEs to improve their
efficiency. Through such quick-disbursing operations, IDA will be able to
ensure implementation of critical policy reforms as well as provide foreign
exchange resources to help reconstitute the country's depleted reserves. In
addition to adjustment operations, IDA would continue to support sectoral
policy and institutional reform through investment operations.
40.      IDA's planned investment operations will focus on support for the
productive sectors (agriculture and industry) with the objective of
stimulating higher rates of growth, employment and incomes. At the same time
IDA's operations in these sectors would be designed to provide an improved
policy and institutional framework to encourage private sector export-oriented
production. More specifically, in agriculture there will be a shift from
IDA's past strategy which emphasized support for major irrigation schemes
(e.g. Hahaweli) for increased rice production. Instead, higher priority will
be given to rehabilitating and improving existing irrigation schemes
(particularly small scale tanks) to help in the diversification of food crops.
Proposed lending also includes support to the extension services to assist
farmers in their diversification efforts. At the same time, a program of
measures will be discussed with the Government to improve the efficiency,
productivity and financial viability of the tree crops subsector, which
remains a major source of foreign exchange, and formulate the
commercialization and possible privatization of the public sector plantations.
IDA is already active in the forestry subsector and plans a follow up project



-16-
to continue assisting the Government's efforts to ensure environmentally sound
development of this renewable resource. In industry, IDA has a two-pronged
strategy consisting, firstly, in assisting the Government's efforts to
restructure the PMEs either through commercialization and/or outright
privatization in selected cases; and secondly, in continuing its active
program of lending for small and medium scale industrial development through
financial intermediaries. Such operations to date have proved relatively
successful in promoting private manufacturing output, initiating trade and
tariff policy reform in the sector and reforming the financial system. An
ongoing IDA financial sector study is examining ways to improve the
performance of the principal financial intermediaries and their financial
environment for an expansion in private sector investment. In infrastructure
IDA has been heavily involved in the power sector in ten operations which have
contributed significantly to the development of the sector. Taking into
account the progress that has been made, both institutionally and in terms of
reliability of supply, IDA plans gradually to phase out of the sector.
However, one more operation is expected to be financed in the near future to
help rehabilitate the distribution systems managed by licensees to reduce
system losses and improve supply quality. As a result of damage and neglect
of maintenance occasioned by the civil conflict, there is now urgent need to
rehabilitate and maintain the transport system. An improved transport network
(road and rail) together with development of the telecommunications system,
will help support the needed revival of investment and output in the directly
productive sectors. Transport projects would primarily support rehabilitation
of the road and rail networks together with improved maintenance operations.
IDA supported investments in these areas will also introduce policy and
institutional reform measures to commercialize the entities operating in the
sub-sectors as well as generate revenues to ensure adequate operation and
maintenance and meet a share of such future needs as well as investment
requirements. In the social sectors, IDA is already supporting ongoing
operations in general education and health and family planning which address
the issues in these sectors discussed in para 31 above. Follow up projects
are expected in three to four years time. IDA is preparing a poverty
alleviation and employment project, which would include provision of credit to
poor households for production purposes, training, a rural works fund for
infrastructure rehabilitation as well as a nutrition component for infants and
pregnant and lactating mothers.
41.      Planned Lending Level and Composition.  For the FY91-95 period, the
lending program is planned at a level of about US$750 million depending on IDA
resource availabilities as well as country macro-economic and project
performance. Of this amount approximately 25-302 might be in the form of
adjustment lending to support continued policy reform and help reconstitute
the country's depleted foreign exchange reserves. Future IDA lending will
give increased emphasis to support for agriculture, industry, the related
financial sector, infrastructure (particularly transport), as well as the
social sectors.
42.      Coordination with IMF.  The IMF is playing a major role in Sri Lanka.
In very close cooperation with IDA, the Fund's agreement with the Government
on a second-year PFP and related Sectoral Adjustment Facility (SAF)
arrangement paved the way for the current program of reforms, which is being



-17-
supported with a third-year PFP. The Bank has also worked closely with the
Fund in preparing the ERC which was designed, in part, to support the IMF's
SAF program. IDA and Fund staff have participated in each other's missions in
processing both the PFP and the ERC.
43.      Aid Coordination.  The aid community's stance towards Sri Lanka
continues to be generally supportive despite the continuation of civil
disturbances. Following the Indo-Sri Lanka Peace Accord of 1987, the donors
pledged some US$500 million for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of areas
affected by the civil strife. The donors represent a large segment of the
international community, led by IDA, Japan and the ADB. IDA maintains
frequent exchanges of views with the Japanese authorities and ADB. The
collaboration has Increased over the last few years with the advent of
adjustment operations by IDA and ADB to support the Government's economic
reforms and increased Japanese aid presence in Sri Lanka. IDA chairs the
annual aid group meeting in Paris to discuss the broad thrust of the
Government's policies and to mobilize support for its development program. At
the field level, the Resident Hission convenes periodic donor meetings
covering macro-economic and sectoral issues as well as help coordinate
investments.
F. External Financing Requirements
44.      External Financing Requirements.  The 1990-93 balance of payments
projections are consistent with the third-year PFP, assume an improved
security situation and take into account the effect of the recent Gulf crisis
on workers remittances, lower tea export earnings and oil prices. The Gulf
crisis, however, has introduced a greater degree of uncertainty over economic
prospects. A continuing economic recovery is assumed with GDP growth
projected to grow from about 4.51 to 5.5X over the next three years. This
level of growth should be attainable provided the Government vigorously
implements its policy reform program and the civil situation improves further.
45.      In spite of some projected loss of tea export earnings in 1991, the
improved export performance observed in 1989 and 1990 is expected to continue,
supported by the planned measures to stimulate exports, including a flexible
exchange rate policy as well as more liberal industrial and investment
policies. Exports are expected to expand by about 12? annually in nominal US
dollar terms during 1990-93. Although imports of investment goods are
projected to rise, imports of rice and sugar are anticipated to decline with
increasing domestic production. While the cost of oil imports will rise,
there should be some offsetting decline in food imports. Thus, subject to the
oil crisis, imports are projected to increase by around 10? annually in
nominal terms. Accordingly, both trade and current account deficits are
projected to narrow over the program period, with the current account deficit
falling from about 8? in 1990 to 72 in 1991 and to 5? in 1993.
46.      Despite the improvement in the current account deficit, the annual
external financing requirement over 1990-91 is projected to be about US$900
million (see Annex II, Table 4). A part of this total is needed to build up
foreign exchange reserves to a more comfortable level. Reserves at 1.6 months
imports are quite low. In view of the planned further liberalization of the



-18-
economy in many areas and the uncertain outcome resulting from the Gulf
crisis, there is a pressing need to build a stronger reserve cushion. More
than half of the overall requirement is expected to be met through
disbursements from the existing pipeline, including commitments to finance the
reconstruction program and to support the authorities' structural and sectoral
adjustment programs. IMF financing of US$59 million under the third-year SAP
arrangement is taken into account for 1990. The remaining financing
requirements for 1990 and 1991 will be met from disbursements from expected
new commitments including fast disbursing adjustment lending from the proposed
IDA PMEAC, ADB financial sector loan and some bilateral cofinancing.
Disbursements from existing and new policy based operations are expected to
amount to US$150 million a year in 1990 and 1991. In addition, the amount of
quick disbursing aid for food and other commodities has traditionally been
about US$50 million a year. Assuming these levels of disbursements
materialize, gross official reserves would rise gradually from the equivalent
of 1.5 months of imports at the end of 1989 to 1.9 months of imports by the
end of 1993. The debt profile also would improve and the debt service ratio
(as a percentage of exports and remittances) would decline from 24Z in 1989 to
20? in 1991 and to 15? in 1993, provided Sri Lanka continues to limit
comercial borrowings.
G. Summary Assessment
47.      The central task facing Sri Lanka is to maintain fiscal and balance
of payments stability while taking structural measures to ensure a higher and
sustained rate of growth. After a faltering start to the adjustment effort in
1988, a strong budget introduced in late 1989, coupled with tight monetary and
credit policies have helped towards the restoration of fiscal and monetary
discipline during the course of 1990. Responding in part to these
stabilization measures and the depreciation of the exchange rate in late 1989
there has been some strengthening of the balance of payments and the foreign
exchange reserves position. These improvements in the domestic and external
accounts have been accompanied by an upturn in the rate of growth in the real
economy. However, the situation remains precarious and there is no room for
relaxation on the part of the authorities. Continued tight fiscal and
monetary policies, including the maintenance of appropriate interest rate
levels will be essential to contain domestic demand and curb the current high
rate of inflation and help strengthen the external sector. An active
exchange rate policy should be pursued with the objective of ensuring Sri
Lanka's export competitiveness and to assist in the reconstitution of the
country's foreign exchange reserves. The balance of payments and to a lesser
extent the budget will be negatively impacted by the Gulf crisis; the
Government will need to keep the situation closely under review and take
additional measures to offset any further adverse developments. While
continuing to grapple with the problem of maintaining short term stability,
the Government needs to move forward resolutely with its medium term
structural adjustment program, including curbing the size of the public
sector, through retrenchment of excess staff, commercialization and
divestiture of public enterprises and restructuring the costly and ill
targeted public welfare programs and (ii) the pursuit of trade, investment and
financial sector policies which will ensure a supportive environment for
private sector initiatives. A sustained high rate of growth in the economy



-19-
will contribute to easing the unemployment problem but the Government will
also need to address this issue and related poverty problem through well-
focussed programs for employment generation and selective upgrading of the
social services. Crucial to the success of the stabilization and adjustment
programs will be continued improvement in the internal security situation.
IDA's country assistance strategy would support the Government's stabilization
and policy reform programs through adjustment operations and help government
lay the foundation for higher and equitable growth through a range of
investment operations focussed mainly on the productive and social sectors.
The level of IDA support will substantially depend on the country's progress
in attaining the objectives set out in the PFP as well as IDA financed
adjustment operations.
II. THE PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES: ADJUSTMENT ISSUES
A. Performance of Public Manufacturing Enterprises
48.      Despite a decade of liberalization, PMEs still are an important
segment of the economy. The state owns about thirty major industrial
corporations and Government-owned undertakings, of which ten are in food,
beverages and tobacco processing, while the other twenty manufacture
industrial goods. Most enterprises are a legacy of the pre-1977 period when
the state grew to become the economy's largest entrepreneur through
nationalization or creation of enterprises.
49.      There are also about ten PME subsidiaries set up as limited liability
companies under the 1953 Companies Act, in which the majority of shares is
owned by the PME and the minority by a foreiba or domestic company. In
contrast to other PMEs, these subsidiaries have enjoyed considerable operating
autonomy. They rely extensively on the technical, managerial and marketing
support provided by the private partners. As a result, the subsidiaries'
operating and financing mode is similar to that of privately owned companies,
and their performance is reportedly significantly better on average than
PMEs'.
50.      Although PMEs remain a large segment of the industrial sector, they
contribute less than proportionately to industrial output and exports. In
1988 the twenty enterprises which manufacture industrial goods accounted for
332 of the national industrial production or about 31 of GDP and employed
about 40,000 people, representing 62 of the industrial labor force or about 1X
of total labor force. They contributed less than 52 of industrial exports (22
of total exports). PMEs' economic contribution is dominated by three
corporations, Ceylon Petroleum, National Textiles and Sri Lanka Cement. In
1988 they contributed about 702 of PME output, almost a third of non-food
industrial output and over a fifth of total industrial output. The Textiles
and Cement Corporations each contribute roughly 32 of national industrial
production (together accounting for about 12 of GDP). Half of the PME exports
were refined oil products from the Petroleum Corporation; the other half were
mainly minerals from the Mineral Sands, Mining and Mineral Corporations and
textiles from the National Textile Corporation. Annex III summarizes the



-20-
PMEs8 performance, relative to industry and GDP, since the economy's
liberalization in 1977.
51.      PME production has stagnated since liberalization, while private
industries have been thriving. PME output grew at an annual average of 1.22
in real terms during 1977-88, substantially lower than the growth of
manufacturing output at 13Z. Over the period, manufacturing GDP grew about 61
annually. Public industries' growth rate was less than 1Z. In contrast,
private industries are estimated to have grown more than 102 a year over the
period. Liberalization policies adopted in 1977 spurred the private sector to
establish new industries, particularly in textiles (knitting) and garments,
which have been the main thrust of private growth. Meanwhile, the Government
kept PMEs entangled in an array of controls and non-commercial functions,
which were compensated for by market privileges and budget financing.
Although subject to the same statutory controls as other PMEs, the National
Textiles and the Sri Lanka Cement Corporations, which have received foreign
managerial and technical assistance since the early 19809, have been
exceptions to the overall stagnation; however, both PMEs are still performing
below potential because of extensive bureaucratic controls and overdue
modernization.  Their output grew respectively at about 91 and 5Z per year
over the decade.
52.      PME financial performance has been poor on average.  Aside from the
Petroleum, Mineral Sands, Cement Corporations and two textile mills of the
National Textile Corporation, PMEs have either been marginally profitable or
accumulating losses, and returns on capital have been low or negative.
Moreover, marginally profitable PMEs would probably show significant losses if
internationally accepted accounting standards were applied and they did not
benefit from specific privileges in terms of protection against foreign and
domestic competition, monopolistic and monopsonistic advantages and access to
the budget and Government credit guarantees. The economic cost of PME
inefficiencies is not captured in the budget as the Government practically
stopped budgetary transfers to PMEs in 1982.  Since then, PMEs have resorted
to running down their production facilities andlor building arrears with the
Treasury and the state commercial banks. At the end of 1989 (see Annex III,
Table 8), the major PMEs owed the Treasury Rs 2.9 billion (equivalent to about
US$82 million) and banks Rs 1.8 billion (equivalent to US$51 million). The
debt was mainly on the account of two PMEs, Cement (Rs 1.6 billion or US$49
million--0.7X of GDP--due to the Treasury and Rs 479 million or US$13 million
due to banks) and Paper (Rs 0.87 billion or US$27 million due to the
Treasury). More than half of the PMEs' debt to the commercial banks is
estimated to be in arrears.
B.  PME Structural Issues
Regulatory, Incentive-related and Trade Issues
53.      Objectives.  PMEs' inefficiency results from the mutually
inconsistent functions managers have to fulfill. A PME is expected to provide
employment, reduce the cost of living, substitute for imports with little
at._ention to economic efficiency, and comply with bureaucratically rather than
commercially oriented rules and regulations. While the regulatory and trade



-21-
regimes were rationalized in phases since 1977, until recently the Government
maintained PME activities under extensive regulations but granted specific
PMEs trade protection and market privileges to shield them from increasing
market pressures and compensate for the regulatory framework, restricting
PMEs' incentives to adapt flexibly. Non-viable PME activities were thus
sustained, and potentially viable ones operated considerably below potential.
54.      PME Regulatory System.  PME management is characterized by extensive
Government regulation in practically all aspects of operations; in particular:
(i) appointments of all middle and higher level staff and managerial
promotions have to be approved by the supervisory ministry; (ii) levels of
salaries, wages, and fringe benefits are determined by the Government;
(iii) practically all investments have to be approved by a Cabinet
Subcommittee, the Committee of Development Secretaries (CDS) and a variety of
ministries; (iv) procurement of inputs (raw materials and equipment) has to be
approved by a tender board appointed by the ministry for purchases of over Rs
2 million and by the Cabinet for purchases over Rs 5 million; since
procurement takes from several months to two years, managers tend to order
inputs several months ahead of schedule and to overstock; (v) borrowing limits
from banks have to be approved by the Finance Ministry; and (vi) prices of
politically sensitive PME products, particularly textiles, are controlled by
the line ministries.
55.      The PME regulatory system is also related to the politicization of
PME management and the use of PMEs as a source of political patronage.  PME
chairmen are appointed by the President on recommendation of the line
ministers. Some board members are also political appointees. Until recently,
the hiring of workers was also politicized, since PMEs were required to hire
lower level workers from "Job banks" to which unemployed persons were
nominated by Parliament members. To some extent, the extensive regulations
governing PMEs were introduced to offset the effects of PME politicization.
'While the level of political patronage and, concurrently, the extent to which
regulations are enforced are not uniform and depend on the minister in charge
at a given time, most PMEs remain subject to strict enforcement of regulations
or political patronage--usually to both.
56.      Legal Framework.  The legal framework enables line ministries to
regulate PME operations extensively and treat them as extensions of their
bureaucracies rather than as autonomous entities. There are two types of
PMEs, State Industrial Corporations and Government Owned Business Undertakings
(GOBUs). The establishment of PMEs under the 1957 State Industrial
Corporation Act resulted from the Government's inward-looking industrial
policy and emphasis on self-reliance which prevailed until 1977. The public
sector invested in import substitution activities in which the country often
had no competitive advantage and in areas considered strategic. GOBUs,
established under the 1972 Business Acquisitions Act, resulted from outright
Government acquisition of private industrial enterprises, often to avoid the
closure of bankrupt firms with significant employment. The operations of
State Industrial Corporations are subject to extensive and quite restrictive
regulations, while GOBUs have practically no legal status and thus are treated
on par with departments by line ministries.



-22-
57.      Trade Protection.  Despite successive phases of reforms since 1977,
until recently the tariff structure reflected a 'made-to-measuret approach to
tariff setting. This approach slowed implementation of the last stages of
tariff rationalization, i.e., the further reduction of nominal tariffs to 50Z
and the average effective protection rate to 502. It explained the wide
dispersion in effective rates of protection, particularly the continued higher
levels of effective protection enjoyed by some PME activities, i.e., above the
targeted average of 50?, through higher than normal specific rates, although
tariffs on inputs imported by PMEs follow the overall trend of being fairly
low. For example, most activities of the Paper, Tyre, Plywoods and Leather
Corporations and a few activities of the Ceramics Corporation received
effective protection in the range of 200-300X. In contrast, other PME
activities, particularly in textile manufacture, received effective protection
of 602 or less. The Mineral Sands and Mining and Mineral Corporations had
negative protection. PMEs9 1987 effective protection rates are shown in Annex
III, Table 7. PME tariffs were lowered under the proposed credit (see para
85).
58.      Market Privileges.  In the mid-1980s, while the Government lifted
practically all bans and import monopolies to curtail the wide-spread
privileges previously afforded PMEs, there remained a few exceptions. For
instance, the State Hardware Corporation enjoyed a ban on the import of the
simple agriculture implements which it produced (except when production did
not meet demand). A few PMEs enjoyed domestic monopolies on specific
activities, such as imports of caustic soda and chlorine (Paranthan
Chemicals), production and distribution of salt (Salt) and mining rights
(Mineral Sands, Mining and Mineral, Cement, and Ceramics.) These exceptions
are being removed under the proposed credit (see para 86).
C. Institutional Issues
59.      Fragmentation of Supervision.  Fragmented supervision further impedes
PME managers' already heavily circumscribed scope of decision-making
authority. PMEs are currently supervised by five different ministries.
Allocation of PMEs, especially large ones, to ministries is done on a case by
case basis and often changes, reflecting specific ministers' political influ-
ence. The Textiles, Industries, Housing and Finance Ministries and the Prime
Minister's Office control the most important PMEs. In addition, the Finance
Ministry's Public Enterprises Division and the CDS exercise budgetary controls
over PME operations and investments. Further authority on operational credit
and financial matters is exercised by an ad hoc Parliamentary body, the
Committee on Public Enterprises. There is significant duplication of efforts
among these agencies. But ultimate authority over the PMEs resides with the
line ministries which have become deeply involved in their day-to-day manage-
ment.
60.      Weak Capital Structure and/or Deteriorated Production Facilities.
The Government's decision in 1982 to curtail fiscal injections to the PMEs,
without giving them sound capital structures, left some PMEs in serious
difficulties. Insufficient capital and/or cash generation bases led most PMEs
to incur too much debt (often short term), with high servicing costs, to be
able to maintain or modernize production facilities, which in turn reduced



-23-
profits and therefore ability to make capital expenditures necessary to equip
them to supply more lucrative markets or export. Paradoxically, the financial
condition of even the better performing PMEs (e.g. Mineral Sands and Mining
uad Mineral) has worsened since they are tapped as a source of fiscal revenues
through statutory dividends (i.e., a de facto tax) of 102 minimum on all
capital employed, regardless of whether the PMEs would need to reinvest rather
than distribute such funds. Such practices prevent the better PMEs from
generating sufficient funds from operations to modernize.
III. PAST PME REFORM ATTEMPTS AND DIALOGUE WITH THE BANK
A. Past Policy and Enterprise Reforms
61.      Fiscal and Trade Reforms.  In the early 1980s, the Government began
modifying the PME fiscal regime. In addition to practically stopping fiscal
transfers to PMEs, the Government adopted policies to increase PME exposure to
domestic market forces and international competition. It progressively
removed licensing requirements and rationalized tariffs, aiming at reducing
both the level and dispersion of effective protection. In early 1987, only
1.5 of imported items were dutied at rates in excess of 60Z. The bulk of
these items, dutied at 752, consisted of manufactured products, articles of
clothing, and some textiles. Some items, mainly textiles and agricultural
products, were dutied at 100?, while rates in excess of 1002 were applied to
tobacco and perfumes. Most tariffs were reduced to 60? in 1988, with a few
exceptions mainly for PMEs.
62.      Enterprise Reforms.  The Government also began restructuring the PMEs
in the textiles and cement industries. In textiles, the Government initiated
a first phase of reforms in 1980, reversing an earlier policy of substantial
public sector investment through a mix of divestment, private management
contracting and closures. Of the then seven public sector textile mills, the
Government placed four under private management contracts with international
textile firms in 1980; closed two mills, one in 1984 and the other in 1986;
and sold the assets of the remaining mills in 1987. Ten powerloom groups were
privatized over the period 1980-87. After these actions, in 1987 the
Government's direct involvement in the sector was reduced to four mills under
private contract, two remaining powerloom groups, a chain of handloom centers
and a pilot silk yarn production operation. In cement, the Government began
modernizing cement production by constructing a new, international scale
facility in the north of the island in 1981-82 and contracted long-term
foreign technical assistance to help improve the operations of two existing
Sri Lanka Cement Corporation plants. It also authorized a private clinker
factory to start operations on the west coast and opened the market to cement
imports, albeit at high tariff rates.
63.      However, the scope of such reforms remained limited during the 1980s,
despite the Cabinet's policy decision in mid-1985 to divest PMEs to raise
budgetary resources and close loss-making PMEs that could not be revived or
sold. The main reason was that the CDS, which the Cabinet vested with the
task of specifying the PMEs to be sold or closed, recommended that a large



-24-
number of PMEs be retained for security reasons. Moreover, PMEs recommended
for closure included those which had already been closed down, such as the
Fertilizer Corporation. Only a few PMEs were classified as either profit-
making or appropriate for rehabilitation and therefore as candidates for
divestiture. Not surprisingly, this limited action program was based on the
line ministries, recommendations to the CDS, and implementation was poor.
However, legislative and valuation steps were initiated to prepare PMEs for
sale. In August 1986 the Cabinet submitted a Bill to Parliament to enable the
conversion of Public Corporations and GOBUs into Public Companies. With IDA
support, a review of PME assets and capital structures was conducted to
evaluate net worth and recommend new capital structures. Recommendations were
provided for 15 major PMEs. But neither capital restructuring nor divestiture
was implemented. The Government lacked the technical expertise to deal with
privatization on a significant scale and, above all, the political imperative
was weak.
B. Redirection of PME Reform under the 1988-90 Policy Framework
64.      In 1987-88 PME reform efforts were redirected, with IDA support,
through the work of three high level commissions on tariffs, industrial policy
and public administration. The Presidential Tariff Commission advocated
reducing industries' overall effective protection to 502 by introducing a
four-rate system ranging from 5 to 50X. The Industrial Policy Committee
urged the Government to reduce interference in PME management and, stressing
the importance of letting PMEs function in the same manner as private sector
enterprises, suggested a three-pronged strategy--to expose PMEs to a
competitive environment, reform the PME management and supervision system and
prepare PMEs for privatization. Finally, the Administrative Reform Committee
recommended the establishment of a Public Investment Corporation responsible
for overall supervision of Government investment in PMEs, including appointing
PME boards and chief executives, approving corporate plans, appointing
external auditors and assisting in PME privatization as decided by the
Cabinet.
65.      These recommendations provided the basis for a PME reform program
under the 1988-90 Policy Framework. The program had two components related to
conversion of PMEs into public companies and to PME privatization. First, in
1988 the Government was to convert sixteen PMEs whose assets would represent
about half of PME total assets (excluding petroleum and cement) into companies
under the Companies Act and prepare them for possible privatization. The
newly incorporated companies' shares were initially to be divided between the
Ministry of Finance and the relevant line ministries. These companies were to
be free to determine their employment levels as well as their pay scales and
not to be subject to Government tender and investment approval procedures. At
the same time, with the 1988 budget, most remaining PME special privileges
were to be removed.  Second, the Government was to divest a few PMEs to the
public.
66.      PME reform implementation was again limited under the first-year PFP.
A newly established Presidential Commission for Privatization selected mostly
small PMEs for conversion into public companies. It also selected three
corporations, the United Motors, Ceylon Oxygen and State Distilleries



-25-
Corporations, for sale, on the basis that they were profitable and their
equity was small enough to be absorbed by the limited domestic capital market.
The Bill to Parliament enabling the conversion of Public Corporations and
GOBUs into Public Companies was passed, with one significant change.
Parliament decided that the newly incorporated companies' shares would not be
divided between the Ministry of Finance and the relevant ministries but that
the Treasury would be the sole shareholder. However, no PMEs other than the
three to be sold were prepared for conversion into public companies. For the
t1.ree PMEs, asset valuations and other required technical steps were completed
in 1988. However, with the country beset by widespread political violence, no
conversions or privatizations took place. A few important regulatory reforms
were effected. The Government removed a number of product-specific licensing
requirements as well as regulatory functions of specialized agencies, in
particular the licensing of domestic investment by the Local Investments
Approval Committee. But other line ministry regulatory functions with regard
to PME operations and remaining PME specific privileges were not removed.
67.      The piecemeal reforms initiated during the 1980s put the PMEs under
contradictory pressures. The economic environment became increasingly
c.ompetitive, weakening PMEs' financial performance, but the maintenance of
extensive regulations and operational rigidities constrained PMEs' ability to
adapt to the changing environment. This approach risked creating a backlash
against PME reform. Since the Government could no longer postpone essential
structural reforms to complement the stabilization program envisaged in the
second-year PFP, it requested IDA's assistance to formulate a comprehensive
program of PME reforms, translating into action and expanding on the
recommendations of the three high-level committe?s.
C. Preparation of a Comprehensive PME Reform Prosram
68.      Two major studies were conducted in 1989 to help develop a more
comprehensive approach to PME reform. A PME Sensitivity Study focused on the
sensitivity of the economic and financial performance of the PMEs under the
Textile and Industries Ministries to planned changes in the trade regime and
expected trends in market conditions. Another study reviewed institutional
arrangements facilitating PME reform implementation.
The PME Sensitivity Study
69.      Building on the work completed in 1987 by the Presidential Tariff
Commission, the Presidential Commission for Privatization employed IDA-
financed consultants to help it review the PMEs' financial and economic
viability, screening activities that had good prospects (after restructuring)
to be economically and commercially viable from those which were fundamentally
non-viable or for which the necessary restructuring would be uneconomic. The
study also identified remaining market privileges which should be phased out.
The findings suTmarized below were incorporated in the formulation of the
Government's comprehensive PME reform program.
70.      The study indicated that restructuring a number of PIE activities
would yield attractive economic returns. They comprised all activities of the
National Textile Corporation's four textiles mills and of the Mineral Sands,



-26-
Mining and Mineral Development and Cement Corporations, most of the Ceramics
Corporation's activities and some activities of the Leather, Hardware, Plywood
and Tyre, Paper and Salt Corporations. The study recommended progressive
liquidation of all other activities. Concurrently, the study recommended
proceeding with tariff rationalization within the 52 to 502 range, starting
with PHE products and removing PMEs' remaining market privileges, such as an
import ban on simple agriculture implements made by the State Hardware
Corporation, the Paranthan Chemicals Corporation's monopoly on imports of
caustic soda and chlorine and the Salt Corporation's salt distribution
monopoly. The study also emphasized the needs to restrict mining and mineral
PMEs' country-wide mining rights to specific sites, separate the regulatory
functions that PMEs had over such mining rights from their commercial
functions and vest regulatory functions with a specialized entity within the
Industries Ministry.
71.        The PME Sensitivity study concluded that most viable PMEs under
review urgently needed large modernization programs and extensive managerial
support. The size of such needs suggested the utility of involving foreign
firms in joint ventures with the Government and local private investors. The
study recommended joint ventures with foreign investors for the four textiles
mills, the Mineral Sands Corporation and the Mining and Mineral Development
Corporation, as each would have good export prospects with proper foreign
technical, managerial and financial assistance. Efficiency gains from the
transfer of managerial expertise had already been demonstrated through the
textiles management contracts with foreign firms. Foreign joint ventures
would be expected to transfer technology and give access to export markets,
helping PMEs adjust to a competitive environment. Also, they would be
especially at..ractive to Sri Lanka because of their potentially significant
balance of payments impact, both in terms of financial flows at the time of
investments and over time, in terms of increased exports. The study also
identified the potential for domestic joint ventures for PMEs such as
Ceramics, Leather and Plywoods. In particular, it endorsed the Ceramics
Corporation's past strategy of floating domestic subsidiaries for specific
activities. It further recommended that all ceramics-related activities
including raw materials production be spun off and privatized, attracting both
domestic and foreign investors.
Implementation Framework Study
72.      Building on the Administration Reform Committee's work, the
Presidential Commission for Privatization also engaged IDA-financed
consultants to advise on institutional arrangements to facilitate PME reform.
Past difficulties in reform implementation had highlighted the fact that the
lack of centralized technical skills in financially restructuring and
privatizing PMEs could considerably affect the pace of reform since some large
PMEs could not easily be privatized without major financial restructuring.
Also, major PMEs have been scattered over five different ministries and often
shuttled from one ministry to the other. The study recommended bringing PMEs,
upon conversion, under the purview of a commercially oriented holding entity,
accountable to the Treasury. This entity would help PMEs develop and
implement individual restructuring plans and adopt commercial business
practices. The study defined the entity's characteristics, i.e., its mandate,



-27-
powers, authority, relation to other branches of Government, and structure.
Based on the study's recommendations, in June 1989 the Finance Minister
advised Cabinet to entrust the restructuring of specific PMEs to a
commercially oriented Public Investment Management Board (PIMB), to be
established under the Treasury.
IV. THE PROPOSED PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
73.      The proposed PMEAC would support the phased implementation of the
Government's comprehensive PME reform program formulated on the basis of the
recommendations of the PME Sensitivity and Implementation Framework Studies.
The program encompasses policy reforms in the PME regulatory-institutional
framework and incentive system as well as detailed enterprise-specific
measures enabling viable PME activities to adjust to a commercial and
increasingly competitive environment, particularly through domestic and
foreign joint ventures. The program is detailed in the Letter of Sectoral
Development Policies in Annex IV and summarized in the Policy Matrix in
Annex V. PMEAC would be disbursed in two tranchess one upon credit
effectiveness (expected in November 1990) on the basis of policy, legislative,
institutional and textile reforms already taken; and the other in
approximately November 1991, when implementation of the Industries Ministry's
program outlined in this section is completed. Conditions for second tranche
release are summarized in Annex VI.
74.      To ensure policy and enterprise reforms, the Government has developed
a four-pronged strategy, consisting of:
(i)   removing remaining specific PME tariff protection, market
privileges and fiscal support to increase competitive
pressures on PHE operations;
(ii)   providing a new institutional framework to supervise and
maximize returns on the Government's investment in the
converted PMEs, inducing those which would continue to be
controlled by the Treasury (i.e. majority Government
ownership and no private management contract) to adopt an
autonomous commercial operating mode, be accountable for
performance and adapt flexibly to increased competition;
(iii)   converting into companies and privatizing viable PME
activities to remove the Government regulations over labor,
wages, sourcing of inputs and pricing of output. These
steps specifically entail changing the PMEs' legal status,
restructuring their financial structure, privatizing and
modernizing viable operations and liquidating non-viable
ones through foreign joint ventures and domestic sales of
shares; and
(iv) progressively phasing out non-viable PME activities.



-28-
75.      In implementing the strategy, PME reforms would be sequenced to
complete regulatory, incentive-related and institutional reforms before the
end of 1990 to ensure that PME conversion and privatization occur in a
reasonably competitive environment. The detailed enterprise-by-enterprise
reform program would then be implemented, first completing the privatization
and modernization of the National Textiles Corporation's two remaining mills
and liquidation of its headquarters, then dealing with mining and mineral PMEs
and the remaining PMEs under the Industries Ministry.
76.      The proposed credit would assist the Government in implementing the
strategy outlined above for all fourteen major PMEs under the two key line
ministries responsible for industry, i.e., the Textiles and Industries
Ministries. In consultation with the Ministry of Finance, both ministries
have agreed to relinquish regulatory powers over the fourteen PMEs, to
progressively remove price controls on PME outputs as tariffs are reduced, and
have been actively seeking foreign direct investment to develop the PME
potential for export-led growth. Concurrently with these regulatory,
incentive-related and trade reforms, a financial holding company, the Public
Investment Management Board, has been established to manage the Government's
investment in converted and privatized PMEs on behalf of the Ministry of
Finance. The Board will also help PMEs not immediately privatized to
restructure operations and adapt to a commercial and increasingly competitive
environment.
77.      The fourteen PMEs to be converted into public companies and
privatized through foreign (and domestic) joint ventures under the credit,
include the National Textiles Corporation's four textiles mills (Thulhiriya,
Pugoda, Veyangoda, Mattegama) and the Industries Ministry's Mineral Sands,
Mining and Mineral, Ceramics, Leather, Hardware, Plywood, Tyre, Paper, Salt
and Paranthan Chemicals Corporations. These PMEs have 30,000 employees
representing 42 of industrial employment and account for more than 80Z of
public sector non-food industrial output (excluding the Petroleum and Cement
Corporations) or about 9Z of total non-food industrial production. The assets
of one large fertilizer plant will be dismantled and sold to foreign parties,
and the assets of a smaller chemical plant sold to local parties.
78.      Also under the credit, the Government will conduct strategic studies
of cement, pulp and paper, and salt-based activities. The objective of the
cement strategic study is to rehabilitate and modernize the cement industry
and review the constraints on the two state-owned cement factories' efficiency
and restructure their debt, which represents half of the PME debt to the
Treasury (Ra 1.6 billion or 0.72 of GDP). Similarly, the objective of the
strategic study of pulp and paper manufacture is to review the constraints on
the National Paper Corporation's efficiency and restructure its debt. The
objective of the strategic study of salt-based activities is to restructure
and privatize existing salt extracting and processing operations to improve
productivity and salt quality. The Petroleum Corporation will be reviewed
under an IDA energy sector study. Concurrently with the PME reform program
supported by the proposed credit, the Government is divesting small PMEs
directly in the domestic market with United States Agency for International
Development assistance.



-29-
A. Regulatory, Incentives and Trade Reforms
Regulatory Reforms
79.      PME Regulatory System.  The Government has decided to free PMEs from
the line ministries' extensive regulations constraining their ability to
respond to market forces. The Government has been progressively amending the
legal framework on which the PME regulatory framework was based. The
Conversion Act No 23 of 1987 enables the conversion of public corporations and
GOBUs into public companies, thus freeing the PMEs from heavily regulated
procurement, labor and pricing procedures under the 1957 State Industrial
Corporations Act and providing legal autonomy to GOBUs. Also, in late 1988
the Government repealed the Business Acquisition Act, legislation from the
19709 which enabled expropriation of any private concern and establishment of
a GOBU if the Government considered it to be in the country's interest. Based
on these two measures, the Government began commercializing potentially viable
enterprises by converting PMEs into public sector companies, under the
Companies Act. However, to enable systematic PME conversion, the Gratuity Act
had to be amended.
80.      Amendment of Gratuity Act.  When a PME is converted into a company,
the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983 obligates it to pay accumulated
gratuities to its employees. (Employers' statutory contribution to employees
in respect of the years of completed service.) If gratuities have to be paid
in cash to employees who retain their jobs in a converted PME at the time of
conversion, the resulting cash outlays would seriously constrain the rate at
which PMEs could be converted into companies and slow down PME reform
implementation. The Government has therefore drafted an amendment to the
Gratuity Act that provides for gratuities to be paid in the form of ten-year
bonds, issued by the Central Bank and redeemable by the workers upon maturity
or when they leave the enterprise. In July 1990 the Cabinet agreed on a bill
to be sent to Parliament to enact this amendment. The bill is expected to be
discussed by Parliament before the end of 1990.
81.      The framework for managing the country's mining and mineral resources
will also be reformed. PMEs' regulatory and monopoly functions over mining
and mineral resources will be separated from their commercial functions and
vested with a new regulatory entity, i.e., the Bureau of Mines, to be
established within the Industries Ministry. The Bureau will issue exploration
or exploitation licenses. To permit such changes, the Government prepared a
new mining and mineral development legislation. The legislation, which will
supersede the 1973 Mining and Mineral Development Act, focuses on licensing
generic or specific exploration rights and leasing exploitation rights for
specific sites. A bill to enact the Mining and Mineral legislation, which is
critical to the restructuring of the mining and mineral industries, is
expected to be sent to Parliament by the end of 1990.
New Incentive System
82.      The Government accepted the PME Sensitivity Study's recommendation
that joint ventures with foreign firms could help provide the large
modernization programs and extensive managerial support urgently needed by



-30-
most viable PMEs. The Government has significantly improved its ability to
attract foreign investment by taking difficult steps to regain both political
and macroeconomic stability. Moreover, the Government is improving other
important aspects of an investor's operating environment, such as
communication facilities, availability of a skilled labor force and domestic
support industries, and streamlined foreign investment administration and
information about investment opportunities, particularly in converted PMEs.
Recent measures taken by the Government to promote domestic and foreign
investment are expected to contribute to encouraging private investors'
participation in PME commercialization, as explained below.
83.      Industrialization Strategy.  The 1989 Budget Speech stated that the
Government would rely on private investment to lead the way to renewed growth.
In December 1989 the Government announced a strategy to promote industrial
growth, with special emphasis on export incentives, development of marketing
services, infrastructural support and manpower training. The strategy is
clearly outward looking and also points to the Government's reliance on the
private sector as an engine of growth. The strategy delineates the public and
private sectors' respective roles in the country's industrial development,
stressing equal public and private sector access to financing, equal pricing
flexibility as well as equal effective protection for comparable industries.
The strategy also confirms that all PMEs will be commercialized and be
privatized whenever possible. It takes into account both the need for a
transparent, cost-effective and non-discriminatory system of incentives as
well as long-term infrastructure, technology and skill requirements for
industrialization. To facilitate implementation, the Government has formed a
high level committee to coordinate policy and incentives across ministries.
Also, a new Industrial Promotion Act, which is being formulated on the basis
of the Industrialization Strategy, is expected to be enacted in early 1991,
permitting a complete removal of price regulation on industrial products which
are not monopolies.
84.      Foreign Direct Investment.  The industrialization strategy
acknowledges the key role that foreign direct investment can play in
alleviating domestic shortages of critical factors such as capital,
specialized skills, transfer of technology and managerial expertise, and
access to foreign markets. To actively promote such investment, the
Government has already consolidated all approval procedures in one entity, the
Greater Colombo Economic Commission. In late 1989 restrictions on foreign
equity investment in existing enterprises and the 1002 tax on transfer of
equity shares to foreigners were eliminated. To further emphasize the foreign
investment promotion measures announced in the industrialization strategy, the
Government is formulating a comprehensive foreign investment strategy that
would clearly outline the new, streamlined procedures as well as guarantees
afforded foreign investors. In May 1990 the Industries Ministry published a
portfolio of investment opportunities, mainly in state enterprises. The
portfolio is now being distributed to foreign banks, Chambers of Commerce and
development institutions. The Government has received assistance from the
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency's and IFC's Foreign Investment
Advisory Services in finalizing the foreign investment strategy and taking
steps to further promote foreign investment. The foreign investment strategy
should be announced before the end of 1990.



-31-
Trade Reforms
85.      Trade Protection.  Concurrently with their commercialization, PMEs
are being further exposed to market forces. To reduce the high protection
afforded to specific PMEs and increase domestic industries' competitiveness,
in May 1990 the Government reviewed effective protection under prevailing
nominal and specific tariff rates, in preparation for lowering the maximum
nominal tariff rate from 60? to 50 and simplification of the tariff system
from nineteen to four tariff bands, in which industrial goods of comparable
manufacturing complexity are to be dutied at similar rates. In June 1990, the
Presidential Tariff Commission recommended to duty paper, tyres and textiles
materials at S02, while plywood and leather products would be dutied at 35X.
Duty on cotton yarn has been reduced to 10?. These rates will be announced
with the 1991 Budget in November 1990, together with a further reduction of
textile materials duty to 35?, effective in November 1991 (the 1992 Budget),
and to 252, effective in November 1992 (the 1993 Budget). As stated in the
December 1989 Industrialization Strategy, after a two-year period of
experimenting with the four-rate tariff system, the overall industrial
protection will be assessed with a view to further reducing tariff other than
textiles.
86.      Market Privileges.  Remaining market privileges for specific PMEs are
being progressively phased out. In June 1990, the Cabinet decided to remove
the state monopoly on production and distribution of salt and on salt-based
activities. It also decided to remove the state monopoly on imports of simple
agriculture implements and directed the Presidential Tariff Commission to
assign a suitable duty to such imports. In July 1990, the Cabinet decided to
remove the Paranthan Chemicals Corporation's monopoly on caustic soda and
chlorine imports. Suitable duties will also be assigned to such imports. The
new duties will be announced with the four-rate tariff system in November 1990
while removal of monopolies will be gazetted before the end of 1990. Finally,
once the new Mining and Mineral Law is in effect in early 1991, mining and
mineral PMEs' exploitation rights will be progressively restricted to specific
sites.
B. Institutional Reforms
87.      The Finance Ministry is primarily responsible for the supervision of
the Government's investment in converted PMEs since the Treasury holds the
shares, on the Government's behalf. Hence, it will also be responsible for
the supervision of the PME reform program's implementation, in consultation
with the line ministries, in particular the Ministry of Industries, Science
and Technology (MOI) and PIMB. PIMB was established in September 1989 to
assist the Treasury in managing the Government's equity investment in public
companies and particularly in ensuring that PMEs not privatized upon
conversion adapt flexibly to a commercial mode of operation, gaining full
autonomy in labor and wage management, pricing, procurement of inputs and in
seeking conservative equity/debt financing. Equally importantly, PIMB is to
ensure that PMEs are fully accountable for the newly acquired operating
autonomy, through accurate accounting and timely performance reporting.



-32-
88.      Through incorporation under the Companies Act in March 1990, PIMB has
the legal capacity to hold shares directly and to enter into legal agreements,
on behalf of Treasury, with the public companies outlining the respective
rights and obligations of Lhe public companies and their shareholders. The
Agency Agreements which PIMB will enter with converted PMEs solely owned by
the Government will specify the criteria which PIMB will use to judge the
companies' performance (mainly profit-related criteria) and establish
monitoring requirements. To ensure performance of converted and privatized
PMEs, PIMB may enter into a Shareholders' Agreement (standard under company
law) when private ownership is at least 51Z and a Private Management Contract
as well as a Shareholders' Agreement when private ownership is less than 51Z.
Moreover, to optimize the Government's equity investment in public companies
and assist converted PMEs in developing and implementing restructuring plans,
PIMB is now in the process of strengthening its board and staff and of hiring
the services of foreign consultants. The Government appointed the Deputy
Secretary, Treasury as Chairman of PIMB and recruited a director general from
the private sector. In addition, it is in the process of contracting the
regular services of consulting firms experienced in PME privatization.
89.      MOI no longer licenses domestic investment, and by mid-1991 it and
the Textiles Ministry will stop controlling industrial product prices and PME
operations. As a result, both ministries are now focusing on promoting
industrial development and private investment. A new ministerial team was
appointed on March 30, 1990 to promote handlooms and textile industries. The
Industries Minister, who was reappointed on March 30, has initiated a complete
structural change, reorganizing his ministry by main policy functions to
promote industrial development. Activities have been redeployed along six
main policy functions--trade and export promotion, management and human
resources development, institutional and infrastructure support, technology
development, investment promotion, market development and consumer services.
To promote private investment, the Minister has established an Industrial
Commission and the Sri Lanka Council for Industry which will both provide a
forum for various chambers of commerce and major entrepreneurs to voice
business opinions. In addition, MOI recruited a coordinator and private
sector mining and mineral specialist to supervise MOI's commercialization and
privatization program. While MOI's new organization is now operational, if
needed, further institutional development support will be provided under the
proposed technical assistance.
C. Enterprise Reforms
90.      Enterprise reforms aim at involving private investors at an early
stage of the PME reform program by removing micro barriers to significant
private investment in PME such as debt overhang, limits to private equity
participation, non-viable activities or unrealistic asset valuations. The
conversion and privatization process as well as specific PME reform programs
of the Ministry of Handlooms and Textiles Industries (MOT), the Ministry of
Industries, and the Ministry of Housing and Construction are detailed below.
Reforms are largely underway.



-33-
The Conversion and Privatization Process
91.      Conversion and privatization steps have been completed by two
textiles mills, Thulhiriya and Pugoda, and are well advanced for a third
textile mills, Veyangoda. They are expected to be taken by the remaining
public textile mills, Mattegama, before the end of 1990 and by all other MOI's
PMEs before the end of 1991. These steps involve (a) assets and liabilities
valuation, (b) debt/capital restructuring, (c) directors' selection and
appointment upon conversion of a PME into a company, (d) negotiation of an
Agency Agreement, a Shareholders' Agreement or a Shareholders' Agreement and a
private management contract, depending on the extent of private participation
as indicated in para 88. Following the conversion of a PME into a public
sector company and privatization, the company focuses on the preparation and
implementation of detailed restructuring plans for specific activities;
training, redeploying or retrenching labor and management; and conservatively
structuring its capital (e.g. 50o debt: 502 equity) when major modernization
programs are undertaken. Finally, when a public sector company has restored
credibility in its ability to generate sufficient profit and remunerate
shareholders through a regular and attractive dividends distribution, it can
initiate public offerings (to raise additional financing for modernization
through public share issues) and employee share ownership plans (special
shares issue or conversion of gratuity bond into shares to involve employees
in the company's ownership).
Ministry of Textiles Reform Program
92.       Privatization and Modernization.  The National Textiles
Corporation's (NTC's) four mills, which were under foreign private management
contracts since the early 1980s, are being spun off as independent companies,
privatized and modernized through foreign joint ventures, following whlch NTC
is to be liquidated. Upon privatization, the four mills will compete freely
both domestically and for export sales as MOT's controls over textile prices
will no longer be legally justified. Because modernization for export
requires specialized technology and capital intensive investment, the
Government has been seeking 602-100? foreign participation in the mills' share
capital. The two largest mills, Thulhiriya and Pugoda, were divested over the
last twelve months. Thulhiriya was sold outright to a Korean textile company,
and an Indian textile investor acquired a 60? participation in Pugoda. Both
investors have restructured and modernized the mills, mainly for exports. The
divestiture of the third mills, Veyangoda, is still underway. A Memorandum of
Understanding for the acquisition of Veyangoda by a private sector company is
expected to be signed before the end of 1990.
93.      Modernization investments are enabling the mills to maintain
production, raise efficiency and progressively turn to exports, indirectly by
supplying Sri Lankan garment exporters and directly by exporting grey cloth to
western markets. There is a large domestic supply deficit in competitive
texti.e materials. Textile materials imports reached US$277 million in 1988,
as only 35? of garment exports are manufactured from local supplies. While
the domestic textile mills have a location advantage over forei3n suppliers,
they must achieve international standards of quality, cost and reliability, if



-34-
they are to secure garment exporters' orders. To develop the mills'
capabilities to meet local garment exporters' needs and to export directly,
large equity infusions have been required for modernization investments,
costing about Rs 700-800 million per mills, while maintaining manageable debt
levels. Modernization programs are significantly underway for the privatized
Thulhiriya and Pugoda mills and will be undertaken by the private company
acquiring the Veyangoda mills.
94.      MOT intends to liquidate NTC by the end of 1991, following
divestiture of the Mattegama textile mills. NTC's liabilities and the largest
bank debt, i.e., Rs 217 million for Veyangoda, will be paid from the proceeds
of the sale of the Thulhiriya mills. The other mills' bank debts do not
exceed Rs 36 million per mills. Debt is therefore being settled by individual
investors. NTC's liabilities consist of a debt to the Treasury of Rs 326
million, which the Government refinanced in 1980 and has been writing off, at
an annual rate of Rs 42 million since 1984. NTC must also make gratuity and
compensation payments to the 45 staff still on its payroll (estimated at about
Rs 50,000 per worker or a total of Rs 2.5 million) in addition to gratuity
payments (Rs 2 million) to about 1,000 workers who lost employment during a
major strike in July 1980, a total of Rs 4.5 million.
Hinistry of Industries Reform Program.
95.      Overall Strategy.  MOI intends to convert all PMEs under its purview
into companies before the end of 1991 and selectively privatize them along the
steps indicated in para 91. Commercialization and privatization strategies
for mining and mineral PMEs are at an advanced stage of formulation and
implementation, while most other PMEs have already been advertised for sale.
96.      Strategy for Mining and Mineral PMEs.  To improve the mining and
mineral industries' prospects for growth and export development, the
Government's strategy is to have several independent joint venture companies,
each for a specialized mineral activity, i.e., mineral sands, graphite,
phosphate, raw materials for ceramics manufacture and salt. To separate
commercial from regulatory functions, the rights to exploit these minerals
will be administered by a regulatory entity, i.e., the Bureau of Mines, to be
established within MOI when the new mining and mineral development legislation
is passed. This regulatory entity will survey and value existing mineral
deposits. It will then lease rights to specific deposits to specialized
mineral companies. The rights, together with existing PMEs' assets, will form
the basis of the Government's equity investments in individual mining or
mineral companies. Modernization and expansion in new export-oriented
activities will be financed by foreign direct equity investments and bank
loans instead of Treasury funds.
97.      Strategies for Other PMEs.  Since a few of the activities of the PMEs
in this group have been enjoying effective protection in excess of 15OX, the
Government recently lowered the relevant nominal tariffs to 50Z or less,
depending on the manufacturing complexity of individual products, and removed
remaining market privileges. In September 1990, the Government advertised the
sale of four Corporations, Leather, Hardware, Tyre and Plywoods, and is
currently reviewing offers from private sector companies. Nevertheless, in



-35-
anticipation of possible difficulties of selling all PME activities to private
investors over a one year period, MOI has introduced performance contract:
with the Leather and Tyre Corporations on a pilot basis. Moreover, with
assistance financed under an on-going Project Preparation Facility (PPF), MOI
has been fielding several sector studies to outline restructuring strategies,
particularly in salt and paper industries. If needed, further studies will be
financed under the proposed technical assistance. The Government intends to
discuss financial and physical restructuring options for the Paper Corporation
with the Federal Republic of Germany's Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW),
which financed the Paper Corporation's modernization in the recent past.
Restructuring strategies for salt extracting and processing operations as well
as for paper operations are expected to be adopted by the Government before
the end of 1991.
Cement Industry Reform Program
98.      Strategic Review of the Sri Lanka Cement Industry.  In September
1990, the Miaistry of Housing and Construction, which oversees the cement
industry, has embarked on a major strategic study to restructure domestic
cement production and alleviate constraints to the cement industry's
development. The study will identify uncompetitive cement manufacturing lines
which need to be closed and lines worth modernizing as well as review
infrastructure constraints and development options, such as marine versus road
transport of supplies for bagged versus bulk cement. It will also investigate
limestone reserves and recommend strategies to switch from existing to new
limestone deposits and allocate mining concessio's. Recommendations are
expected to be available in mid-1991. The strLtegy to restructure and
modernize the cement industry is expected to be adopted by the Government
before the end of 1991.
99.      Debt Restructuring.  In the early 1980s the Sri Lanka Cement
Corporation financed a large modernization pro'ect at Jaffna from foreign
commercial loans, amounting to US$41 million. Since completion in 1983, the
project has never been fully operative, initially due to insufficient power
supply (until a dedicated power plant was constructed) and then to unstable
political conditions in the North, where the plant is located. The Treasury,
which guaranteed the foreign loans, serviced them until they were fully repaid
in 1989. As a result, the Corporation has accumulated the largest debt of all
PMEs. Debt accrued at the end of 1989 amounted to Rs 1,590 million (or half
the total PME debt to the Treasury). Debt to local banks is more reasonable,
amounting to Rs 480 million at the end of 1989. In early 1989 a joint capital
restructuring committee, comprising represent&tives of the Cement Corporation
and the Finance and Housing Ministries, examined the possibilities of
restructuring the Corporation's debt. The committee in May 1990 submitted
debt restructuring proposals to the Cabinet. The Cabinet is expected to
decide on debt restructuring actions before the end of 1990, for
implementation during 1991.
Environmental Assessment
100.     The National Environmental Act No. 47 of 1980 and No. 56 of 1988
requires Environmental Impact Assessments to be submitted to the CEA. It is



-36-
applicable to all private and public development activities likely to have
significant adverse biophysical and social impacts. CEA supervises the work
of a number of agencies, including the industries Ministry, on environmental
assessments of specific development projects. Each PME submits restructuring
plans containing modernization or expansion projects to the Industries
Ministry. The Industries Ministry assesses the project's environmental impact
in consultation with CEA and amends modernization projects presenting an
adverse impact on the environment.
D. Proiected Benefits and Risks
101.     The PME reform program's benefits are expected to accrue from
realizing the potential for export-led growth in activities now dominated by
PMEs, particularly textiles, mining and minerals, which has not been achieved
under public management. The program to be supported under the proposed PMEAC
is expected to enhance such prospects for growth and increase export revenues
from privatized PMEs. The best export prospects are in mineral sands, other
mining and mineral activities and textiles. PME exports in these activities
nearly doubled between 1987 and 1988, reaching US$19 million in 1988.
Expansions in joint ventures with foreign investors are expected to accelerate
exports, with annual revenues anticipated to exceed US$100 million and
increased annual fiscal contributions in the range of US$20 million. The PME
reform program will also correct PMEs' operational rigidities and thereby
strengthen their financial position, reducing the pressures on the financial
system. Prior to 1982, most PMEs were subsidized by explicit budgetary
transfers. Since then, transfers have been drastically curtailed but no
significant steps have been taken to correct these rigidities. PMEs have been
forced to finance them by running down their capital stocks and increasing
borrowings. Borrowings are in the form of short term public commercial bank
loans which PMEs have rolled over to finance long-term assets or long-term
loans bearing the Government's guarantee. Both types of loans to insolvent
PMEs constitute contingent liabilities for the Treasury.
102.     The reform program's direct costs stem primarily from restructuring
the Cement and Paper Corporations' debt to Treasury. NTC's liabilities will
be settled from the sales of its mills to private investors. Due to scarce
human and financial resources, the Government decided to primarily rely on the
private sector to restructure and modernize converted PMEs. As a result,
retrenchment, liquidation and modernization decisions as well as financing
will r st primarily with private investors. In general, PME factories have
insufficient skilled workers and managers but rather large unskilled labor
forces. The latter do not represent a significant cost burden and enable PME
managements to maintain production despite high absenteeism. Based on
experience to date with the National Textile Corporation's privatization
(9,000 employees), labor retrenchment is occurring mainly in the PMEs' Colombo
headquarters which are to be either streamlined or liquidated. The foreign
parties who recently invested in the two NTC mills both maintained employment
while achieving significant productivity increases by doubling installed
capacity. Assuming similar experience in t'.e remainder of the restructuring
program, only about 5,000 of the 30,000 employees currently employed by the
PMEs considered under the proposed credit may not be retained in the
restructured enterprises. As a result, labor retrenchment concerns the



-37-
Government less than the development of the existing labor force's technical
and managerial skills. The Government has therefore been focusing on
expanding services offered by specialized training and development
institutions to provide or improve technical and managerial skills in both the
public and private industrial work force. The United Nations Development
Programme and International Labor Organization, which helped the Government
establish specialized institutions such as the National Institute of Business
management in 1968 and the Textiles Training and Services Centers in 1984, are
further assisting the Government in expanding existing and offering new
training and development services to industries.
103.     The PME reform strategy will depend highly on the stability of the
political environment, since foreign direct investments, a critical feature of
the reform program, will be particularly affected if the Government fails to
maintain political stability. PME reforms are also politically sensitive
domestically and therefore difficult to implement. While the Government is
endeavoring to maintain the recently achieved political stability, the
proposed credit's staggered, detailed enterprise-by-enterprise approach to PME
reform should reduce the risk of disruption in implementation. Furthermore,
the program's policy and institutional framework is already in place and
implementation of the public textile sector privatization is nearing
completion.
E. Credit Arrangements
Credit Amount,_Borrower, Implementation Agencies and Conditionality.
104.     The proposed credit of US$120 million equivalent would finance
general imports other than those specified in a short list of ineligible items
and technical assistance. The proposed credit would be made to the Government
of Sri Lanka. The main implementation agencies would be the Finance and
Industries Hinistries and PIMB. The PPF 581-CE would be refinanced under the
credit. In addition to technical assistance, in an amount equivalent to about
US$5 million, disbursements would be in two equal tranches of US$57,5 million,
released as explained below.
Conditions of Second Tranche Disbursement.
105.     A primary objective of the credit is to support commercialization and
divestiture of all of the enterprises currently under the M0I, although
divestiture of the Salt and Paper Corporations will take longer because of
unresolved strategic issues. In order to avoid enterprise-specific conditions
which might compromise the Government's bargaining position with potential
purchasers and to recognize that difficulties may reasonably arise concerning
the divestiture of some companies, the second tranche conditions will require
divestiture of a significant proportion of the PME's assets. Specifically, the
following policies and actions would be required for release of the second
tranche, expected by November 1991,
(i)   Divestiture of at least 40Z of the Treasury's shares in
public companies whose assets value, in aggregate, would
correspond to at least half of the total assets value of



-38-
MOI's mining and mineral enterprises (excluding that of the
Salt Corporation);
(ii)   Divestiture of at least 60? of the Treasury's shares in
public companies whose assets value, in aggregate, would
correspond to at least half of the total assets value of
MOI's non-mining and non-mineral enterprises (excluding that
of the Paper Corporation);
(iii)   Satisfactory progress in the conversion of all MOI's
enterprises into public companies;
(iv)   Submission of a Bill to Parliament to enact an Industrial
Promotion Act;
(v)   Submission of a Bill to Parliament to enact a Mining and
Mineral Development Act;
(vi)   Adoption by the Government of a strategy to restructure and privatize
existing salt extracting and processing operations;
(vii)   Adoption by the Government of a strategy to streamline the
pulp and paper operations of the National Paper Corporation;
and
(viii)   Adoption by the Government of a strategy to restructure and
modernize the cement industry.
Technical Assistance.
106.     Technical assistance in an amount of about US$5 million equivalent
will be provided out of the credit proceeds to finance technical services to
PIMB, the Industries Ministry and specific PMEs. It will extend the
assistance provided thus far under the PPF-581-CE to identify restructuring
scenarios for the salt, paper and cement industries; establish the legislative
framework enabling the restructuring of the mining and mineral subsector; and
strengthen PIMB's institutional development. Further services will therefore
assist in the formulation of a strategy to restructure and modernize the
cement industry; the finalization of the Mining and Mineral Development Act;
the establishment of the new Bureau of Mines in the Industries Ministry; the
assessment of existing mineral deposits; the preparation of PMEs for
privatization; and PIMB and MOI strengthening. A special account will be
opened by the External Resources Department in a commercial bank through the
Central Bank in U.S. dollars, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to
handle disbursement for such technical services. The authorized allocation,
upon credit effectiveness, will be US$100,000.
Procurement.
107.     The portion of the proposed credit to be administered by the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka would finance imports of all goods except for those in a
list of excluded goods ('negative list'), such as military or para-military



-39-
items, luxury goods, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, nuclear reactors and parts,
and uranium. Imports financed by other sources or valued at under US$50,000
would not be eligible for IDA financing. Contracts for the procurement of
goods (and services) estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5.0 million or
more each would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts for the procurement of goods
estimated to cost less than US$5.0 million equivalent shall be awarded (i) for
public procurement, on the basis of the standard procedures of the purchasing
agencies, which are acceptable to IDA, and (ii) for other purchasers, in
accordance with standard commercial practice--but whenever feasible,
quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two countries should be
obtained. Subject to IDA's prior approval, certain commonly traded
commodities may be purchased through price quotations available from organized
international commodity markets following procedures acceptable to IDA. The
minimum requirements for supporting documents to be submitted to IDA with
withdrawal applications and replenishment requests under Special Accounts are:
(i) purchase order or contract; (ii) invoice; (iii) evidence of receipt of
goods and services; and (iv) payment authorization. Consultants and experts
to be financed under the Credit would be selected and hired in accordance with
IDA's guidelines.
108.     Retroactive financing of up to US$16 million equivalent would be
provided to cover eligible expenditures made up to four months prior to the
signing of the proposed Credit. The domestic currency equivalent of the
Credit disbursements would be deposited into the Treasury account in the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka. The Central Bank would administer the Credit's
proceeds and be responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant
documentation from the commercial banks and submission of withdrawal
applications and supporting documentation to IDA. For expenditures against
contracts or purchase orders of less than US$0.2 million equivalent,
statements of expenditure would be used. Related documentation, including
invoices, would be retained by the Central Bank for periodic review by the
Association. Full documentation would be required for all other expenditures
above the US$0.2 million limit. The Credit Closing Date is November 1994.
109.     To expedite disbursement, the Government will open a Special Account
in a commercial bank through the Central Bank in U.S dollars on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon effectiveness, IDA would make an initial
deposit into the IDA Special Account of US$10.0 million. The Special Account
and the statements of expenditure would be audited every six months by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report would include a
statement verifying the amount disbursed against statements of expenditures
were used for the purpose they were intended for. The auditor's report should
include an opinion on whether satisfactory procedures were in operation at the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka regarding the operation of the Special Account and
utilization of the Statement of Expenditure procedure.



-40-
V.  RECOMMENDATION
110.     I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 2, 1990



-41-                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
Table 1; SRi LANKA - KEY INDICATORS. 1986-93
Actuats cl                         Projected dl
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Real Growth Rates:
GDP Growth Rate                    4.3    1.5    2.7    2.3    4.8   4.5    5.0    5.5
GDY Growth Rate                   -0.6    1.8    1.4   0.1    6.0    5.9    6.6    6.7
Real Per Capita Growth Rates
Total GDP                          2.7    0.0   1.1    0.8    3.3    3.0    3.5    4.0
Total consumption                  0.4  -0.8  -1.9  -0.9    4.2    2.0   4.3    4.4
Debt & Debt Service (in US$ mn.)
Total DOD a/ (in US$ mn.)       3532.0 4182.0 4259.0 4540.0 4906.0 5362.0 5738.0 6010.0
DOD/GDP                           54.2   61.5   60.7   64.7   77.4   81.3   82.3   80.7
Debt ServicelXGS                  26.0   28.6   29.9  24.1   19.6   20.3   19.7   16.7
Debt SetvicelGDP                   6.4    7.4    8.0    6.7    5.7    6.0    5.9   5.1
Interest Burden
As °h of XGS                      10.0   9.4   11.0    9.9   9.1    8.5    8.0    7.5
As % of GDP                        2.6    2.5    2.9    2.8    2.6    2.5    2.4    2.3
Gross Investment/GDP                23.7   23.3   23.2   21.7   21.8   22.3   22.4   22.6
Resource Gap/GDP                   -11.4  -10.3  -10.8  -9.7   -9.7   -8.2  -7.2   -6.3
Gross National Savlngs/GDP          14.2   15.5   14.5   13.9   13.7   15.4   16.5   17.5
Marginal Natlonal Savings Rate     23.1   26.0    7.5  -8.9   14.7   27.5   23.1   24.6
Public Investment/GDP               14.1   12.4   11.8   9.3    8.9    9.0    9.0    9.0
Public SavingWGODP                  2.6    1.3  -1.4  -0.7  -1.7    0.1    0.8    1.1
Private Investment/GDP              9.5   10.9   11.4   12.4   12.9   13.3   17.4   13.6
Natlonal Private SavIngs/GDP        11.6   14.2   16.0   14.6   15.7   16.0  16.1   16.6
ICORs bl                            6.7    9.9   10.2   9.2    9.9   10.2   7.2    6.0
Government revenuesGODP             21.5   21.4   18.8   21.8   20.3   19.3   20.0   20.0
Government expendituresIGOP         33.0   32.5   34.3   32.8   31.2   28.6   28.4   28.1
Defici (-) or Surplus (+YGDP       -11.4  -11.1  -15.6  -11.0  -10.9  -9.3   -8.4  -8.1
CPI (1980=100)                     190.4  205.1  233.8  260.8  315.4  345.5  367.9  389.2
Impllct GDP Deflator (% change)    6.0    7.9   10.4   9.5   19.8   11.5   7.5    5.9
Export Growth Rate (US$ nominal)   -8.1   15.2   5.6    5.2   18.7   12.4   10.0   12.5
ExportsJGDP                         18.9   20.8   21.0  22.1   22.1   23.3   24.2   24.1
Import Growth Rate (US$ nominal)   -3.3    5.2   8.1    0.1   17.3   6.9    7.6   10.0
Imports/GDP                        30.8   30.9   32.0   32.0   33.4   32.9   32.2   32.3
Terms of Trade Index               104.5  108.1   98.3   92.5   92.6   93.1   96.7   99.9
Current Account (million US$)      -607   -523  -611   -546   -638   -597   -556   -528
(before offkcial capital grants)
Current AccountUGDP                -9.5   -7.8  -8.7   -7.8  -8.1   -7.0   -5.9  -5.1
Gross ONflcial reserves (In
months of Imports)                 2.1    1.5    1.4   1.5    1.5    1.7    1.9    2.3
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka and Bank Staff Estimates.
a/ l4 edium and Long Term debt outstanding and disbursed.
bl I ve-year average, one-year lag.
cl June 1990 estimate.
d/ Indicators for 1990 and beyond are based on the most recent government projectlons
which take Into account the better than expected results from the adjustment program.



-42-                                         ANNEX I
PaOge2of 2
Told.  Sl LANKA - BAMO    .OF PAYPdSNof
(In oufrfnt Us$ milo)
Actual 11                              Poeto
1980   1984   1985  i1s8   1987 _188  1989 1990 1091 1092  1096
ExporteoGoods&NFS                         1297   1741   1t60   1520  1722  1800  1891 2220 2494 2732   078
MercfhfOB)                              1005   1492   1819   1209  1398  1471  1548 1838 2006 2273  2855
Mon-Factor StrvIe                        232    279    244    311   329   336   343  382  418  459   519
hnportofGoods&NFS                        2205   2140   2200   2278  2398  2664  2572 2967 3183 3411  3731
erchandIse (CIF)                        2051   1628   2038   1970  2073  2241  2243 2032 2814 328  3331
Non-Factor ServIces                      154    212    262    303   325   328   329  35   38  363   400
Reourcealnc                               -      -9    -730   -753  -07   -75   -061 -767 -6   -0    -5
Net Factor Income                         -26   -134   -127   -138  -160  -172  -165 -192 -197 -209  -232
(lntsru PaYme                             95    1B0    15s    159   174   165   223  242  262  281   319
NetCurrt Transr                            136    277    207    284   313   319   300  311  299  329   331
(Wadte P ances)                          152    301    292    324   350   357   338  351  340  370   373
Cuwr AOC Ba Before  . Traef.              -798   -2     -0   -7  -6    -011  -6 -038 -97 -6    -528
Not OMllW Transm                         138    203    175    180   180   207   187  155  203  210   217
Cun UtC Bat Aler Off. Transd.             -806    -63   -415   -427  -343  -404  -3   -483 -394 -3    -311
LongTerm Capd InMw                        220    3B8    283    341   215   240   187  420  386  329  3S8
Dohevet  _mt                              46      33     25    29    58    43    17   22   30   41    57
Nt LT Loans                              235    328    276    315   168   203   170  398  336  288   300
OthsrLT bhifm(NQ 2I                      45        5    -18     -3   -11      0
Todal Ohsrltm (ns                         214    -10      21      I6    47    64    87   74   23   iS    12
Not hortTennCM C_P                       149    -3       -4    -26    37    14   107   37   23   15    12
Capilal F k N.El.                          0       0      0      0      0     0   -20   38    0    0       0
Errs and Onsuone                          so     40      25     41    10    Go      0    0    0    0       0
ClianeIn NetReawneSI                       220   -30     111      71    81    94    80  -12    7    2   -68
NotCredit F'oTheIOAF                      -4      9    -38      -0   -10  120    27   17  -5  -73   -25
OlherfleveeChsets                        224   -312    147      80   171  -2       S9-29  91  75          33
Psecrc Balanc                           -22    -6.7  -12.0  -11.5 -10.0  -10.8  -0.7 -0.7  -8.2  -7.2  -0.3
't' AIPaslit                             0.8    1.8    1.9    2.0   2.5   2.9   2.9  2.0  2.5  2A    2.3
Cutrmd Accound Balan                    -19.7   -3.3   -9.7   -9.5  -7.8  -8.7  -7.8  -8.1  -7.0  -6.9  -6.1
Long-Tem Capl Inlows                      5.0    6.1    4.7    5.3   3.2   3.5   2.7  5.3  4.3  3.5   3.
Memorandem bm
Resee Enc. God (a. USS                    246    511    451    353   279   222        -    -    -    -      -
Rease    Inst. Ge (adt. US                283    530    472    377   310   260   287  324  389  468  640
GrossReserwe In MoeoflM t                  1.A    3.4    2.5    2.1   1.5   1.4   1.5  1.6  1.7  1.9   2.3
Ofc  Excne Rae LC U8S)                   10.53  26.44  27.16  20.02 29.45 31.81  36.04    -    -    -       -
Exhange Res used for GDP Cnverm          16.53  25.44  27.16  28.02 29.45 31.81  38.04    -    -    -       -
Inex Real ER.. Ehne Raes Base1980       100.00  124.95  116.72  103.88 92.98 90.90 91.55    -    -    -     -
GDP(mlmmllof cuelnUs*                    4024    6005  6078   6368  0705  7010  7014 7881 83 9416 10321
1 Asumes that the Midd Eat odslwIll nt pong beod 1891
It June logeoldat
2U Ye asO19-1682 I1nclue financn gape
31 '-0 ket an_ km a  Inn s



-43-                                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
Tdb t THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONI SRi LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30,1980)
Amount In USS milion
(less anelatlons)
Loan or         Fiscal                                                                     Undhl-
Credit No.       Year      8Orrower                  Purpose                  ank      IDA bursed
10 loans and 32 oredits have been fully disbursed                            107.1   440.7
Cr.  1079-SRI   19S1       8il Lanka     Second Rural Development                     33.5   5.1
Cr.  11e0-SRI   1981       Sri Lanka     Vilage Irrigaton Rehab                       27.1   7.0
Cr.  116-SRI   1981        Sr Lanka      Mahaweli anga Dev III                       90.0  31.1
Cr.  1317-SRI   1982       Sri Lanka     Forestry I                                    9.0   6.2
;r.  1537-8Ri   1985      8ri Lanka      Major Irriaon Rehab                         17.0  10.4
Ln. 2517-SRI   1985        8ri Lanka     Second Roads                         24.0           0.1
Ln. 2676-Ri   1986         Sr Lanka      Dairy II                              0.0           0.0
Cr.  1562-SRI   1985       Sri Lanka     Fourth Tree Crops                            55.0  27.5
Cr.  16092-SRI   198       Sri Lanka     Indusial Devil                               20.0   3.3
Cr.  1697-SRI   1986       Sri Lanka     Municipa Management                          13.0   6.6
Cr.  198-SRi   198e        Sri Lanka     Second Vocatioa Training                     15.0  12.2
Cr.  1700-SRI   1986       Sri Lanka     Water Supply and Sanitaon                    37.0  33.4
Cr.  1736-RI   1987        Srii Lanka    Ninth Power                                  52.0  42.9
Cr.  1776-SFRI   1987      Sri Lanka     Agriculture Resah                            18.6  17.9
Cr.  law-SRI   1987        SrI Lanka     Third 8mai & Med Industries                  20.0  10.7
Cr.  1883-SRI   1988       Si Lanka      Emergency Recon & Rehab                      78.0  49.3
Cr.  1903-SRI   1980       Sri Lanka     Health & Family Planning                     17.5  16.9
Cr.  1909-SRi   1989       Sri Lanka     2nd Smaiiholder Rubber Rehab                 23.5  20.6
Cr.  1933-SRI   1989       Sri Lanka     Power Distib & Transfflision                 40.6  36.7
Cr.  1948-SRI   1900       8ri Lanka     Third IndustrIal Development                 43.8  33.6
Cr. 2043-SRI   1989        &i1 Lanka     Forestry II                                  19.9  20.6
Cr. 2072-SRI   1990        Sri Lanka     Gneral Education a>                          49.0  61.0
Cr. 212-SRi     19900      Sd Lanka      Economic Restruc. Credit                     90.0  62.3
Total                                                       131.1  1210.1  604.2
Of which has been repaid                                    70.4    11.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               60.8  1198.7
Amount sodd          3.6
Of which repaid     3.6
Tota undlehursed                                              0.1   504.1  504.2
a> Not yet effective.



- 44 -                           ANNOX Il
Page 2 of 3
Table 3n THE STATUS OF BANK OFtUP OPERAllONS IN SRi LAKA
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30.1990)
Fiscal
Year            Obilgor              Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1970    Pearl Textile Mills    Textile and Fibers       2.5      0.75     3.25
1978    Development Finance    Development Finance        -      0.50     0.50
1980    Corporation of Ceylon
1983
1978    Bank of Ceylon         Development Finance     7.00        -      7.00
1981
1979    Ceylon Synthetic       Textile and Fibers      3.14      0.53     3.67
1981    Textile
1979    Mlkechrla Industries   Woven Polypropylene     0.89      0.95     1.84
Umited and Ceylon      Bags
Paper Sacks Ltd
1980184,  Lanka Orient Leasing  Capital Market           3.00     0.33     0.33
1985    Company Ltd
1981    Lanka Hotels           Tourism                19.30      0.70    20.00
1988    UAL                    Money and Capital          -      0.48     0.48
Market
Total Gross CommHments                        35.83     4.24    40.07
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                           32.01     265    34.66
Total Commitments now heid by IFC              3.82     1.59      5.41
Total Undisbursed
(including participant's portion)                 -        -        -



-45 -                                ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Table 4: SRI LANKA: EXTERNAL FINANCING REQOUIREMENTS. 1990-91
(In millions of US$)
1           . .... ....1991
Projectlons
Current account deficit excluding officlal transfers           638         597
Amortization                                                   198         215
Change In gross reserves (decline-)                             29          61
IMF repurchases                                                 42          85
Less Direct Investment                                       22           30
Total fnancing requirement
Total financing avallability
Private capital flows 1/                                    115           67
Disbursement from donors                                    668          823
From existing commitments                                  538         515
Grants                                                    128         121
Offcial loans                                             410         394
From expected new commitments 2/                           131         308
Grants                                                     28          83
Officlal loans                                            103         225
Disbursements from nonconcesslonal sources 31                  103          37
IMF: SAF                                                        59          --
Other monetary movements (net), Including
Central Bank short-term positions                             -59          __
Sources: IMF and Wold Bank staff estimates based on data provided by the
------- Sr Lankan authortes.
11 Includes public enterprises and net short-term flows.
2/ Includes adjustment lending that has been Infilated (IDA Public
Enterprlse Restructuring Credit, ADS Financial Sctor & Agrculture
AdJustment Credits) and bilateral cofinancing of adjustment lending.
3/ Including mixed project lending and financing of wheat Imports
guaranteed by an export-import bank.



-48-                                             ANE  l
Page 1 of 4
SRI LANKA - PUBLIC MANUFACTUR1N6 ENTEFP E ADWUSTUENT ClED1T
Table - VALUE OF IODUT    MPROWC VALUE ADDED. WPORFM AND MPLOYVUBI BY SUSCTOP AND  WMt PMMES 1S77-1
(Re  1mon at curent ftaotr prcse)
Total liduatrial Production  IPMEs                                   Export        Expot         Emplobmnt
Output Vaue     Value Added   1988 Vaue  Output Value  PP'1W Output as
Cateoy                                            Added as                  Sb Subeetbo  1987 - USS M   138 - USS U1    198
1987    1988 1187   1 1988 1scfouput  1087  1|88 1087   1988 iS           eubeot PMte Subtsecti PM  PP.15
Food. beruge and tobo          1299   1M   7.194  8.228           60    12lt  1.342    9.9    9.1   28.2 __           2.            10.698
TextIe, woring appad and       18,428   18,1S8  4A40   4,797      28.4  1.244  1.770    8.1    9.7  450.7   21  462.9   2.2          9.62
leather products
of which Textils orpatIon                                               1.138  1.48    7.4    9.1            1.8           2.2      8.400
Vod and wood producte            677      640    408    483       72.3   S00    190   44.3   29.7                                    6.601
ncdtng turnture)
Ppr and pae products            1.372   1.492    692    781       80.3   680    648   42.3   43.3                                    4.010
Clieicb. petroeum, cal.       t3A77   1.681  3.371   .827        28.0  11.382  10.228   84.2   74.8  118.6  88.3  118.8  14.7       8A29
rubber and pbstb products
of whtch Petrleum Corp                                                 10.958  9.743   81.3   71.2          87.0          12.       6.019
Non-metlI neal products         21      2.267  1.104  1.308       67.7  1.727  126   81.8   80.         120   9.4  165.6  17.0      10.29
(except petrdeurn nd coo
of which Cement CorporatIon                                             1.286  1.278   68.3    6.2                                  3.39
Bsio neta products               3       487      49     71       14.0   307   417  180.0  100.0                                     1.00
Faleated met products.          ZOOS   2.47?  1.204  1,818        01.3    48      s1    2.2    2.1   1ae             1.o               0o
macbhiery and traneport
Manulacotd ptoducw nea.          166      178     82     90       80.6    -              0.0    0.0    8.7           1Ze
Total                          48,40  84,063  18.613 21,080       a8.9  16.886  16e80   34.7   80.8  740.8  .99.   70.0  839        8O.8o
total (ail food, bev & tob)    38as.   89386  11.31   1as26       326  18.6SS  1A197   43.7   98.0  714.   996   76e2               40.200
OP                            177,731  206510                                         Total Exr        1892         1478
Total (sl food, bev & tfb)                                                            Vd Ext 6
as 08 of MoP                                     6 s     .3      _                   Total Expo       532           S3.9
*ex* udtng Peranthen wind was dcoed In 1986 due to disturbancs                PlEs Expo    Indut  Eot   13-8 5              4.3
and ertSger wte was cosed In 1066 due to uneconomica
operatn. The fertilf plant t now undet iqukdation In                          PMEe Exports 0 Totl ExpEn r.2                 2.3
onutIon wIm PERP.
PMIEs Emplyee as   of Indus Employnt                    8.0
PlEst Emp6oys s 08% of Total Employment                 1.0
Sour: Taue 22. Rebw of tio Econy. 1i8. C7enrl Bank of Ceylon
Tabb 20 or tvaue of td prod
Table 3.9 for expoft (aoert PR to US*--S 11 PIMEs
Ta be 7t for export (convert Re to U9S*-Subsetcr dsta



-47-                                      R
Pg.2014
SRI LANKA - PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTR      ISES AUMENT CFIIT
TaleS - GROWrH OF ngDUS QR TPL O    U TPUOR AND TM:
(Re. Mlmon at constat 1977 factor pries)
Sub-eotorsutPMs                                              GrWth RPAe
.  Comp. Rate pA.
Catgory                  188w   967    1S88           1816       1667      1SS8      1"7- t68
_ubseor  Pis
Food, bevetages nd  baco               0.331   e,e24   6,786         363        666       610         10.8   -10.1
Tetl. wei  appar and                   0.310   7.084   8.3369        3            8       612         25.3      8.0
lete products
of wAhi: Textile Corporatlo                                          37        60        768                   9.0
Wood and wood products                   330     34      284          109       103        87          7.      -.0
(Including hfrntme)
Par nd paper products                   073      701                 267       2g8        206          6.8      4.0
Chencals, perolum, coal.              56.78   0.$87   6.2a0         4.626      .801      408           8.0      1.0
ue and plasti products
of which: Peroeum Corporaton                                       4.429      SOB8    4472                     1.7
N    _elc minera products              1.072   1.102   1.041         823        902       636          6.8    39
(ecp peoeum an coa
of which: Cement Corpoon                                             491       642       6"4                   62
Bad mal produce                          147     167     224          t47       167       224          4.6    -I.4
Fabdlated meld producsh,                917    1.026   1,137          28         23        23          6.6    -8.6
machiney and transport
Mnuared produtse.s.                       71      79      82                        -    _
Tetal Maa                             21.638  24.804  24.816       S074        6.628     7,602        12.2      1.2
Mnfatung. excldlng food             15.307  18. 180  18,079         0.361      7.68     0,s           13.0



-48-                                                              ANnOxM
Page 3o4 
OM LANKA - PtU1LtC  WUA  ACTURI   ENTERPRIES AJWUSTMENT CREOr1
Tdb 7 - PRFE OF Pt33 MAXWUACrTLD  EJ4                  t 8         CTEDFC3REStRUCTURI
_   _    tt 408.11 e _1b8y                          -l                          O* -             -Is .sooan
80. OrInt   VxhA kth EAddd                                              Alns  NWt  turn on   ntta          Ttoorxy
Pt1k          OJA   Q       Out A(cotrdi    mont   31porW        Outpt Tgx  WotM  C4apIs
PUtaE tm             A_o              Ft  Do tx  *Omn WrldPv WrtPr EPC  DMO  198   18  198   18   ¶988 1987 1e ar   1                    1T ION    1987  1988
Nalt Toafl Cop       Cowa  Adjon                                                                                                                  451   3Su
'-PUOd6UUa          T48tb Poduet    Yes  x  a         63   1e4    34  1 0   123   284    -    -   562   31   t99             It   108   143       0    *s
- _aI1op mab        Tat Ptoduct   YV    x  x a           -        _      _   -         50    24   17   174  -14    70    -10    28    48           0    22
-VytvodxUMR          TetetlProdu     Yqe  v  x  S 2   103    25  It3   II?    1959   29   48   465  -45   -29    -61   207   230                   3      0
-Thtm"alm            Tsl04Ptodi.1    Yea  x  a        88   140    21  1.7   t tO   3038i    -    -   448   30   288           t2    14    41        0     0
Co  mhxw        ,   Exalrtt mktarl    No       a      84   Is?    Be  097   023    462  14o  343    66  290   390    1T    47   -
8SWNmi & bMha           o    tambtt*q    NMA    x     94   t2t      t  0.834 099   209  131  IsT          94   12    90        4    29    -
Ot_iop.4et COp    Pthoh         v   VA    x           _      _     _    _ 
CW$an Cosmlo Cop   Bhkka 1 TV"        Yo              e8s    21    53  1 63  2.43   430       -     _   308   Is   352        I8   481    5t   128   140
crodwy                x          49    to    35  2.32     25
a_ywao                           S7T   1s    25  207  230
RaWw Aiatu1b          sane
Raaflog                   a
eslLs.SaCp.   DOktUbno                Ye f             _     _ -  -       -      -   180t                 s o 50   10    el   21      0    -
ean
CaIon Laail ato-   Tatuy              Yo  x  x        4e    II    34 171    1 39   1259    7   tO   122   -7    s9            -6    32   -        0.1    01
duct Corp.          Sha ofty         Yes  x  a       87    10    25  409 °   o
Leatlegodb    yVs  a  a          39      2    17  3-38   9.01
OCAyIea ia   rwar bitsW               Yo*  a          71      -    Go    -       - _s_        -    -    81  -12    s0    -14    90   -             13   1I
Cup.                C ktuntw      yes  a x              _      _      _    
Umomo(boodm&a Yea  x              -    to      -  1.Xs   0.90
trLutTupcoip.  T1   PraoAa            No   x          49    ss    24  3MO   829    198    20   27   427   14   220            13    15    s8
Ceyn P     _'  cap.  SW       t       VoU    x        4t      4    t8  4.30 <0       2357    -    -    02  -54    60   -182  t13    i3                  t1
i   Saa PW*      Yeena           72    20    S5  2185 1S
T4e c .o aAdo"                    -   -        -    -   -
Iot a  I4wrCop.   VahwmSpetg  No   a                  51    44    e 29  zo  0o        S64           -   s        3   123       1            28   8S4   873
Et   asP   r    No   a           48    44    21  170  21.90
Pt0086C _efiamNat   tweuI  _umi       No   a           _     _            . -    -                  _                 6 2                  -
Cerp                 sod a dctct
Como* Cau p          C.nw ntom bt.- Ya  a              -      _                       s38               1273   99             20   GM6   es0  1.1t4  1.376
14 P4MEte                                                                           W.       87 e       3.399  278  2.o13          1 21t 8]  0   98  1079
T ItsP59                                                                                    35_t_ __  30.197  as7  60 0  4.872  3s  2.013  2 07  1.490  2.151  2.455



-49-
Page4 of4
S  LAMA     - PU8.C MANUFACTURING ENTERSES ADJUSTMENT CREIT
Tbl@ 8 - PUIJO SECTOR  OUSTRIES SORROW GS.49
(PA.                     8                 .o)
Nun. of Co,por.tIontGOU____    TFtEASURY                                               DMAt     ___
Adv.Co     Otr Govwt   TotW        Lon Tom   Sht TOm    O_i          TOW         CombIned
Aooount     Oa"                    Logn,       LOa"                              Total
Nawl Texidb Corporaton                       2       -           3280      -        _          __                         32.0
-Putoda MM                                   is      -            1t.0        S8.1     -           _           38&          61.1
ettegem Mi)                                  22      -            26.0         18.6    -                        1e.8        40.8
-Vyngoda MM                                                       -                      217.0     _          217.0        217.0
-ThunthyaM                               -                                    31.1      -                      31.1         31.1
Sd LankTy    opon                        -           -                         14.3    -             7.6       21.9        2V.9
Oiylon Sat. Iadwo Copoton                    S3      -            13.0        37.7         10.0     -           47.6        60.
Ceylon Leaw Produt COrporatn             -           -                         1        -            12         366         36.0
Ceylon Pwood Cororo                           6      -             5.0      _                                                  0
{NationalPaperCoa                        -              873.0    873.0                 _                                    73.0
Ceylon Crmcs Corpora                        126          12.5   140.5         30.6      -            2.6        39.4       1?"9
6,iLan  CementCopoaion                     1400         170.0   1870.0       41.3       -           26.6      476.9       2046
LankaTie Ltd.                            -           -            -           37.7         7.1      -          44.8         44.8
Dankctua  Ptoolen Ltd.                   -           -            -         -              9.3       7.7        17.0        17.0
Lae Porelain Ltd.                       -           -            -         -              6.O     -            6.0          6L0
S" L        Se Cp                        -           -            -          136       _            1729      309.6        308.6
8.0.0. Lwnk Ltd.                         -           -            -         -             7.zo      21L7       197.7       197.7
Coombo Oo elale (eass) Ltd.              -           -            -            7.4         6.        0.8        13.2        13.2
FI Lanka TWOboco InUtuI-                       -           -           -          -                 27.6       27.0         27.0
Corprto
Feutte Corportn                          -           -            -         -                       ' 101.7   1Ot.7        101.?
CeylOn 0     Fabt CorpborO               -           -            -           46.9      1t4.2       29.0      190.t        100.1
TOTAL                      1909.0       1016.6  2864.6        674.9       639.0     420.7     1ea2         4799.7



ANNEX IV
- 50 -                         Page 1 of 7
August 13, 1990
SRI LANKA
PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
LETTER OF SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
Dear Mr. Conable,
I am writing with reference to the proposed Public Manufacturing
Enterprises Adjustment Credit (PMEAC), supporting the Government's Reform
Program for Public Manufacturing Enterprises (PMEs). In the Letter of
Development Policy, dated April 4, 1990, I described on-going economic
stabilization and recovery reforms, supported by the Economic Restructuring
Credit which the World Bank approved on May 1, 1990. Furthermore, the program
of economic reforms under the third-year Policy Framework Paper is being
prepared in consultation with the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank. We are ensuring that the country's macroeconomic policy framework
remains consistent with the objectives of the PME reform program. In this
Letter, I would like to highlight the main policy, legislative, institutional
and enterprise-specific reforms aimed at promoting efficient growth in PME
earnings, particularly in foreign exchange.
I. Background
1.    Since 1977, when the Government adopted a bold economic liberalization
program after a long period of interventionist policies, it has increasingly
focused on reducing direct intrference in the futnctioning of markets and
promoting private investment. Through successive phases of reforms over the
decade, we have liberalized trade and sea/air freight, promoted private
industries and exports, and developed financial services and infrastructure
support. While we intend to carry them further, the measures taken to-date
have already largely off-set the industrial incentive system's earlier,
inward-looking bias and resulted in new a:tivities and export earnings. But
they have failed to reduce the size of the public industrial sector
significantly or to modify the regulatory and incentive framework under which
PMEs function. This framework largely explains the stagnation of public
sector industrial production, which grew less than 12 per year in real terms
since liberalization, while private sector industries have been thriving,
registering a growth rate of over 132 per year over the decade. It has
provided very few incentives for viable PMEs to improve their efficiency,
particularly by exporting, and has enabled PMEs whose operations would not be
viable in a market-oriented environment to sustain themselves.
2.    This framework hes also contributed to maintaining a dual industrial
structure. Private investment tends to concentrate on export-oriented, labor



ANNEX IV
-S1-                           Page 2 of 7
intensive, high growth activities while PMEs are typically engaged in import
substitution, capital intensive, slow growth activities. However, we have
identified opportunities for higher growth, especially through rationalization
of domestic activities and export development, in a number of PMEs or sectors
presently monopolized by PMEs. Such opportunities, which exist in the
textiles, mining and minerals industries in particular, have not been realized
under public management. Our objectives are to develop this potential for
export-led industrial growth urgently and induce public sector industries to
generate efficient employment. The strategy to reach these objectives has
been as follows.
3.    We have been removing remaining specific tariff protection, market
privileges and fiscal support to public sector industries to increase the
competitive pressures on their operations. Concurrently, we have been
converting into companies, i.e. commercializing, and privatizing viable PME
activities under the two main industrial ministries, i.e. the Textiles and
Industries Ministries. Commercialization is intended to remove the line
ministries' regulations over the PMEs' labor, wages, input sourcing and output
pricing and enable the enterprises to function on a commercial operating mode.
Enterprises will be accountable for autonomous operations through the timely
submission of accurate performance reports.
4.    Strategic implementation is supervised by the Finance Ministry but
receives the full cooperation of the Textile and Industries Ministries. To
assist the three ministries in expeditiously carrying out the reforms, in mid-
1989 we established the Public Investment Management Board, a financial
holding company, which will ensure that the reform process and especially
privatization is implemented in a transparent, equitable, well coordinated and
sustainable manner. The Board will also assist the Finance Ministry in
managing the Treasury's investment in public sector industries.
S.    The Government has initiated regulatory, incentive-related and trade
reforms to ensure that PME commercialization and privatization take place in a
reasonably competitive environment, conducive to the public industries'
increased efficiency and competitiveness. Our program of enterprise-specific
reforms is to restructure and expand viable public sector industrial
activities actively involving private investors once major debt overhang has
been liquidated. The Government's limited human and financial resources make
it imperative to rely on private participation to implement this program. To
facilitate implementation the Government removed the 100l tax on foreign
ownership in quoted companies up to a maximum of 402 of the total share
structure. Therefore, PME reform has been and will continue to be achieved
essentially through foreign joint ventures and domestic sales of shares. Non-
viable activities will be progressively phased out by the new private owners
or managers of the public sector industries. The main reforms are indicated
below.



ANNEX IV
- 52 -                         Page 3 of 7
II. Regulatory, Incentive-Related and Trade Reforms
6.    Regulatory Reforms.  The Government has decided to free PMEs from the
line ministries's extensive regulations constraining their ability to respond
to market forces. The Government progressively amended the legal framework on
which the PME regulatory framework was based. Conversion Act No 23 of 1987
enables the conversion of public corporations and Government Undertakings into
public sector companies. Also, in late 1988, the Government repealed the
Business Acquisition Act, legislation from the 19708 which enabled
expropriation of any private concern and establishment of a Government
Undertaking if the Government considered it to be in the country's interest.
Based on these two measures, the Government has begun commercializing
potentially viable enterprises by converting PMEs into public sector
companies, under the Companies Act.
7.    However, one additional legislation is still required, i.e. an amendment
to the Gratuity Act, which we are readying for enactment. When a PME is
converted into a company, the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983 obligates
it to pay accumulated gratuities to its employees. To avoid large cash
outlays at the time of conversion of PMEs into companies, the Government has
prepared an amendment to the Gratuity Act that provides for gratuities to be
paid in the form of ten-year bonds, issued by the Central Bank and redeemable
by the workers who are under retirement age upon bond maturity or when they
leave the enterprise. The submission of a bill to Parliament to enact the
amendment is expected before the end of 1990.
8.    The framework for managing the country's mining and mineral resources is
also under reform. Our strategy is to separate the PMEs' regulatory and
monopoly functions over mining and mineral resources from their commercial
functions. We intend to lease ownership of the rights to exploit the
country's natural resources to mining and mineral companies. A special
regulatory entity, i.e. a Bureau of Mines, will be established under the
Industries Ministry, once the new Mining and Mineral Development Act is
passed, in early 1991, to administer mining leases and exploration licenses.
This new law, which will supercede the 1973 Mining and Mineral Development
Act, will enable the Government to license exploration for generic products
and/or specific sites as well as to lease exploitation rights for specific
products and deposits to domestic or foreign firms.
9.    Incentive-Related Reforms.  In December 1989 the Government announced a
strategy to promote industrial growth with special emphasis on export
incentives, development of marketing services, infrastructural support and
manpower training. The strategy also stresses equal public and private sector
access to financing, equal pricing flexibility and equal effective protection
for comparable industries whether in public or private sector. To facilitate
implementation, we have formed a high level committee to coordinate policy and
incentives across Ministries. Also, a new Industrial Promotion Act, which we
have been formulating on the basis of the Industrialization Strategy, will be
enacted in early 1991. It will permit to completely remove price regulations



ANNEX IV
- 53 -                         Page 4 of 7
on industrial products which are not monopolies before the end of 1991, thus
giving equal pricing flexibility to public and private sector companies.
10.   The industrialization strategy relies heavily on private investment,
particularly foreign direct investment, to compensate for domestic shortages
of critical factors such as capital and specialized skills, transfer of
technology and managerial expertise and access to foreign markets. Because of
the important role foreign investors can play in restructuring and expanding
existing public sector industries, in partnership with the Government, we
consolidated approval procedures in one entity, the Greater Colombo Economic
Commission (GCEC). Also, to further emphasize the investment promotion
measures already announced in the industrialization strategy, we are preparing
a comprehensive foreign investment policy outlining the new, streamlined
procedures, activities open to and incentives linked with foreign investments.
The current draft of the foreign investment policy will be finalized before
the end of 1990 to be distributed to prospective investors, through foreign
commercial and merchant banks, together with the profiles of public sector
industries. These profiles have been available since May 1990.
11.   Trade Reforms.  Concurrently with their commercialization, privatization
and modernization, PMEs will be further exposed to market forces. To increase
public and private sector industries' competitiveness, the Government has been
undertaking the review of effective protection under current nominal and
specific rates. It is preparing for the reduction of the maximum rate from
60Z to 502 and the rationalization of rates from nineteen to four tariff bands
within the new 102 to 5O2 range, in which industrial goods of comparable
manufacturing complexity are to be dutied at similar rates. While the new
tariff system will be presented in the 1991 Budget in November 1990, some
measures have already been announced. For instance, duty on industrial cotton
yarn was reduced early this year from 251 to 52 for handlooms cotton yarn. In
May 1990, the Presidential Tariff Commission recommended reducing the tariff
from 60? to 352 for leather and plywood products and to 50X for paper
products, textile materials and tyres. These tariffs will be announced in the
1991 Budget, in November 1990, as well as a further reduction of duty on
textile materials from 502 to 35? in November 1991 and from 35Z to 25Z in
November 1992,
12.   As announced in the December 1989 Industrialization Strategy, after two
years of experimenting with the new rates, the Government intends to assess
overall industrial protection with a view to further reducing the maximum
tariff as well as rates within the range.
13.   In June 1990, the Cabinet decided to remove the state monopoly on
imports of mammoties (simple agriculture implements) and directed the
Presidential Tariff Commission to assign a suitable tariff rate to such
imports, within the new range. It also decided to remove the state monopoly
on the domestic production and distribution of salt, while enforcing the
current quality standard on salt production for human consumption, as well as
on salt-based industries. Finally, in July 1990 the Cabinet decided to remove
the state monopoly and assignment of suitable tariff on caustic soda and



ANNEX IV
- 54 -                         Page 5 of 7
chlorine imports. All three decisions will be announced in the 1991 Budget in
November 1990. When the new Mineral Development Law is in effect, by mid-
1991, the exploitation rights of mining and mineral companies will be
restricted to specific sites and products.
III. Institutional Reforms
14.    The Finance Ministry is primarily responsible for the supervision of
the Government's investment in converted PMEs since, under the 1987 Conversion
Act, the Treasury holds the shares, on the Government's behalf. Therefore, it
has been working in close coordination with the Textile and Industries
Ministries to ensure the timely conversion of PMES and implementation of
associated reforms. A former Secretary of both the Textiles and Industries
Ministries has been appointed by both Finance and Industries Ministries to
coordinate the PME reform implementation. A long-term consultant to the
Industries Ministry assists him in supervising mining and mineral reforms. In
addition, the Government established PIMB in mid-1989 to assist the three
ministries in carrying out the reform program and supervising the Treasury's
share investment. The Government went through several phases of
organizational changes to strengthen PIMB and enable it to progressively take
over the major responsibilities of the reform program's implementation from
the Ministries.
15.   PIMB currently has seven directors, three from the public sector and
four from the private sector. In addition, PIMB has been building up a core
group of permanent staff hired mainly from the domestic private sector. The
skills required to implement a privatization program of the large scale as
that undertaken by the Government are still scarce in Sri Lanka, and we intend
to keep PIMB's permanent staff small because of the changing nature of the
skills required by such an institution. Therefore, we directed PIMB to
recruit long and short term consultants as well as secure sources of regular
and ad hoc services from international consulting firms with proven records of
successful assistance to countries with major privatization programs.
16.   Finally, the Treasury is fully accountable to Parliament for the public
investment in PMEs converted into public sector companies. To enable the
Treasury to account timely and accurately for the companies' performance, PIMB
has prepared detailed accounting and reporting guidelines conforming to
international standards. Such guidelines, to be followed by the companies,
will be specified in agreements that PIMB and the companies will enter into at
the time of conversion and privatization.
IV. Enterprise Reforms
17.   The Government has embarked on the commercialization, privatization and
modernization of fourteen PMEs under the jurisdiction of the two key line
ministries responsible for industry, i.e. the Textile and Industries
Ministries. These PMEs employ about 30,000 people accounting for 42 of
industrial employment and produce more than 80% of public sector industrial
output, excluding food processing, petroleum and cement industries. In



ANNEX IV
-55 -                          Page 6 of 7
addition, the Ministry of Housing and Construction has been conducting a
strategic study to rehabilitate and develop the cement industry, review
efficiency constraints on two government-owned cement enterprises and
restructure their debt, which represents about half of the PME debt to the
Treasury (Rs 1.6 billion or 0.72 of GDP).
18.   Reforms are not only specific to each enterprise but also to their
subsectoral environment. Consequently, we have been focusing on three groups
of reforms for textile, mining and mineral and other industrial enterprises.
Textile reforms are nearing completion, with the reduction of tariffs on
cotton yarn from 25Z to 10Z; and on textile materials from 602 to 5OZ.
Further, reduction in textile materials' duty to 352 in November 1991 and to
25? in November 1992 will also be announced in the 1991 Budget. Concurrently,
the National Textile Corporation's (NTC's) two largest mills, i.e. Thulhiriya
and Pugoda, accounting for about 6,000 out of NTC's 8,000 employees, were sold
to Korean and Indian private textile firms, respectively. Thulhiriya was sold
outright, while 602 of Pugoda's equity was transferred to the private
investor. We have advertised for the sale of NTC's two remaining mills, i.e.
Veyangoda and Mattegama, and expect to review tenders and negotiate the sale
of Veyangoda, the larger of the two remaining public sector textile mills, by
the third quarter of 1990. NTC's liquidation is underway. Accounts for the
past five years are being audited, and liabilities will be settled before the
end of the year, from the proceeds of the mills' sales.
19.   Mining and mineral reforms are largely under way, with the preparation
of the new Mining and Mineral Development legislation, surveys of existing
mineral deposits and PME asset valuations. Once the new legislation is in
place, which we expect by early 1991, the Industries Ministry will establish a
regulatory entity, such as a Bureau of Mines, to monitor the exploration,
mining and processing of natural resources. This entity will issue and
administer specific licenses and rights to existing PMEs, upon their
conversion into public sector companies, as well as to new specialized
companies. Except for the Ceramics Corporation, which has already been
converted into a company in January 1990, the conversion and privatization of
most mining and mineral PMEs will take place during 1991, when the new
legislative and regulatory framework is in place. The Government intends to
offer at least 402 of the shares in these PMEs to private investors.
20.    PMEs other than textile and mining and mineral PMEs will be converted
into companies and restructured, with private sector participation whenever
possible. In June 1990, the Cabinet decided to advertise for the sale of four
PMEs, the Leather, Plywoods, Tyre and Hardware Corporations. The Government
intends to offer at least 60? of the shares in these PMEs to private
investors. Also, the Industries Ministry is reviewing the economic viability
of the Paper Corporation's operations and examining options to restructure its
debt before converting the Corporation into a company. The strategy to
streamline the corporation's operations and restructure its debt will be
formulated and discussed with the Corporation's main lender, the Federal
Republic of Germany's Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau and IDA before being



ANNEX IV
- 56 -                         Page 7 of 7
implemented. Also, a strategic study will be conducted to restructure and
privatize existing salt extracting and processing operations and possibly
expand in competitive self-based activities.
Minister of Finance.



SRI LANKA - PUBLIC   1FACnRlN0    5fN1i3s  ADARfIU c rIt
Proorau of Public MHnufacturina Pnterarise Reforms
AA Le iX.lblective                                fAtions Already taken
1   2R^ It^UVERTED AND
To Increase competitive preosure on    Policy and wedium term strategy stetement for
P1IE end Induce private investors to   tndustrlalixealon announced in Deeober W89.
ploy an active role In turning around
PFE operations..                        Removel of I icen-ing of domestic Investmnt (cmi
Investment Advieory Comeitteo abol ehed) In  ato 1988.
Reetrictione on foreign eiuity and the 100l   tax on
tranefer of equity to foreignere remved In Novewber
1989.
Cospeny profile  published for *I1 1401 PMlIE  in May 1990
handed out to Internablonal bank. and developmnt
inatitutione in md-1990.
Draft coprehensive Foreign Investment Strstet by MOPF
in consultation withi Hot and the Creeter Col on onl oic
Comlesion (GCM) in old-1990.
Agreemnt between MIl and FIAS in September 1990 to uso
FlA   services to  asist the Government In finalizing the
Foreign Investeent Stratey.
Price reulations by the Fair Trading Comission removed
In M,y 1990 for 17 industrial ?roducta leaving about 28
productu (such as eterilized milk and asmp) still to be
reuleted under the Fair Trading Comleelon Act.
in early 1990, duty on cotton yarn reduced from 28! to
105 (! ion cotton yarn to handlooms) and on textil   o
Materil  from 600  to 80S.  In August 1990 the
Oovernment decided to announge further duty reductions on
textile materials In the 1991 Budget (November 1990).
I.t. e55 in November 1991 and 285 In November 1992.
Recommendation In May 1990 by the Presidential Tariff
Comlrieton to redue duty on leather and plyod products
from BOS to 8551 and to paper products from S to Ms.
Cabinet decision in June 1990 to permit entry of private
Investore Into salt production and salt-based activities,
Imposing a quallty standard on salt production for human
consunptlon.
Cabinet decision In June 1990 to liberalize the import of
simple agriculture implemnte.
Cabinet decision in July 1990 to remove the state
mcnopoly on Iwmorts of cmu&tic soda and chlorine.
To provide the legislative friatewrk    insetent of conversion of Pubilc Corporations and             Sill to ParlIament to  act new  'ining
for PME coer rcil izatlon and           Governwent Caned Businesn  Undertakings Into Public           and Mineral  Development Act.
privatization.                          Copaniee Act No.23 in 1987.                                   permitting:
Revocation in 1988 of Government Business Acquisition Act   (i)  Leasin  out of rights to exploit
enabling Government to take over any private concern               pecific confired oaiing and
through exprpriation,                                             mineral deposito; end
Dreft Amendeent to the Gratuities Act in 1989 to pay         (il) Licensing for mineral exploration
gretultiea to workers in the form of Treasury bonds upon          (proepection for teneric products
PIE conversion Into public companle,                              or specific sites).
Cabinet decision in July 1990 to send a bill to
Parliament to enact amendmeont to the Oratuities Act to      Bill to Parliament to enact Industrial
pay gratuities to workers In the form of ten-year            Promotion Act permitting compete
Treasury bonds upon converelon of public enterproies into  removal of price regulations on
pubtl companies,                                            induetrial product.
Draft now Act in June 1990 replacing the 1973 Mining end
Mineral Develcopnt Act to enable liceneing for
generic/specifIc exploration as well ws exploitation of
specific identified ittes antd eliminate discretionary
impiesen~ation.
Salt Ordinance repealed In June 1990 to enable privat.
investors to enter solt production and aslt-btaed
activities.



GM1 LAMA - RELC UWAFAMTRINO WNi   IS  ADJBTIIT CIT
Proom.. of Puibili Hanufactburina gnafrarige Rfom
and ~ ~      ~     ~     Peca dV0rm MMll ubNAlr  , h                 R
.                                      ^~~~~~~~~~~~~Atos . AIred,. Take n                 4      
It.   3rmlflOA REAR0
To  urvia  genent Intment In
converted RlEr and eagIet In FI
commrcleuliation and privatization.
A. NIIDIS1R OF PIIW=  QF)              According to Conerslon Act No.,=3 the Treagury has
woveal  repnabillty for the *      rnment'. idveet_ent In
ecenv-rt d "ft
The Secretary, HOF appointed staff to a_eum the PIE
rnormf program's aupervel-on reaponslbi I lty.
1.                                     In July 1989. the Cabinet aproved the organizatlonul
oqt-up mid mndate of the    I Ic Invedtm_nt Nanagemnt
tbord (PIM) I.e. to hold th* converted Public
lanufaturing Entepriael' sheres on behalf of the
Treaury and *eit in their reetructuring.
PDIB wo eatabllhed In September 198. PIIB a
converted Into a compny  under he Compniec Act. In
March 1990. Te Deputy Wcretary  Treamury  a apinted
ae PDIB'- new Chairen In August i990. Pur nw  oard
dir-etre were appointed In Satetber 1990: 2 from pubilc
sector; 2 from private *ector as *cl e1 a fanaglng
Director from te porivate ZWeor. RrcruItant of me
high caliber permnent tff and contracting of reular
comlItency service now undercay.
In June 19W90. draft guidellna on accounting and
reportingtandrd  or  Ee baed rn internatioalr
acatd practiceea*nd accoeuntingp ricpl em. ihege
gusidellnee, to be followd by pullic eor c_1anee
dli1 be epecif led In agemnvbetSn P114 and the
C.                         (160)       tOI recruited a long-term coneultant to coordinate HOI'-
reorom progra  for the sining and mineral eubector.
DI recruited a long-term consultant to wupervies MOIe
owerall reform program for PlEa. The coneultSnt Is also
accountable to NOP Secretary.
IIn. IlERFISE 1.
A. Ifi UOIR                OF
To comrclaiiae, privatie  nd VW     UIRMYA MILLS. Outriht wele of the  1illSe  to   orean
modernize t  four tactIle *ill.   Compny completed In June 1990. Eatenive modernization
under the  tIOT L ISiI.            of the m11l* by the Korean Compa  now underway.
Cl IATI  (MiC) * four
dietinct  m Ie and liquidate   ROM  ILLS. Iorporated Into a comp   in April 190
WC. th  aldin   Cpation.                of te    r  of the comaony       *    old to  n WIn n
Compan  In July 1990. Pirst phaee of a threyer
modernization prowra  by the Indian Comany nov underway.
Th  CabinSt in April 1990 appointed a Committe to cal I
tender for the privatiadtion and modernliation of the
VEYNOA and HAITBMA MLLS n negotisat prIvatlzation
contracte with bet biddera.
VEYDODA HILLS. Incorporated Into a compny in February
190. The CabineSt in My 1990 approved the sale of the
mIll. by open tender. Advertilement In bot  dogmtic and
international epecallled pres.
MATTGAA HILLS. The Cabinet in Mfy 1990 approved the
sale of this spinnind mill. by open tender. The
Comittee la proceed ng with the eale.



MRI iA  - i'UUC  NDFACTURtI Gi3tVPRi 40JUIT   FtEDnr
Pr"sra  Sf Publi ic taWecturing Entsrmril. Reform
Actillfis Alredy Takenk
ii   I I        Q          I                                                                        Stifctr  prores  in the
M     MSTU -nwum                                                                                =1g1-1;      reol MI  t e *natou rif
Into public compnics.
1. M1N   AM MInEAL  1M- 2            mu                                                             Divertiture of at lesIt 40S of the
Trewury'- ehare in public companie
who*e_sn= ets vtlut. tn agre grte
mintno Una mineral soctor.  public comenloo In                         theItotal assetsvatuefofeign   . minin
and miner l net rprid.rptenc)uditg
:Tplaltoblon rsshts as well asthat of the Salt Cexpooattion
(a)                                         b     teaAlTaRY DR                       T t
Te separat thel regulatory ran      Aireemnt reach  on the tbratey to retructur  the
coinercial functions in the        subeector.  The *trte   tno hbvs sevr l  Inweped ent
mining and mineral  sector,         public cecp nies In Jo nt vnbture with forletn   minitn
firal spaenlized in minera  sndt,t gaphite  ahe  ate
cxpoitebt-on right *ate   a1  leginslat or explaoatoen
mill be   etea cIth a  septrate     O which  itsTYb   the
lureau of mines to be establisthed sithin 1401
The  JLTUI  U4TrtT  sill be vete  *ithb spcific mining
rtghtf  ao sn as the geolgic al survety  of existing
min ral sand, grfaphite and phesphate  e positc  tre
coaeted- .t approperiaet minin  legislation ie pssd.
'b) I4DWIL 5*408 CORPORATIONF
To comrctlslizo  privatize and      gemenb  reached on the strategy which ie to see
modernize/expand proessing of      foreign Joint vefntures for the modernixation ofexisxt-ing
mineral sands (ruth., Ilmenite    proccmng fscltttet  and expansion to protiuce synthetic
zirenm) through foreln joint       rutile and Iron carbide.
ventures.
In aid-19081 the Cabinet approved the expansion of the
cororation's rubtI- activity with an Australian fire.
eeological surveys culd not take piec  In 1989, due to
diturbance.  Joint venture discussions now resumed for
the exploitation of the Pulmodal site.
(c)  iNiI  Me "RAI& CORPOATION
To commercialize prtvtize and
modernize graphl  and phobsate   ASmt valuation underwy.
proessing  pewration
Agreemet reached on te strae   to spin off graphite
and phosphate operations into three distinct ::pnsal
(one phoshate, two raphite)  to strmlln  and
modernize operation  through  oint ventures; wd to
undertake neo  mineral activities In green field ventures
with private firmwa
(d) CtAIICS CORPORATIM4
To coarcielize  privatize snd    Assets valuation cepleted in January 1990, folloWed by
modernize through forsein and       the conversion of the Ceramics Corporation Into a
domeatic Joint ventures.           cepany  Lanka Ceramics Ltd.
iestructuring strategy enc raea:
(I)    Liquidation of the Ceramic Cospwnyts 15 retil
outlets as repective leses ezpirel
(Ii)   Liquidateon of the 9 brick end tile factories,
(ii )  Joint ventures for the Pilliyndael and Megoebo
fnctortem; and
(iv)  Treasury's 1990 accounts to be corrected to record
Treasury's investment of Re 100 milIion In
D nkotwa" Porcelain Ltd.. as eqoity.
Concurrently, total debt by bt- Ceramlcs
Corporation to Tresury sil  e reduced by Re 100
fl lI ;on, to Re 40 milalon.
odanotuws Porcelain, a pub lic coepany jointly owned by
the Treasury and the Ge;P Ics Trust fund  asa  advertised
fotr mal by open tender in Hey 1900. The CabInet has
ppointed a committ   to select best bidder and neotiate
the term of the Jotnt venture.



- 60-
RI LWA - PUBLIC KADFACRiO   SETIRISU  ADA*1m4? G1DT
Proaram of Public 1anuifceturing Eteprarlee  Referm
Actign A       l Cread. Takef
(e) SALT CW1IATIN
To coemrclliai  and undertake      Agreemnt resched an the *trategy which encompenee            Adoptlen of * strotegy to restructure
partial diveatiture.                                                                            and privatize soft eatracting mod
(1)   Sult procemaing rights to be vested In i/OT which     proeelnq operstlono.
WIII Iee them to the throe major Salt companies
of Haebentote  El phant Pse" and Puttalams  and
(I )   All other procoesing Ifoilties i ilt teitkr bo
leoed or sold to private parties.
Th study of prospects to onport eelt end/or dvelop
viable salt-bamad chemical Induetries, Initiated In May
190. use rmpl-td In Auguot 1IM9 to upport the
forlstlon OT  a trategy to expend wlat production.
Remoal In June tttO  of th  *tato monopoly on malt
production and dletribution and  .alt-baed activities.
(f) SrTn al CMP0RATION
To liquldate.                       The plant, based on ures, Is uneconoolcal and uae cloed
In 19s6. 341 has decided to liquidate the plant. Offers
to buy equ     bet nd for tw plant's Infreetructuro
feel ftle Ye been sought.
Liquidtion of Fertilizer Corporation In consultatlon
aith remaining creditor. (ADS, Kuwait Fund ane Sndi n
Inveotore).
2.   0TNIIR  M   WPHIS t     i40X                                                                        Divestiture of at let 0dt of the
Tromaury'a -hrsa In public cempaniec
whose *aatm value, in agregate.
ould correspond to at 1    half of
the totl  amate value of HOT1*. nen-
mlinng end non-mineral entjrisea
(secluding that of the Paper
Corporation).
*d) U!ATtE  C0WORATI0N
To cmmercialize  nd prlvatize      Aemte valuation copleted and convorsion of the
throuh  Joint venture or total     corporation Into a company In January 1990.
sale.
Agreement reached on the strategy to eellI the company In
either one or three ditincet unite, i.e. tannery, shoe
factory end loather prodlucte factory. es wellI am the four
retail outlets.
Performnceo contract approved by Cabinet In 1989,
currently in plae.
Outy on leather produet reduced from VA to 8M.
Cabint  decleion In Jane 1990 to advertle for the mole
of tho Leather Corporation.
(b) lWEM CAoTI9W
To commrcialize end prlvatlze      Agreement reached on the strategy which entlits thtt the
thiroh Joint venture.              agriculture Implemnte factory be Incorporetld ae a
Company and sold and the rot of the Corporation,*
opertion- liquldated.
Asetwe valuation completed.
R"emval of state mnopoly on imports of agriculture
Implements.
CabInet decision In June 1990 to advertise for the sale
of the Hardware Corporation,
(a) TMR CM01ATUiS
To comercialize  nd partially       Auemte Valuation underay.
liquidate.
Performane contract approved by Cabinet in 1989,
currently in place.
MCI decided to atreamlin. production keeping a fee,
vtible tyro production linem.
Duty on tyro reduced from US (and more) to 801.
Cabinet deciolon in June 1990 to advertise for the see
of the Tyre Corporateon.



- dl -
SRI LA-A - PUM.1C MWACTUIND savRMx    ADAJSM    CMIT
Proeam  of Pub lic sanuf.cturino Enterrimes  foram
Actions Alredy Tilen
(d) PLW0S cs3TIII
To commrclally and                Asmta valuation cooieted. incorporation Into a company
divest/liquidate.                 undernay.
mi0 decided to s1l1 or liquidate faclltlte.
Duty on plywood reduced froe WSO to 353.
Cabliet decislon in June 1990 to advertlee for the east
of the Plywoode Corporation.
( ) PAPi31 WWRTIMl
To formsulte on operational and    Assto valuation completed.
debt retructuring *Orategy.
dDI and Treasury are reviewing debt restructuring
option.
Duty on paper products reduced from 60S (and more) to     Adoption  f a strategy to etreaul It.
an3.                                                      the pulp and paper operationa of the
Natteioa Paper Corporetien.
Review ot viability of Papor Corporation's operatons
Initiated.
(f) PARWHNT4 Odl4ICAUS
To dlvet or liquldate.            Cloed In 19bl due to ethnic dieturbancee In the north of
the irland
Assets no. ugidr the responsibility of the North Enstern
Provincial Ceuncl .
C. CES4WT DWSRY 1tfTRCP2MD
s THE wDaSI  OF lW.UPIDP
1. To restructure the debt of the  A Joint capital restructuring comittee ew  estbilhed      Adoption of a strategy to reatructure
Coment Corporation.             in 1989 cooprising representatives of the Cement          and modernite the cement Induntry.
Corporation, the Ministry of Finance and the Housing
Minletry, to Identify poeaibiltltee of restructuring the
Ceant Crporation's debt. Debt restructuring proposals
submitted to Cabinet In ay 1990.
2. To identify the strategy to    Internationel bidding to field strategic study to
restructure  nd Modernize te   modernize the Cement Industry coptlted in May 1990.
Cemnt Industry.                Contract negotiated In June 1990. Final arrange  ento to
cofinance the study by the Swiss Government and IDA
epproved in Septer 1990.



- 62 -                             ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
Conditions of Second Tranche Disbursement (Expected by November 1991)
The policies and actions envisaged for the second tranche disbursement
would compriset
(i) Divestiture of at least 402 of the Treasury's stares in public
companies whose assets value, in aggregate, wou:' correspond to at
least half of the total assets value of MOI's mining and mineral
enterprises (excluding that of the Salt corporation);
(ii) Divestiture of at least 601 of the Treasury's shares in public
companies whose assets value, in aggregate, would correspond to at
least half of the total assets value of MOI's non-mining and non-
mineral enterprises (excluding that of the Paper corporation);
(iii) Satisfactory progress in the conversion of all MOI's enterprises
into public companies;
(iv) Submission of a Bill to Parliament to enact an Industrial
Promotion Act;
(v) Submission of a Bill to Parliament to enact a Mining and Mineral
Development Act;
(vi) Adoption by the Government of a strategy to restructure and
privatize existing salt extracting and processing operations;
(vii) Adoption by the Government of a strategy to streamline the pulp
and paper operations of the National Paper Corporation; and
(viii) Adoption by the Government of a strategy to restructure and
modernize the cement industry.



IBRD 20879
SRI LANKA
.:-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    R adw ayo
, S°hocted towni and villGgei
\                                                    -^s¢>:r\~  -'-0lk boWidWltS
f)  ! -,                                               Nvnc bo\ijnd haA
I A F f N A _
iblaunatma         ---    Ma           X 
_     .   MU ,|i I T I V OLI
\Mankuhsm   
M ANNAR        RAl Nt tA  *J.C<  Yp _____________
8S_  Vc g)                                            M \ILES
a ,$       -                                       o n !> .</ ) TRINCOMALE'
8* ~    ~       ~       5           *           tS. ; //tk
t       KRUA N  G R A             MA
, 9 ~~~~AnurodtS  %/  
-ir                             UTIAI A                     \ / f                               N  
\ R j .i8/ (~wV/2\D4bult; ATTtCAtOA\
C [C     | U  U NSAl C/X IMA I A L E  :1fL 
GA    jiA~~
Ktir                   Ma/t tt   . 
,+_- ~~~~~a                     V          BADULLA        ,          AM PA RA t
am"   1   _*Ew,  s   -1.t-LtYA 5i, MON  RAGALA  I   Z                                                   tl
'KALUTARA\   .          o               ,na   )               )
PAKlSTANgJ    tE   CHINA
I N D I A \ik 5 , _, 1.i_/ 8 J a H A M B7 T O T A
INDIA 
.         1N   ~~~~G A L L E    IAAA                     )
~MA1AR A
.    -->    14*                   >       -      --\ e11* 
SRI LANA
APRIL 19



