DocumenL of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14986
2(PLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING CREDIT
(2128-CE)
AND THE
PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES ADJUSTMENTS CREDIT
(2185-CE)
SEPTEMBER 18, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Rupees (Rs.)
End Year Rates Rs./US$1.00
1990 Rs40.24
1991  Rs42.58
1992 Rs46.00
1993 Rs49.56
1994 Rs49.98
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CTB          Ceylon Transit Board
ERC          Economic Restructuring Credit
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDA          Internationial Development Association
ILO          Internationial Labor Organization
IMF          Iinternationial Monetary Fund
JTF          Janasaviva Trust Fund
OECF         Japan Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PIMB         Public Investment Management Board
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PMB          Paddy Marketing Board
PMEAC        Public Manufacturing Enterprise Adjustment Credit
SAF          IMF Structural Adjustnment Facility
VAT          Value-added tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Summary  ...........................................................1
Project Background ...........................................................3
A. Project Objectives ..........................................................3
B. Achievement of Objectives ..........................................................4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................................8
D. Project Sustainability ..........................................................8
E.  Bank Performance ..........................................................9
F.  Borrower Performance ..........................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................                                              10
H. Future Operation .........................................................                                                   10
I. Key  Lessons Learned .........................................................                                              10
STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................................................                                                      II
Table  l a:   ERC  - Summary  of Assessment ..........................................................                            11
Table  Ib:   PMEAC  - Summary  of Assessment .......................................................... 12
Table 2:          ERC  &  PMEAC  - Related Bank Credits .................................................... 13
Table 3a:   ERC  Project Timetable ..........................................................                                   14
Table 3b:   PMEAC  Project Timetable ..........................................................                                 14
Table 4a:  ERC Credit Disbursements, Cumulative Estimated & Actual .................... 15
Table 4b:  PMEAC Credit Disbursements, Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........... 15
Table 5:   ERC & PMEAC - Key Indicators for Project Implementation ................... 16
Table 6:   ERC & PMEAC - Key Indicators for Project Operation ............................ 16
Table 7a:   ERC  - Studies Included  in Project ..........................................................    17
Table 8a:   ERC  - Project Costs &  Financing ..........................................................                            18
Table 9:    ERC  &  PMEAC  - Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................ 19
Table  1 Oa: ERC  - Status of Legal Covenants                                  ....................................... 20
Table  lOb:  PMEAC  - Status of Legal Covennant ......................................................... 23
Table 11: ERC & PMEAC - Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........ 26
Table  12a: ERC  use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................... 27
Table  12b:  PMEAC  use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .                                        ........................................... 27
Table 13a: ERC - Bank Resources: Mission                                      ........................................ 28
Table  13b: PMEAC  - Bank  Resources: Mission .......................................................... 29
ANNEX 1:   Government Evaluation of the PMEAC ...................................................... 30
ANNEX  2:   Government Evaluation  of the ERC ........................................................... 40
ANNEX3:   Japan  OECF  Evaluation of the ERC ........................................................... 41
ANNEX4:   IDA  Completion Mission Aide Memoire .................................................... 50
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their                             l
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Banlc authorization.l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
for the
SRI LANKA
ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING CREDIT
(Number 2128-CE)
and the
PUBLIC MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Number 2185-CE)
Summary
1.    Background and objectives. The Economic Restructuring Credit (ERC) and the Public
Manufacturing Enterprise Adjustment Credit (PMEAC) of 1990 supported the program set forth in the
Policy Framework Papers (PFP) of 1989 and 1990. The program was supported by the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) through a Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) and by Japan, which provided co-
financing for the ERC. The ERC sought to stabilize and then expand the economy and alleviate poverty
by developing the private sector and rationalizing government expenditures. To this end, the ERC
included specific measures to reform the tax and customs system, consolidate and target the social
transfers, and reform and down-size the civil service. The PMEAC focused on the commercialization and
privatization of state-owned manufacturing enterprises.
2.    Achievement of objectives. The credits were successful on balance because the program of
privatization and liberalization they supported led to a sustained, export-led, acceleration of growth that
was associated with a decline in poverty. When the credits were prepared in 1989, Sri Lanka was
destabilized by severe civil conflicts that had slowed growth and drained reserves. Through the program
outlined in the PFP, the Government was able to stabilize the macro-economy in 1990. To assure that
recovery would continue, the Government took steps to reduce tariffs and privatize public manufacturing
enterprises, which helped spur a vigorous expansion of manufactured and especially garmnent exports.
The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments narrowed from 7.1 percent in 1989 to 6.1
percent in 1992. Real GDP growth accelerated to 4.4 percent in 1992 and reserves recovered as well.
This was not an isolated achievement as growth then accelerated to 6.9 percent in 1993 and 5.6 percent in
1994. This growth appears to have been associated with a downward trend in poverty, as documented in
the Sri Lanka Poverty Assessment.
3.    The outcome of the ERC is rated satisfactory on the strength of its contribution to the
achievement of several necessary structural reforms and to the macro-economic stabilization and recovery
of Sri Lanka. The Credit fully achieved its objective of promoting private sector development and
privatization and, in doing so, significantly rationalized employment in the state enterprises, such as the
bus company. However the achievement of several other objectives was slow or incomplete. For
example, the reform of the civil service failed because the retrenchment program did not ease the fiscal
burden but deprived the civil service of some of its most qualified senior staff members. Moreover,
special incentives for voluntary retirement doubled the pension bill; the fiscal loss was worsened when
the incentives were left in place at the close of the restructuring. The fiscal situation was further
complicated because the Pension and the Employee Provident Funds were not reformed. There was an
initial effort to reform the Food Stamp program through targeting benefits to the poor. But this trend was



2
reversed following release of the second tranche. Moreover, the recent re-establishment of the wheat and
fertilizer subsidies reversed progress on transfer policy under the ERC.
4.     The last Government did make progress in reducing the cost of the major social transfer
programs, expressed as a percentage of GDP. While it did not succeed in targeting Food Stamps there
was some progress in targeting the benefits of the Janasaviya program. The new Government has now
established a Samurdhi program that will consolidate parts the Janasaviya and Food Stamp programs and
will attempt to improve targeting, in part by setting a higher level of benefits for the poorest recipients.
5.     The outcome of the PMEAC was satisfactory because it largely achieved its objective of
reforming and privatizing public manufacturing enterprises, and because the Government has since built
upon and continued these reforms. No public manufacturing enterprise has been re-nationalized but many
additional small and medium state enterprises have been privatized. The new Government is planning
strategic alliances involving partial privatization for several large state enterprises (e.g. Telecom and Air
Lanka). However, there have been challenges to the transparency and fairness of past privatizations.
6.     Reasons for slippage. Sri Lanka probably had to achieve several structural reforms at once to
sustainably recover from the crisis of 1988-89. However the large number of structural measures
supported by the ERC probably contributed to slippage in implementation. Efforts to reduce subsidies to
state enterprises, raise tariffs, contract the civil service, and limit and target social transfers while
privatizing enterprises meant that many Sri Lankans would suffer some losses from the reform program,
at least over the short-run. Therefore the ambitious reform effort probably led to reform exhaustion and
then reversal of some reforms as the Government expended its capacity to sustain short-run costs for
medium and long-run benefits.
7.     Agreement on policy was achieved through centralized negotiations between a small group of
Bank and Government officials. The commitment of the Government was then undermined by
inadequate explanation of policy to the line ministries and to the public. Commitment might have been
stronger, and a greater part of the program might have been implemented, if the Bank and its negotiating
partners in the Government had agreed to build support for the adjustment program through a broader
effort at persuasion and consultation. The absence of such an effort made it more difficult to sustain
reforms through the electoral cycle.
8.     Lessons. The main lesson from the credits is that an adjustment effort should focus on building
broad support for the two or three most important policy measures. The PMEAC may have been more
successful than the ERC because it focused on the central goal of privatization. This points to the
importance of explaining policy issues through seminars, press conferences, and through the translation
and dissemination of economic and sector work, and then of sequencing policy measures reasonably.
9.    The failed attempt to reform the civil service provides lessons for the future. Retrenchment
should focus on specific categories of employees. The bulk of Sri Lankan civil servants are in the low-
skill job categories. Efficiency in these categories is low because of over-staffing and the slow
introduction of office technology. Moreover, many new teachers are entering the civil service with low
levels of education. With a large share of employees occupying lower level positions and absorbing the
bulk of the wage bill, there is a strong case for focusing on rationalizing staff within this cohort. A further
lesson is that, rather than attempt to retrench civil servants throughout the Administration, efforts should
be concentrated on those parts of the Administration that have lost their function and on the consolidation
of units that have over-lapping responsibilities.



3
Project Background
10.    In 1977, the Government of Sri Lanka initiated a new economic policy that sought to increase
the role of markets and the private sector by removing restrictions on pricing, investment, and external
trade and payments. However, after an initial period of intense adjustment, the reform effort slowed in
the early 1980s. Moreover, ethnic and political conflict that began in 1983 and reached its peak in 1987-
89 severely hurt economic performance. Structural constraints and the civil disturbance inhibited gains in
efficiency, and GDP growth declined to 2.9 % per year from 6 % during 1978-92. The main structural
constraint was the over-extended public sector, and in particular the size and losses of the public
enterprises. In the absence of reform of budgetary reform, the fiscal deficit exceeded 12 % of GDP
during 1985-89. In view of these results, the Government strengthened its adjustment efforts in 1989,
efforts supported by the ERC, PMEAC, and by the IMF through a SAF.
A. Project Objectives.
11.     The broad objectives of the ERC and the PMEAC were to support the program agreed between
the Government, the Bank, and the IMF and set forth in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP).' The ERC
emphasized macro-economic stabilization and poverty-reducing growth through structural measures to
rationalize government expenditures, alleviate poverty, and develop the private sector. The PMEAC
focused on the development of the private sector through measures to deregulate, commercialize, and
privatize public manufacturing enterprises.
12.    ERC obiectives. The main macro-economic objective of the ERC was to accelerate the growth of
GDP from its depressed war time level of 2.3 percent in 1989 to the historical range of 4 to 4.5% by 1992,
while lowering the current account deficit to 6 % of GDP and the inflation rate to 7%. The ERC aimed to
realize these targets by encouraging export-oriented growth of the private sector, in part by freeing
resources then claimed by the Government for use by the private sector. The main macro-economic
condition for enhancing private investment was to narrow the fiscal deficit through cuts in government
current expenditures. The decline in the fiscal deficit and the borrowing requirement would then
facilitate continued monetary discipline and a declining rate of inflation.
13.    Therefore the ERC supported a program of adjustment whose structural objectives were to:
a) reduce subsidies and rationalize revenue extraction by (i) eliminating subsidies to rice, wheat flour,
fertilizer, and to the transport boards, (ii) eliminating sugar subsidies and reducing its domestic price,
and by (iii) beginning implementation of the recommendations of the Tax Commission;
b) reform the civil service by (i) reducing the central and provincial administration staff by 40,000
persons in 1990-91 and by 80 to 90,000 over the medium-term, (ii) agreeing on and budgeting a plan
to reduce staff in non-commercial parastatals, (iii) converting the Employees Provident Fund into an
employee pension scheme, and by (iv) adopting a plan to reform the civil service pension scheme;
c) accelerate poverty alleviation by (i) restructuring the Food Stamp program and reducing the number
of beneficiaries to I million households, (ii) restructuring the Janasaviya Program and the Mid-day
Meal Program, and (iii) maintaining expenditure for 1990 and 1991 on the three programs within
agreed limits;
d) and to develop the private sector by (i) deregulating air freight operations, (ii) introducing a four-band
tariff system and reducing the maximum nominal tariff, (iii) restructuring the Paddy Marketing
The ERC supported the PFP of October 1989, when the second year SAF was approved, while the PMEAC supported the
updated PFP of October, 1990, when the third year SAF was approved.



4
Board, (iv) by reaching agreement on a plan to restructure the plantations, and by (v) partially
privatizing the Sri Lanka Central and Regional Transport Boards.
14.    PMFAC objectives. While the ERC had broad objectives, the PMEAC focused on developing
private industry. Its specific structural objectives were to:
a) reduce government protection of manufacturing by removing specific tariff protection of public
manufacturing enterprises;
b) reduce government intervention in the management of manufacturing enterprises by providing a new
institutional framework for supervising the Government's investment in public enterprises, including
those that would continue to be held by the Government.
c) and to commercialize and privatize public manufacturing enterprises by (i) developing strategies for
modernizing and divesting specific manufacturing industries, (ii) establishing a legal framework for
privatization, (iii) converting the enterprises into companies and privatizing the viable enterprises,
and by (iv) divesting at least half of the asset value of the shares in public manufacturing companies
(amounting to at least 40 percent of Treasury shares in public mining and mineral companies,
excluding the Salt Corporation, and 60 percent of Treasury shares in non-mining and non-mineral
enterprises, excluding the Paper Corporation).
15.    Assessment of ob3ectives. To sustainably recover from the crisis of 1989-90, Sri Lanka had to
achieve several objectives at about the same time. But the extensive program of structural measures in
the ERC (see the economic conditions of the Development Credit Agreement listing in Table 10a) along
with design flaws in the civil service reform undermined implementation (Sections B and E). With regard
to the PMEAC, the focus on the reform of the public enterprises may have advanced implementation.
While the objectives of the PMEAC are clear, the statement of the key condition regarding privatization
seems vague. The President's Reprt does not define how "Treasury shares" and "asset values" of public
manufacturing enterprises should be measured. Moreover, the President's Repo does not provide a
baseline table of the shares and asset values of the enterprises to be privatized --which makes it difficult to
assess achievements.
B. Achievement of Objectives.
16.   Overall success of the credits. The credits were successful on balance because the program of
privatization and liberalization they supported led to a sustained, export-led, acceleration of growth that
was associated with a decline in poverty. When the credits were prepared in 1989, Sri Lanka was
destabilized by severe civil conflicts that had slowed growth and drained reserves. The Government was
able to stabilize the macro-economy in 1990. It also took steps to reduce tariffs and privatize public
manufacturing enterprises, which helped spur a vigorous expansion of manufactured and especially
garment exports. The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments narrowed from 7.1 percent
in 1989 to 6.1 percent in 1992, approximately meeting the 6 percent target set in the PFP. Real GDP
growth accelerated to 4.4 percent in 1992, compared to the 4 percent target and reserves recovered as
well. This was not an isolated achievement as growth then accelerated to 6.9 percent in 1993 and 5.6
percent in 1994. This growth appears to have been associated with a downward trend in poverty, as
documented in the Sri Lanka Poverty Assessment.
17.    Fiscal ad'justment. However the Government was not as successful in sustainably narrowing the
fiscal deficit --a point documented in the OECF report (Annex 3). At the start of the adjustment, the
deficit narrowed significantly, falling from 11.2 percent of GDP in 1989 to 7.3 in 1992. The quality of
the adjustment was weak in that practically the entire adjustment was achieved at the expense of lower
capital expenditure. For example, by 1992, capital expenditure, adjusted for financial payments such as



S
privatization proceeds, had declined to 7.9% of GDP from 12.7% in 1988. Moreover, the Government's
efforts to contain current expenditure had limited success: it fell to 21. 1% of GDP in 1992, compared to
a target of 19.7%. Therefore, interest payments rose significantly, from 3.4% to 6.3% of GDP between
1980 and 1993, reflecting the growing public debt burden and high interest cost on domestic debt. By
1994 current expenditures had increased to 22.3% of GDP and the fiscal deficit had widened to 10%.
These reversals can be explained by slippage in carrying through structural measures of the ERC that
would have controlled current expenditures.
18.   Fiscal measures. For instance, the Government did not sustain reductions in subsidies: the
fertilizer and wheat subsidies were eliminated, but were re-introduced in September, 1994. Subsidies to
sugar producers were eliminated, but tariffs on sugar keep the domestic price far above the international
price. The Government did eliminate subsidies to the Ceylon Transit Board (CTB) but did not restructure
the Railway Department or reduce its subsidy to the Rs. 350 target for 1991 mentioned in the President's
Report. The Railway received a current subsidy of Rs 616 million in 1991 and a capital transfer of Rs
1,756 million.
19.   Tax reform. In contrast, there has been progress in reforming the tax system. The Government
and the IMF prepared a plan to implement the Tax Commission's recommendations, as agreed under the
ERC. The main measure recommended by the Commission was to replace the cascading gross turnover
tax with a value-added tax (VAT). The preparation work for the VAT has been completed and the
present Government intends introduce the VAT.
20.   Civil service and retirement fund reform. The most serious and clear failure of the ERC was the
attempted reform of the civil service, because the reform did not ease the fiscal burden but deprived the
civil service of some of its most qualified senior staff members. To launch the reform, the Government
offered a generous separation package to induce voluntary departures, with a target of 60,000 departures
over three years. Through this incentive program, the Government was able to reduce the central
government civil service by 43,000 persons during 1990-91.
21.   Despite this vigorous effort, the reform did not succeed in meeting its goals. The generous
voluntary separation package was not withdrawn at the end of the reform, but left available for all retiring
civil servants. The immediate fiscal cost of the scheme was very high, resulting in more than a doubling
of the pension bill to 2 percent of GDP in 1991. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the civil service
deteriorated as many of the high skilled personnel took higher paying jobs in the private sector. Savings
on wages and salaries were reduced as the Government replaced some departing high skill employees and
then absorbed unemployed school graduates into the civil service. By 1994 the civil service was 23,000
persons larger than in September 1990, when the first census of the civil service was taken. Moreover,
the share of civil service wages and pensions, including defense, was back up to the 1989 peak of 7.5 %.
22.   A related weakness in implementation of the ERC concerns the reform of the retirement
programs: the Provident Fund, which pays a lump sum on retirement to employees in the state-owned
enterprises and many employees in the formal private sector, and the Pension Fund, which pays monthly
pensions to civil servants. The main goal of the reform was to eliminate the incentive to choose
employment in the Government rather than in industry in order to benefit from the more generous benefits
of the civil service Pension Fund. Another goal was to eliminate the possibility that pensioners would
spend lump sum payments unwisely. To control fiscal costs, a reform would have had to increase
employee contributions, capitalize the Pension Fund, and link benefits to the return on investments.
Failure to reform the civil service Pension Fund then complicated efforts to convert the Provident Fund
into a pension fund.



6
23.   The reform of the Provident Fund was also complicated by an ILO report that recommended
partial indexation of the civil service Pension Fund, which would have reduced fiscal control over costs.
Furthermore, the unions in the state enterprises were concerned that the dominant role of the Government
in managing the converted fund would subject benefits to an increased fiscal constraint. Acting on the
recommendation of the region, the IDA Board waived the conversion condition for second tranche release
because the Parliament could not approve the conversion because it was not in session. The conversion
was never approved because of the design questions and opposition from effected unions.
24.   Social transfer reform. There was some limited success in improving the targeting and
effectiveness of the social transfers. The largest transfer programs are the Food Stamp Program, which
distributes food coupons to up to 40 percent of the population, the Mid-day Meal, which distributes food
coupons to households with school-going children, and Janasaviya, which is a two-year program of
intensive transfers accompanied by some poverty-alleviation efforts. The fiscal cost of the three large
programs was kept well below the agreed upper bound of 3 to 3.5% of GDP, falling from 2.6% of GDP in
1990 to 1.8 % in 1994; but this was achieved largely by letting inflation erode the real value of transfers
rather than by targeting to the poorest segment of the population.
25.   For instance, the Government brought the number of Food Stamp recipient households down to
1.1 million, compared to a target of I million, through a community-based screening. Given this
progress, and acting on the recommendation of the region, the Board then waived the I million household
target for second tranche disbursement. Following release of the second tranche, the Government
responded to a drought by re-admitting households that the screening identified as not qualifying for food
stamps. By late 1994 the number of households receiving food stamps stood at about 1.5 million, despite
massive departures to the Janasaviya program. The cost of the transfers to this relatively large number of
recipients meant that it was not fiscally feasible to increase benefits for the poorest households remaining
in the program.
26.   There was no progress in targeting the Mid-day Meal Program to poor families or in launching an
island-wide nutrition program focusing on pre-school children and lactating mothers. The mid-day meal
stamps are received by many middle and upper income households. The Government has not launched
the nutrition program, aside from a small program conducted as part of IDA's Poverty Alleviation Credit
(Janasaviya Trust Fund).
27.   The Government has improved the main Janasaviya Program by developing a relatively effective
method for screening entrants --as agreed under the ERC. The screening was conducted through
inspections and community meetings and focused on observable indicators such as possession of
consumer durables. The monthly transfer has also been reduced from Rs 2,500 per month to under Rs
1,500, as agreed, by treating Rs 1,042 as savings. The Government pays Rs 250 per month in 'interest'
on the cumulated 'savings' upon graduation from the Program. The Janasaviya program has however not
been given a production orientation, as agreed under the ERC. The Government and IDA did launch the
Janasaviya Trust Fund (JTF) which executes production-oriented poverty alleviation activities, under the
Poverty Alleviation Credit. But the JTF has operattd largely independently of the main Janasaviya
Program and at a smaller scale.
28.   Most recently the Government has taken further steps to improve the transfer programs through a
new Samurdhi program that would consolidate parts of the Food Stamp and Janasaviya Program. Under
the Samurdhi program the Government would attempt to target benefits and would set a higher level of
transfers for the poorest recipients.



7
29.   Import tariffs. There has been relatively better progress in reducing protection, to encourage
development of efficient export industries. Tariffs have been reformed and lowered, but at a slower pace
than anticipated in the President's Repo. One reason for the delay was to retain revenues from tariffs to
meet the target for the overall deficit. The maximum tariff was reduced from over 100 % in 1989 to 45
percent in 1994 and 35 % in the 1995 budget. The Government did not establish the four-band tariff
system in 1991, as agreed under the Credit. It did however establish a four-band tariff system in 1994 and
a three-band system in 1995 with a short list of exceptions (e.g. autos, liquors, tobacco, and agricultural
goods). Tariff rates were often not effective because of the number of duty waivers and exemptions.
About a third of all imports were covered by specific duties in 1991. In some cases, these specific duties
were equivalent to ad valorem equivalent rates of well over 100 %. Most specific duties on non-
agricultural goods have been removed. Specific duties and quantitative restrictions remain for several
important agricultural goods.
30.    Private sector development--ERC: There was much initial progress in liberalizing agriculture.
The Government restructured the Paddy Marketing Board (PMB) by substantially reducing its budget and
staff. The PMB's purchases of paddy fell to 2% of the marketed quantity. However in 1994 the wheat-
flour subsidy led to substitution away from rice. The PMB then supported the price of rice by increasing
its purchases to about 10% of the 1994 annual harvest. The Tree Crops study supported under the credit
was a positive step that contributed to the development of private management contracts for most of the
state plantations.
31.    The ERC envisaged implementation of a restructuring plan involving breakup of the Central
Transport Board (CTB) and full divestiture of the bus system by early 1991. At end-1990, the system was
broken up into 13 workshops and 96 bus companies and staffing was rationalized. Formally, half of the
equity of the bus companies was subsequently transferred to the workers, and the workshops were partly
privatized. However the Government retained ownership of the bus stations and depots which included
valuable real estate. At the time of the restructuring, 13,500 employees took voluntary retirement and
28,000 transferred to the new bus companies, significantly reducing the number of employees indirectly
dependent on the state. The National Transport Commission Act that would deregulate fares was passed
by the Parliament, but the companies have not been allowed to set fares in practice. This has made it
difficult to adequately maintain buses and has discouraged prospective buyers. Despite these difficulties,
bus service is increasingly available and the OECF report documents the improvement in the efficiency of
operation of the buses (Annex 3).
32.    Private sector development--PMEAC. The PMEAC was more successful in achieving its
objectives than the ERC. The Government has met and exceeded many targets set in the Development
Credit Agreement and continues to act in the spirit of the Agreement. Specific protection of the state
enterprises has been eliminated along with direct government intervention in setting wages and prices.
As agreed, the public manufacturing enterprises were converted to companies. Most significantly, the
textile mills have been filly divested and the Government does not intervene in management and pricing.
Recently however there have been challenges regarding the transparency of past privatizations which
could potentially slow the pace of future privatizations. More thorough planning of the methods for
valuing public enterprises and of executing sales of the enterprises in the PMEAC would have helped
avoid these difficulties.
33.    Delays in privatization led to a one-year delay in release of the second tranche until December
1992. By that time the Government had divested about 48% of its shares in public mining enterprises and
75% of its shares in non-mining enterprises. Enterprises such as Paranthan Chemical could not be



8
privatized because they were in the conflict zone. The petroleum refining activities of Ceylon Petroleum
were apparently not covered under the PMEAC, and are still publicly owned. The Government has
privatized much of the non-mining and non-mineral manufacturing firms that are not in the conflict zone.
Since the release of the second tranche, the Government has approved divestiture of most of the Ceramics
company, while Mineral Sands cannot be privatized because it is in the conflict zone.
34.    The main institutional reform contemplated in the PMEAC was the establishment of the Public
Investment Management Board (PIMB) for the purpose holding the Government's shares in state
enterprises and of supervising and commercializing the enterprises. The reform was not entirely
successful because the PMEAC did not clarify the overlapping oversight responsibilities of the line
ministries and the PIMB, which was attached to the Ministry of Finance.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project.
35.    The environment for achievement of the Credits' objectives was largely favorable: the industrial
countries were in recovery, demand for Sri Lanka's output was rising, and foreign investment in
developing countries, and in Sri Lanka, was improving. The only significant external disruption was the
brief rise in oil price and damage to tea exports that followed from the Iraq war. The drought of 1992 was
another transitory shock that briefly slowed growth. The success of the credits was complicated by the
conitinued civil conflict in the North, which consumed valuable human and physical resources. The
unrest was punctuated by acts of violence such as the assassination of President Premadasa in May 1993.
In spite of these difficulties, it seems on balance that implementation of the Credits was not significantly
slowed by factors outside the control of the Government or the Bank.
D. Project Sustainability
36.    The commitment to policy reform of the recently elected Government and continued progress in
reform suggest that several of the achievements of the credits could be sustained. For instance, there has
been continued progress in structural areas such as tariff reform and replacement of the turnover tax with
a VAT. There has also been progress toward privatization of state enterprises. No public manufacturing
enterprise has been re-nationalized but many additional small and medium state enterprises have been
privatized. However, after a slow start, the current Government is planning further divestiture of state-
owned enterprises through strategic alliances involving partial privatization of large state enterprises such
as Sri Lanka Telecom and Air Lanka. The Government has leased most of the state plantations to private
operators, but there has been little progress in increasing the term of the leases beyond 5 years to provide
an incentive to plant. Moreover, the Government has continued to intervene, for instance, by increasing
the wages of plantation workers. Private confidence has also been influenced by hesitation in tackling
labor difficulties in manufacturing.
37.    Fiscal problems, however, may be severe enough to compromise future growth by crowding out
private investment. The establishment of new government programs (e.g. the wheat and fertilizer
subsidies) in 1994 and 1995, and the consequent increases in government current expenditure and the
budget deficit are leaving a legacy of higher domestic debt, whose service will complicate control of
current expenditures. Unfortunately, the prospects for reforming the civil service or even sustaining its
current size and cost appear poor as the Government continues to hire civil servants who may not be
effective, such as teachers. The renewal of the civil conflict may also worsen fiscal performance.



9
E. Bank Performance.
37.    The Bank's performance was satisfactory in several aspects of identification, preparation,
appraisal, and supervision of the ERC. It was particularly satisfactory in outlining a macro and structural
adjustment program to stabilize the economy and then accelerate growth. The Bank was also successful
in coordinating the adjustment program of ERC with the Fund's SAF and in coordinating assistance with
the Japanese OECF --the co-financier of the ERC. With regard to the PMEAC, the Bank's performance
was satisfactory in that the design of the credit focused on a key area of reform which had Government
support, was achievable, and had wide indirect benefits.
38.    The Bank's performance appears to have been less than fully satisfactory, however, in the design
of the ERC. Efforts to reduce subsidies of state enterprises, raise tariffs, contract the civil service, and
limit and target social transfers while privatizing enterprises meant that many Sri Lankans would suffer
some losses from the reform program, at least over the short-run. Therefore, the ambitious reform effort
probably led to reform exhaustion and then reversal of some reforms as the Government expended its
capacity to sustain short-run costs for long-run benefits.
39.   This probably contributed to the reversal of the reform of the civil service. The reform was
important for stabilization of fiscal expenditures and for improving the quality of government services.
But the design of the reform seems flawed because it focused on reducing overall numbers of civil
servants rather than eliminating redundant or obsolete functions, granted high benefits for voluntary
retirements (under Circular 44/90), and because it continued the benefits once the reform ended. The
Bank staff advised the Government to follow the advice of the Sri Lankan Administrative Reform
Commission by targeting the staff cutbacks, but this did not become a condition in the Development
Credit Agreement.
40.    Agreement was reached through centralized negotiations between the Bank team and senior
officials of the Government. The commitment of the Government to the ERC program was then
undermined by inadequate explanation of the agreed program to the line ministries and to the public.
Commitment might have been stronger, and a greater part of the program might have been implemented,
if the Government and the Bank had agreed to build support for the adjustment program through broader
efforts at communication and persuasion . The absence of such an effort made it more difficult to sustain
reforms through the electoral cycle.
F. Borrower Performance
41.    The Government's performance was satisfactory in the preparation of the ERC and in the
preparation and implementation of the PMEAC. There was however a one year delay in implementation
of the conditions of the PMEAC. There were, in contrast, more significant delays and also reversals in
the ERC program. These reversals suggest weak commitment, which should be understood in the
context of the ambitious design of the ERC program and the difficult of mobilizing and sustaining
political support.
42.   It was however distressing that the Government reversed progress in the targeting of the Food
Stamp Program and did not resolve the pension issues after release of the second tranche. These are
special concerns because the Bank had demonstrated flexibility on the issues by providing a Board waiver
that permitted release of the second tranche. Furthermore, the second tranche release was also followed
by significant new hiring, especially of teachers. The re-establishment of wheat and fertilizer subsidies in
late 1994 also reversed earlier progress under the ERC.



Jo
G. Assessment of Outcome
43.    The outcome of the ERC is rated satisfactory on the strength of its contribution to the
development of the private sector and to the macro-economic stabilization and recovery of Sri Lanka
following an intense civil conflict. Many of its structural measures, however, were realized late or
incompletely. The clearest examples are the failure of the civil service reform and slippage in reforming
the social transfer programs. The outcome of the PMEAC was satisfactory because it largely achieved its
objective of reforming and privatizing public manufacturing enterprises, and because the Government has
since built upon and continued these reforms.
H. Future Operation.
44.   'Future operation' refers mostly to the operation of projects. The ERC and the PMEAC were
adjustment credits oriented toward stabilization of an economy in crisis through balance of payments
assistance and structural reforms. Therefore there are no provisions for operations, as in a project credit.
The new Government's budget for 1995, however, could be regarded as a partial plan for future operation
because it provides for progress in several areas supported by the ERC and PMEAC: rationalization of the
social transfer programs, simplification and reform of the trade regime, the introduction of the VAT, and
privatization. Since the budget was announced there has been some slippage in control of the social
transfer programs and the breakdown of the cease-fire has increased military expenditures. As a result the
fiscal deficit appears off-track --headed toward about 10 percent of GDP for 1995.
45.    The Poverty Alleviation Credit continues to support the poverty alleviation objective of the ERC
by supporting the operations of the JTF. The Private Finance Development Credit follows through on the
private sector development objectives of both credits by supporting the privatization of banking and
reform of the financial system. The development of the private sector would receive further support from
a planned credit to facilitate private sector investment in infrastructure.
I. Key Lessons Learned.
46.    The main lesson from the ERC and PMEAC is that an adjustment effort should focus on building
broad support for the two or three most important policy measures. The PMEAC was more successful
than the ERC because it focused on the central goal of privatization and received broader support from
the Government. In contrast, the impact of the ERC was somewhat dissipated by its multiple policy
measures. It was difficult to achieve progress in many areas at once when adjustment created short-term
losers and when fear of adjustment may have been widespread. This points to the importance of
explaining policy issues through seminars, press conferences, and through the translation and
dissemination of economic and sector work.
47.   The failed attempt to reform the civil service provides lessons for the future. First, retrenchment
should focus on specific categories of employees. The bulk of Sri Lankan civil servants are in the low-
skill job categories. Efficiency in these categories is low because of over-staffing and the slow
introduction of office technology. Moreover, many teachers are entering the civil service with low
education and training levels. With a large share of employees occupying lower level positions and the
bulk of the wage bill, there is a strong case for focusing on rationalizing staff within this cohort. A further
lesson is that, rather than attempt to retrench civil servants throughout the Administration, efforts should
be concentrated on those parts of the Administration that have lost their function. The consolidation of
units that have over-lapping responsibilities may also open possibilities for retrenchment.



11
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table la: ERC - Summary of Assessments
Achievement of Objectives
Substantial    Partial     Negligible       Not
applicable
Macroeconomic policies           X
Sector policies                                X
Financial objectives             X
Institutional objectives                       X
Physical objectives                                                        X
Poverty reduction                X
Gender concerns                                                            X
Other social objectives                                                    X
Environmental objectives                                                   X
Public sector management                                     X
Private sector development       X
Project Sustainability
Likely                               Unlikely                   Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Likely                      Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                        X
Preparation assistance                                X
Appraisal                                                                x
Supervision                                           X
Borrower Performance
Likely                      Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                           X
Implementation                                                           x
Covenant compliance                                                      x
Assessment of Outcome
Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      Highly unsatisfactory
x



12
Table lb: PMEAC - Summary of Assessments
Achievement of Objectives
Substantial    Partial      Negligible      Not
applicable
Macroeconomic policies           X
Sector policies                                                            X
Financial objectives             X
Institutional objectives         X
Physical objectives                                                        X
Poverty reduction                                                          X
Gender concerns                                                            X
Other social objectives                                                    X
Environmental objectives                                                   X
Public sector management                       X
Private sector development       X
Project Sustainability
Likely                               Unlikely                   Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Likely                      Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                        X
Preparation assistance                                X
Appraisal                                             X
Supervision                                           X
Borrower Performance
Likely                      Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                           X
Implementation                                        X
Covenant compliance                                   X
Assessment of Outcome
Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      Highly unsatisfactory
x



13
Table 2: ERC & PMEAC - Related Bank Credits
Credit title            Purpose                       Year of     Status
Approval
Poverty Alleviation     (a) to provide a production-  FY91        Lending
oriented structure for the
Govermnent poverty strategy and
(b) to alleviate poverty by
financing micro-infrastructure,
micro-credit, and social
mobilization projects.
Small & Medium Industry                               FY91        Lending
IV
Private Finance                                       FY93        Lending
Development



14
Table 3a: ERC Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned      Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                            5/3/89                      5/29/89
Preparation                             12/13/89                      2/13/89
Appraisal                                11/6/90                      1/14/90
Negotiations                             3/28/90                      3/26/90
Board presentation                        5/1/90                       5/1/90
Signing                                   5/2/90                       5/2/90
Effectiveness                             5/4/90                       5/4/90
Project completion                       6/30/94                     12/31/94
Credit closing                           6/30/94                     12/31/94
Table 3b: PMEAC Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned      Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                          11/17/88                     11/17/87
Preparation                               4/1/88                      2/28/88
Appraisal                                1/14/89                      5/14/90
Negotiations                              9/1/89                       8/1/90
Board presentation                       11/1/89                     11/27/90
Signing                                  11/2/89                     11/30/90
Effectiveness                           12/10/89                     12/13/90
Project completion                      11/30/94                   11/30/94 i/
Credit closing                          11/30/94                     11/30/95
1/ Technical assistance on-going to 11/30/95.



l)
Table 4a: ERC Credit Disbursements, Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal estimate (mill US$)    42.5    42.5   2.5     2.5
Actual (mill US$)             28.0    27.6    50.4      1.2      0.8      1.4
Actual as % of estimate       65.9    64.9             48.0
Date of final disbursement                                   3/13/95
Table 4b: PMEAC Credit Disbursements, Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal estimate (mill US$)         57.5    57.5      2.5      5.8      2.5
Actual (mill US$)                     56.6      5.1    57.7      6.8      0.4
Actual as % of estimate               98.4      8.9            117.2    16.0
Date of final disbursement                                   3/14/95



16
Table 5: ERC & PMEAC - Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(Not applicable)
Table 6: ERC & PMEAC - Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not applicable)



17
Table 7a: ERC - Studies Included in Project
No studies included at appraisal.
Table 7b: PMEAC - Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal  Status        Impact of Study
Strategy for the    To promote modernization of the   Completed,       Satisfactory.
Development of the   industry and its development by  11/1991
Pulp & Paper                   the private sector.
Industry
Strategy for         To liberalize and modernize the   Completed       Satisfactory.
restructuring salt                     industry.       1992
operations.
Strategy for         To modernize and privatize the     Not    The Government and
restructuring and                      industry.   completed  the Bank agreed that the
modernizing the                                                   completion was no
Cement Industry.                                                   longer necessary
following privatization
of the industry.
Strategy for          To streamline, modernize, and   Completed,       Satisfactory.
streamlining the pulp  commercialize the enterprise.   1992.
and paper operations
of the National Paper
Corporation.



18
Table 8a: ERC - Project Costs & Financing
Project costs
Item                   Appraisal estimate  Actual or latest (SDR
(SDR million)           million?
Goods                              65.064                64.686
Consultant's services               3.490                 2.656
Total                              68.554                67.342
Project financing
Item                   Appraisal estimate   Actual or latest (SDR
(SDR million)           million)
Total (all IDA)                    68.554                67.342
Table 8b: PMEAC - Project Costs & Financing
Project costs
Item                   Anpraisal estimate   Actual or latest (SDR
(SDR million)           million)
Goods                              87.226                87.253
Consultants services                2.105                 1.186
Total                              89.332                88.443
Project financing
Item                   Appraisal estimate  Actual or latest (SDR
(SDR million)           million)
Total (all IDA)                    89.332                88.443



19
Table 9: ERC & PMEAC - Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not applicable)



20
Table 10a: ERC - Status of Legal Covenants i/
Agreement    Section      Covenant    Present       Original     Revised      Descriptions of covenant             Comments
type        status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Development  2.02c        I            C                                     Open and maintain a special
Credit                                                                      account in US dollars
Agreement
(DCA)
DCA           3.04b       I            C                                     Audit records and accounts   Audits for 1990 through 1994 have
and provide IDA with an     been submitted. The first audit was
audit report within six     submitted on 12/31/92.
months of the end of the
fiscal year.
Covenant tvp
I = Accounts/Audit
2 = Financial performance
3 = Flow and utilization of Project Funds
4 = Counterpart Funding
5 = Management aspects of the Project or
of its executing agency.
6 = Environmental covenants
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
NC = Not complied with
SOON = Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP = Complied with partially.
NYD = Not yet due.



21
Table 10a: ERC - Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement    Section    Covenant    Present      Original    Revised      Descriptions of covenant           Comments
type       status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Schedule 3    1 a        12          NC          6/90                    Rice, wheat-flour, fertilizer,   At present, the price of rice is
of the                                                                   and transport subsidies not    subsidized indirectlv through
Agreement                                                                reinstated                 purchases by the Paddy Marketing
(DCA)                                                                                               Board, wheat-flour is subsidized
directly at a cost of about Rs 5
billion per year, and fertilizer is
subsidized directly and through
distribution of coupons.
lb         12          C           6/91                    Agreement on plan to
restructure the sugar industry.
Ic         12          CP          6/91                    Agreement on plan to       The capital gains tax and stamp duty
implement recommendations  on share transfers were eliminated in
of the Tax Commission.    the 1991 budget but the VAT has not
be introduced.
Id         II          CP          6/91                    Macro-economic policies
agreed in the 2nd year PFP
implemented.
2a         12          NC          6/91                    Reduction in central and
provincial administration
staff.
2b          12         C           6/91                    Agreement on a plan to     There was an initial 40,000 person
reduce central and provincial  reduction in the civil service. This
administration staff in 1990,  was followed by hiring which more
and the plan is reflected in   than reversed the initial reduction.
the budget,
2c         12          C           6/91                    Agreement on a plan to
reduce staff in non-
commercial parastatals in
1991, and the plan is
reflected in the budget.



22
Table 10a: ERC - Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement    Section     Covenant    Present     Original    Revised      Descriptions of covenant             Comments
type       status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
Schedule 3    2d         12          C           6/91                    Cabinet approval of
of the DCA                                                              legislation to establish a civil
service commission.
2e          12         NC          6/91                    Conversion of the Employees  The Board waived this condition for 2nd
Provident Fund into an    tranche release because parliament
employee pension scheme.    could not approve the conversion
because it was not in session . The
conversion was not approved because of
design problems and union opposition.
2f          12         C           6/91                     Agreement on a plan to
reduce the cost of the civil
service pension scheme.
2g          12         C           6/91                     Agreement on a plan to
rationalize public investment,
and incorporation of the plan
into the budget.
2h         12          C           6/91                    Deregulation of air freight    On June 28, 1991, the Government
operation.                allowed all airlines to register to carry
air freight.
2i         12          C           6/91                    Agreement on a plan to     In September 1990 a 4-band tariff was
introduce a 4-band tariff and  introduced and the maximum rate was
to reduce the maximum      lowered to 50%. In the 1995 budget the
tariff.                   maximum rate was lowered to 45%.
However several goods remained
outside the standard tariff system, were
imported under exemptions, or were
subject to quotas.



23
Table 10b: PMEAC - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section      Covenant    Present       Original     Revised      Descriptions of covenant             Comments
type       status     fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Development  2.02c        I            C                                    Open and maintain a special
Credit                                                                      account in US dollars.
Agreement
(DCA)
3.04b      2            CP                                    Audit records and accounts   The statements of accounts and
and provide IDA with audit   audits of the special account for
reports within six months of   1990 through 1993 have been
the end of the fiscal year.  submitted. The documents for 1994
have not yet been submitted.
Covenant type
I = Accounts/Audit
2 = Financial performance
3 = Flow and utilization of Project Funds
4 = Counterpart Funding
5 = Management aspects of the Project or
of its executing agency.
6 = Environmental covenants
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
NC = Not complied with
SOON = Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP = Complied with partially.
NYD = Not yet due.



24
Table 10b: PMEAC - Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement    Section    Covenant    Present      Original    Revised      Descriptions of covenant           Comments
type       status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
Schedule 3    1          12          C           11/91                   Submission of a Bill to    The Parliament passed the Act in
of the                                                                   Parliament for enacting an  October 9, 1990, and the
Development                                                              Industrial Promotion Act.    Industrialization Commission to
Credit                                                                                             implement the Act, was established
Agreement                                                                                           in January 1991.,
2           12         C            11/91                  Submission of a Bill to    The Parliament passed the Act,
Parliament for enacting a  which introduces private
Mining & Minerals         participation to the sector, in June
Development Act.           1992.
3           12         CD           11/91                  Progress in conversion of  Conversion was completed in early
companies held by the      1992.
Ministry of Industries into
companies.
4           12         CD           11/91                  Divestiture of at least 40% of  About 48% of Treasury shares in the
the Treasury's shares in the   sector representing more than half
mining & mineral sector   the asset value had been divested at
(excluding salt), representing  second Tranche release (Dec.,
at least half the asset value of  1992).
such public enterprises.
5           12         CD           11/91      92          Adoption of a strategy to  IDA and the Government agreed on
restructure and private salt   the plan in 1991.
operations.



25
Table lOb: PMEAC - Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
Agreement    Section    Covenant    Present      Original    Revised     Descriptions of covenant           Comments
type       status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
Schedule 3    6          12         CD          11/91                   Divestiture of at least 60% of  About 70% of Treasury shares in the
of the                                                                  the Treasury's shares in the   sector representing 75% of the asset
Development                                                             non-mining & non-mineral   value had been divested at second
Credit                                                                  sector (excluding salt),  Tranche release (Dec., 1992).
Agreement                                                               representing at least half the
asset value of such public
enterprises.
7          12          C           11/91       11/91       Adoption of a strategy to  IDA and the Government agreed on
streamline the pulp and paper  a strategy.
operations of the National
Paper Corporation
8          12          NC          11/91       Completion  Adoption of a strategy to  In 1991 the Government privatized a
not        restructure and modemize the  cement plant in the south and in
necessary   cement industry.          Sept. 1992 it privatized a plant in the
West. The remaining plant cannot
be privatized because it is in the
conflict zone. Therefore, IDA
agreed that a restructuring and
modemization strategy is no longer
necessary or desirable.



26
Table 11: ERC & PMEAC - Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(Not applicable)



27
Table 12a: ERC use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs.
Stage of                  Planned             Revised              Actual
Project Cycle          Weeks       US$    Weeks        US$    Weeks         US$
Through appraisal       141.0                 122                 60.8     142.3
Appraisal-Board          88.0                 101                 51.0     105.0
Board-effectiveness         -
Supervision              31.0                33.3                 57.8     136.5
Completion                  -                 6.0       16.4         -
Total                   260A                2623                 1696      383 8
Table 12b: PMEAC use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs.
Stage of                  Planned             Revised              Actual
Project Cycle          Weeks       US$    Weeks        US$    Weeks         US$
Through appraisal                                                192.0     408.5
Appraisal-Board                                                   29.5      74.0
Board-effectiveness              -              -         -         -          -
Supervision              45.9                46.9                 97.5     202.3
Completion                  -         -       6.0       14.8
iTtal



28
Table 13a: ERC - Bank Resources: Mission
Stage of project cycle   Month/year  Number of    Days in field    Specialized staff       PerforTnance rting           Types of
persons                    skills represented                                    problems
Implementation    Development
status        objectives
Through appraisal        10/89             10             10    Economics, bid.
1/90            15             15
Appraisal through
board approval
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision          7/90             4              10        Economist,               S                S
8/90             3              11         Technical               S                S
12/90             2             18          assistance              S                S
4/91             4              17       (op/fnance)               S                S
11/93             3              5                                  S                S
Completion           7/95              1              2         Economist               S                S



29
Table 13b: PMEAC - Bank Resources: Mission
Stage of project cycle   Month/year  Number of    Days in field   Specialized staff       Perfornace rating            Types of
persons                    skills represented                                   problems
Implementation    Development
status        objectives
Through appraisal         1/90             2             12   Industry, finance
4/90             2             16
5/90             1             i8           Industry
Appraisal through
Board approval
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision          3/91                                 Ind, finance, eng.
6/91
10/91                                 Industry/finance
3/92                                     Engineering
4/92                                     Engineering
11/92                                 Technical assist.
12/93                                 Technical assist.
Completion           7/95             1              1         Economics



30
ANNEX 1
GOVERNMENT EVALUATION
Public Manuifactirinig Eniterprises AdJUjstnaent Credit (PMEAC)
The PMEC specifically supported the PME rcform programimie whicih encompassed
new legislation, tariff reforms, trade reforimis, dismiiantalling of licellse controls and imaniy other
measures wliich contributed to create an eivironimeint in whichi the PME restructuring was
carried out.  The PME's were primarily frced fromii Line Ministry controls by converting
them to companies so that-thiey could rcspondl to market forces. Monopolies were removed
and import tariffs were rationalized progressively. As of now, four tariff bands prevail witli
the maximnum at 35%. Furthier movement is expected. Non-tariff controls have also becn
removed, other than in respect of a few items whiich have been specified in tihe law due to
strategic reasons. Formal approval for setting up industries was done away with and the new
Industrial Promotion Act provided for the setltiig up of industries freely, while registration
was required for purposes of record. A to)tally new regime in the mines and minerals sector
has been brougilt about with the enactmenit of a new Mincs and Minerals Act.
2.    hlie Industrial Prwolnuotiozi Act
One of the most important itcJlls of legislation that was introduced during the period
under review was the Industrial Promotion Act No. 46 of 1990. This Act provided for the
automatic approval of industries. It also established an Industrialization Commission to advise
the government on ticd promotion of industry. It also provided for the setting up of an
Advisory Council for Industry where the Local Cliambers, Federations and Associations in
the private sector are heavily represented. This Council providcd a forum for representatives
of industry to discuss issuies with Ilte governmnit for the developmcnt of industry and also
to advise the Minister on the effcctiveicss of mcasures taken.  Anothier institutionial
arrangemiient providled for in tlhe. Act was thc sciting ul) or Regional Industry Scrvice
Committees, whiich would concentrate on tlIe preparation of plans and programmes. for the
development of industries in the regions.
3.    Only a few industries were subijecited to controls. They were industries manufacturing
arms and ammunition, explosives, military hiardware, poisons, narcotics, dangerous drugs etc.
and industries producing currency, coins and security documncits.



31                                     ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.    The new Minies anid Minerals Act
Thlc mineral scctor was identified by the Governmenit as a key area for rapid economic
development. The Minerals Law No. 4 of 1973 whichi existed tip to July 1992 did not cater
sufficiently to modern day developiicint of the mineral sector. Investors bothi local and
foreign, started showing interest in participatinig in mineral exploration and mining activities
in Sri Lanka but the lack of an effective and upto date mining legislation, witli the
institutional framework which provided an even playing ficid was a major drawback in
catalysing such investment opportunities. Tlhe new Mines and Mi, erals Act No. 33 of 1992
provided for the most up to date, requirciicimts of a minling regime.    I of the Act provided
tKA
for the establishinent of a Gcological Survey anid Mines Bureau (GSMB). The former
Geological Survey Department was absorbed into this Bureau. The iiain functions of the
Bureau were :-
(a)   to undertake the systematc geological mapping of Sri Lanka and the
preparationi of geological maps;
(b)   to identify and assess the mineral resources of Sri Lanka;
(c)   to evaluate the cominercial viability of mining for, processing and export of,
stuch, minerals;
(d)   to regulate the exploration and mininig for minerals and the processing, trading
in and export of such minicrils, by thc issue of licences;
(e)   to advise the Minister on nieasures to be adopted for the promotion of the
extraction and production of minerals, on a commercial basis.
5.    Part II of the Act provided for the exploration, mining, transport, processing, sale and
export of minerals, under license issued under the provisions of the Act. It also provided for
the reservation of certain minerals and natural resources, mineral waters, and geothiermal
deposits with the Minister being authorised to designate any other miinerals he deemed
necessary to reserve. It also prescribed conditions on exploration, mining and trading
activities and also for the protection of the environiment of mining areas.



32                                   ANNEX 1
Page 3
6.    Three leading consultants who contributed towards revicwing mining legislation tilat
existed at the time and hclped to preparc the new lcgislationi and the supporting regulations
were, Mr. Hunt Talmage Ill (April 1990) Mr. Jcrry Cape (May 1990) and Dr. Jack Garnctt
(September 1993 and thereafter). The current legislation is generally recognized as one of
thie most up to date in the Asiani region.
7.    Ihle Geological Survey ansd Mines Burenu
Tlhe Geological Survey and Mines Bureau whiich was set up under the new Act has
given a completely new shrust to investincnt in thc mineral sector. The establishment of the
Mineral Titles Registry was a great step forward in providing confidence to investors. This
was primarily done witih the assistance of Dr. Jack Garnett during one of his assignments here
under PMEAC. Meanwhile another Consuiltant Mr. Stephien Hurst (under PMEIAC) from
Canada worked out important clerical details in the establishlilicnt of a fully opcrational
Minerals Titlcs Registry. Sincc the Minerals Titles Registry became operational there has
becn a gradual influx of applications for rights and concessions. The licences applied for
were mainly in respect of Grapiite, Mica, Silica Quartz, Rock Plhosphate, Calcite, Feldspar,
Dolainite and Coral Limes Stone. Meanwhiile Mr. Trevor Wliarren, a consulting mining
Engineer from Zim)babwe who was got down again under the PMEAC on a two months
mission has drafted regulations pertaining to the mxanagemcnt, safety and healthi of miners.
Meanwihile a comprelhensive set of environmental regulations formulated by the local Central
Environimilental Autliority have also becin gazcttcd by teie Ministry incliarge of environmcntal
matters.
8.    Since senior level geologists with experience were not available to expand lhe
activities of the GSMB, arrangeinents were made with the British Geological Survey (BGS)
for one of thleir senior geologists, Dr. I'eter Mosely to work wilh the GSMB for one-year in
the first instance withi effect from November 1993. This contract has since becei extended by
anotlier year and will now expire in November 1994.  His main tasks were to make
recommenidations for thie establisheiicnt of a user-frcndly data base, identify areas of minieral
potential for promotion to investors and idcntify areas of minieral potential for additional
regional investigation. He was also to assist in the planning of a multipliase geological map
publicationl programme. His contribution to the work of the GSMB has becn outstanding.



33                                 ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.    Geological Mapping Programine
Meanwhile action had also to bc takeit to overcomc one major slhortcoming that ilic
GSMB had i.e. the lack of geological maps. hlic prime necd for any systematic search for
mincrals by modern mehliods is the availability of adequate base iiaps. Even thoughi the
formicr Geological Survey Dcpartiimenit had collcctcd a considerable amounit of data, they have
not been able to bring outany geological maps whichi could be used by those prospecting for
minerals. Some of the material available had even perished. In order to meet this short-
coming a Geological Mapping Project was formulated based on a report from the BGS. The
main objective of gcological mapping and the printing of geological maps is to demarcate
areas whicii are of interest from tlie poinit of view of niiferal exploration. Phase I of tlhe
mappinig project was compicetd by end last year and Phase 11 has just commenced. Phase 11
will be over by Noveniber 1995 whien tie .PMEAC will be wound up. Seven maps on tlic
scale 1:100,000 full colour prinited in UK will bc brought out by the end of Phase 11 and this
woould cover virtually 55% of the country. Meanwhile the capability of thie GSMB to
continue tihis work on their own.in respect of the balancc 45% is being strengthened witi tlihe
provision of training consultancies and a computcr and digitizing equipment, all funded under
the PMEAC. This is a rare instanice wherc whilc comipletinig almost half the mapping work
including final printinig of maps, actioll lias bcen taken to develop local capability, so that this
work could continue thercafter in local hanids.
10.   Sub-Sector lPolicy docuiientis
Consultancics provided under the I'MIMAC also helped to develop subsector policy
documents. Two sucih documents wcre on the Salt Industry and the Paper Industry in Sri
Latnka and these were approved by the IDA/World Bank.
11.   Tlie Salt Iidustiry
The policy document oni tihe salt industry concentrated on a strategy to restructure and
privatize salt extracting and processing operations. The report subniitted by Mr. Peter Harben,
Consultant was used as the basis for tlie development of this strategy. The monopoly in the
productioni of salt that existed for a vcry long time was removed witli the repealing of the Salt
Ordinanice. Privatc Sector salt manufacturing units hiave since slepped up production and now



34                               ANNEX 1
Page 5
account for virtually 30% of the country's salt production. Among the measures that were
adopted to restructiure the salt industry wcre
(a)   improving thc existing production and semi-production areas and developing potential
areas. In addition to the traditional saltcrns in the Soutlierin area, a private sector joilt
venture projcct witlh Japanese collaboration has alrcady been approved by thc Board
of Investment.
(b)    Restructuring Lanka Salt Ltd wliich was the successor to tihc National Salt
Corporation, by braking it up into two companies, one for the Southern and one for
the Western regioni.
(c)    Encourage growth of efficienit and competitive privatc sector salterns.
(d)    Diversifying the salt induustry for by-products.
The National Healthi Council of Sri Lanka recommnended that salt consumed by people
should be iodised. T his programme has now gathered momentum. lodisation equipment was
provi(led by UNICEF and iodisation will become compulsory witlh cffect from July '95.
Mcanwilie the possibility of exporting salt is also being looked into. Steps have to be taken
hiowever to improve quality and also the scale of production, if exports are to be achiieved.
Thle joint venture project in the Soutliern region will enter .thc export market for salt.
12. Tlic Paper Iiidustry
Tile strategy to streamlinie the pull) and paper opcrmtions of tilc National Paper
Company was derived primarily fromii the advise given by two consultalnts viz: Mr. R.
Lallouclie of France and Mr. Ray Clialk of the World Bank. In view of the fact that imiport
tariffs are being rationalized and that the National Paper Company has continuously faced
difficulties in satisfactorily .reating tih effllucint dischiarge (Black Liquor) tlie vital question
lias bceni whicthier the company could meet (lic challeniges of duty rationalization wihile being
environmenit frienldly. One of the iniportant factors in rcstructuiring thc company was to be
the progressive replacemcilt of rice straw witli wood as the raw matcrial for chemical pulping.



35                                ANNEX 1
Page 6
The use of rice straw has created serious environmental problems and the Chemical Recovery
Systcm that had been set up to treat the efnfuent bcfore discharge and also recovcr the caustic
soda, failed to funictioni. Alternative strategies arc now being looked into. Meanwhile thle
progressive chanige over froin the use of straw to wood pulp is being implcmlclnltcd.
Action has bcen initiated to coordinate with the Forest Department to ensure the
cultivation of tropical woods such as Pinus and Eucalyptus.  The private sector has becn
encouiraged to supply Albizzia. Meanwhilie waste paper recycling has also been stepped up.
Nevertheless the National Paper Company continues to face difficulties due to increasing
costs. This situation demanded a complete viability study of the National Paper Company.
This was entrtisted to GOPA Consultanits of Gcrmaniy and was funded by the PMEAC. They
made a complete assessmenti of the equipmnctt capabilities of thei mills, domestic demand, raw
material needs, investmc.;:s required to improve production and efficiency and a complete
techno-econiomic feasibility of the two mills. TIhe findings of the study would help the
National Paper Conipany in its futLire management decisions.
13.   Lanka Mineral Sands Ltd wliicih exports llnienitc, Rultile, and Zircon has been
operating under difficult circumstances due to its location in the North Eastern region, whici
is withini the conflict area.   Neverthieless a comprclehiesive report on improving thie
management and marketing aspects of the comi1pany has becn provided by Dr. David Moore
who did a short terml consultancy unider the l MEAC. Value additioll processes have been
identified but any concrete action will hiave to await bctter security conditions in the area.
14. I'lhosphate Fertilizer Manufacture
The PMEAC also funded consultancies to assist negotiations conducted by government
to set up a joint venture to manufacture Phosphate fertilizer utilizing the rock phospilate
deposit in the North Central Province which was discovered in 1972. Explorations have
revealed a proven reserve of 25 million MT. of Phosphiate rock witli an average of 37% P
content in this deposit. However the infcrred reserves are in the region of 60 million MT.
This phiosphate rock is hiowever not solubic in water and tlherefore cannot be used for short
term crops. The rock carried a higih content of Chloride, Iron and Alluminium. The high
chloride contenit gives rise to corrosion in plant anid machinery while the high iron and



36                                ANNEX 1
Page 7
alluminiiuin content results in a low filtration rate. In order to set up a joint venture with a
partner who had the technology to get over the above dificultlics, proposals werc invited on
a worldwide basis and Freeport McMoRan Resource Partiners of USA were identified for
negotiations. Tllereafter two rounds of negotiationis have already been conducted witli tlhen
with a view to setting up a joint venture witlh the local company, Lanka Phosphate Ltd.
These negotiations which have been of a highily complicated and wide ranging nature have
not yet been concluded.-1n case, the govermncit is succcssful In setting up this joint venture,
it will be the biggest single foreign investncint in Sri Lanka. The project cost is likely o
exceed US $ 400 M. This will also give confidence to other foreign investors who will
follow.
15. Privatisatiozi
As far as privatization of entirprises coming under the purview of the Ministry of
Industrial DevelopriTent is concerned, particulars arc given in summary form in Annex I. The
procedure followed was to convert the govermnent owned business undertaking and public
Corporations into companies in tihe first instance, in terms of the Conversion of Public
Corporations or Government Owned Business Undertakings into Public Companies Act No.
23 of 1987 and thereafter privatise these companies. The extent of privatization in each case
is given in the Annexure. In all cases where over 50% of the shares have been divested
anolier 10% of the shares have been distributcd free among employees. The formula used
for the distribution of these free shares has bcen the period of service of the employee without
any other consideration. In tIIe privatisation process, tecliniqucs adopted in Sri Lanka have
been basically the following
(a)    Management contracts culminating in a buvout. Loss making institutions such as
some of the textile mills were turndcd around as a result of the infusion of foreign
management expertise and thereafter, shares were issued to the public when the mills
became viable. In this exercise, ownership was retained, a defined degree of control
was maintained and a high level of inanagemnent and otler skills were injected into the
enterprise enhiancing its overall efficiency.



37                                   ANNEX 1
Page 8
(b)   Public offering of shares - as was done in the case of United Motors Ltd. and Bogala
Graphitc Lanka Ltd.
(c)    Negotiated sale of shares. The advanlage of a negotiatcd sale is that the prospective
buyer is known in advance and can be evaluated and be selected on his ability to bring
in such benefits as techniology, market access and even management, if necessary. The
Ceylon Oxygen Company would be a good example, whiere the successful buyer was
Norsk Hydro A.S. of Norway, a "Fortune 500 Coinpany".
(d)   Sale of assets, as in the case of the Ceylon Plywoods Corporation, wiere thie liabilities
were so high that it could not be sold as a "going concern". The Government had to
take over all the liabilities and the assets have becn offcred for sale thereafter.
16.   The annexure also reflects a few companies that have yct to be privatized. The
Government has recently appointed a "Public Enterprises Reforms Commission" whicih is
entrusted witlh the task of future-privatizations. Tliey are in the process of    conducting
studies, working out stratages and identifyinig on a priority basis the    companies to be
privatized progressively.
17.   The restructuring of the PMEs and their privatization was part and parcel of the
structural adjustment process and the libemlization of the economy. In consequence the
economy showed remarkable improvemeint. Privatization is a logical step in the governments
programme where the private sector is expected to be the engine of growth.
18.   The PMEAC supported the restructurinig of the PMEs, evolution of new policy
approaches, privatisation of enterprises and the setting up of new institutions and upto date
systems. The present status of the Geological Survey and Mines Bureau and its geological
mapping programme stand out as unique contribuitions of the Credit to the minerals sector.
The privatisation programme gathered momiienitiuim under the PMEAC and tile short term
consultancies provided expert advice and guidance to these enterprises.



38                                        ANNEX 1
Page 9
Ocialisation and PrivatisatiDn of Enterprises
undver the Ministry of Industrial Develcpnent
Na.e of Corporation            Date of        Name of Canpany              Eguity          Extent of        Nature Of  Privatisatim
Canversiom                                 Capital         Privat-
to a                                                        isation
1. GOBU of United Motors       9.05.89        United Motors Lanka Ltd      Rs. 100   M       100%          Public share Issue
10% free to employees
2. GDBU of Ceylon Oxygen       5.12.89        Ceylon Oxgen Ltd.            Rs. 60    M       100%           Public Share Issue
10% free to aeployees
3. Ceylon Ceranics            19.01.90        Lanka Ceramic  Ltd,          Rs. 300   M        73%           Public Share Issue
Corporation
4. Cevlon Leathe- Products   28.09.90         Ceylon Leather Products      Rs.  50   M       100%           (90% negotiated sale
Corporation                                    LTD                                                    (10% free to ermlovees
3. Sri Lanka Tvre              4.10.90        kelani Tyres Ltd.            Rs. 260   M       100%           (60% negotiated sale
Corporation                                                                                           (30% Public Share issue
(10% free to e-mloyees
6. Ceylon State Hardware      5.11.90        Lanka Loha Hardware Ltd       Rs.  75  Nl       100%           (90% negotiated sale
Corporation                                                                                            (10% free to erplovees
7. National Salt             21.12.90        (a) Lanka Salt Ltd            Rs.  35   M         _
Corporation             18.03.94        (b) Puttalam Salt Ltd         Rs.  25   M
8. Ceylon Plywoids            9.01.91        Lanka Plvwocod Products Ltd   Rs. 175   M       closed down    Assets being sold.
Corporation
9. Paranthan Cherdcals       17.01.91        Paranthan Chemicals Co. Ltd  Rs.  40   M
Corporation



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Qrme=rcialisation and Privatisation of Enterprises
under the Ministry of induvstrial Dwevelprent
.-me of Corporation            Date of       N kar of Czparry              Equity        EXtent of       Nature of privatisation
Ctnnersin                                   Capital        privatims
to aatc
______ ______ ______ _____q2 pkany                                                   ati__ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _
10. National  Paper            01.07.92        National Paper               Rs. 323 M
Corporation                               Ccnpany  Ltd
11. Ceylon Mineral Sands       17.03.92        Lanka Mineral sands Ltd      Ps. 800 M
Corporation
12. State Mining &             11.03.91        (a) Bogala Graphite          Ps.279.6 M        50%          (40% Public Share issue
Myineral Development                            Lanka Ltd                                             (10% to enployees
Corporation               11.03.91        (b) Kahatagaha Graphite      Rs. 13  M        100%          (90% negotiated sale
Lanka Ltd                                           (10% to employees
16.07.92        (c) Lanka Phosphate Ltd      Rs. 72.5 M



40
ANNEX2
THE GOVERNMENT DID NOT SUBMIT A REPORT



41                                       ANNEX 3
SMMIARY OF OECF'S EYALUATION OF
SRI LANKA'S ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PRLGRAhM
1. In November 1991, the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan
provided a loan in the amount of W13.1 billion to support Sri Lanka's Economic_
Restructuring Program (ERP). The loan cofinanced the second tranche of the
relevant IDA credit, and was fully disbursed in December 1991. OECF dispatched
an evaluation mission in September 1992. This paper summarizes the results of
OECF's evaluation of the program.
2.  The three main objectives of the ERP were to:  a) achieve macroeconomics
stabilization through deficit reduction and improvement of external balances;
b) enhance the efficiency of the civil service through public sector reform and
privatization; and c) implement a more efficient and more effective poverty
alleviation program.
3.  OECF evaluated the results of the macroeconomics stabilization effort as
mixed". Although there was some improvement in the rate of economic growth and
an increase in foreign reserves, there were shortcomings in the reduction of the
budget deficit, control of inflation, and domestic savings. For example, the
ratio of the fiscal deficit to GDP in 1990 and 1991 remained at 11% and 12.9%
respectively. These ratios exceeded the planned targets of 9.9% and 10.1%.
The excessive budget deficit continues to be the largest concern for the Sri
Laukan economy.
4. The disappointing outcome on the budget deficit was attributed to the
failure of privatization to produce anticipated profits. In fact, there were
unanticipated costs associated with the privatization effort. OECF's evaluation
focused on privatization in the following three areas:
a) Rationalization of the public plantation sector
b) Privatization of the public bus sector, and
c) Privatization of public manufacturing enterprises
5. Rationalization of the public plantation sector                                   -*
Out of 507 plantations managed by two state-owned corporations (JEDB and SLSPC),
452 relatively well run plantations were combined into 22 Regional Plantation
Corporations (RPCs). The ownership of the assets, such as land and farm



42                               ANNEX 3
buildings, was retained by both state-owned corporations. Only the lease rights
of these assets were transferred to the RPCs. The management of the RPCs was
then transferred to private companies through competitive bidding. The initial
period of the management contract was limited to five years. If a profit could
be realized by the end of each five-year period, then the contract could be
extended up to three more times. The private management companies could
receive a fixed amount, up to 50%, of the profits of the RPCs. The other 55
poorly managed plantations remained under the control of two state-owned
corporations. The plantations which could eventually produce profits were
considered for future transfer of management to the private sector. The ones
which remained unprofitable would be investigpted for future conversion into
other uses, such as forestry.
After the implementation of the program, the management of the RPCs improved
significantly. Transferring maagement to the private sector has made managers
and administrators of the farms clearly conscious of profitability and much
more inclined to operate on a strictly coumercial basis. However, the private
companies were still inexperienced at managing plantations. Most of them
employed the best managers available from the state-owned corporations plus
consultants from abroad for managerial advice. Some private companies also
experimented with structural changes, such as reducing the size of the head
office and combining site management offices.
Some improvements in productivity were reported. As a result of strengthening
the management of production, labor productivity was increased. In one rubber
plantation, for example, the number of rubber trees handled per worker increased
from 250 to 300.
Fertilization methods were improved. Under the management of state-owned
corporations, every plantation had used the soen fertilizer. After transferring
management to the private sector, however, each farm conducted field tests and
used the fertilizer recommended by the test results, thereby improving soil
conditions and productivity. Also, during the processing of tea or rubber at
the factories, a better quality product was produced by strengthening process
management. Production costs were reduced by increasing the rate of capacity
utilization.
Changes in marketing were also apparent.  In the past,. tea was mostly sold
through domestic brokers at the auction in Colombo. After management
privatization, however, various channels for selling tea, such as directly



43                        ANNEX 3
selling to foreign buyers or selling at the London auction, were used to
increase profitability.
Although there have been a number of improvements in the public plantation
sector, many problems still remain. Since their creation in June 1992, most
RPCs have been operating at a loss. A few contributing factors are as follows:
a) a decline in the production of tea and rubber as a result of the long drought
of 1992; b) the depressed price of tea caused by a world-wide oversupply; and
c) low productivity due to the lack of maintenance of farm or on-farm
facilities. These factors were affecting the sector even before the transfer of
management, and were to some extent beyond the immediate control of the RPCs
and GOSL. However, there were other factors contributing to the deficit for
which GOSL and the RPCs were solely responsible. At the end of 1992, before
local government elections, the national government of Sri Lanka decided to
unilaterally raise the wages of plantation workers. This decision was made
without respect to any correspondent increase in plantation productivity and
without the usual guidance of a wage committee. This unreasonable intervention
by the government in the management of the RPCs increased production costs
overall and raised the cost of labor to 70% of total production cost.
A further complication was that the contract between the government of Sri Lanka
and the private companies was renewable only if there was a profit by the end
of each five-year period. This condition, which was difficult to meet because
of a drought and the rise in wages, forced the private management companies to
run the RPCs with a short-term view. Investments in tea and rubber
transplanting were avoided in the interest of short-term profits. It was
nearly impossible for private companies to implement any investment plans based
on a long-term view. For this reason, it eventually became necessary to extend
the period of the management contracts.
Currently, the private management companies get a share of any profits, but the
ownership of RPC assets remains with the government. Without property rights,
the private companies cannot mobilize resources by using plantation property as
collateral for loans. They are thus deprived of opportunities to operate the
RPCs more profitably. Since bank loans were always guaranteed by the
government, the management risk associated with borrowing remained with the
government even after the privatization of RPC management. To summarize, the
discrepancy between management risks and management rights hindered the
effective and efficient management of the RPCs and imposed a continued
financial burden on the government.



44                          ANNEX 3
The government of Sri Lanka issued debentures (5 years at 15%) to mobilize
resources from pension funds and national savings banks in response to the
plantation sector's demand for investment capital. However, the demand was not
fully met because the issue was limited to 60 million rupees (approximately Y120
million) per company. Since the market for long-term financing is
underdeveloped in Sri Lanka, additional means should be examined for supplyling
the plantation sector with long-term funds at reasonable rates.
An additional problem which remains unsolved since the transfer of management to
private companies in June 1992 is that of an excessively large labor force
overall combined with restrictions on mobility between plantations. This
results in excessive variation in the supply and demand for labor at different
plantations, obliging private management companies to utilize labor
inefficiently while bearing excessive labor costs.
6. Privatization of the Public Bus Sector
The Sri Lankan cabinet approved the privatization of the Central Transportation
Board (CTB) in June 1990. This approval resulted in the creation of about 80
bus companies from existing depots. These private companies, with an average
fleet size not exceeding 100, were authorized to decide transport fares, wages,
and their own recruiting plans. In addition to these bus companies, other
facilities such as workshops and driving schools formerly owned by CTB were
also privatized. Personnel costs were expected to fall because 26,000 CTB
staff members out of a total of 52,000 voluntarily retired under a retrenchment
plan for surplus staff.- As a result of the plan, the number of staff per bus
declined from 13 to 7.
In November 1991, the National Transport-Commission (NTC) was established to
regulate and supervise the bus market. The NTC is responsible for issuing
route licenses, creating new safety standards, and advising on service
improvement. Bus fares were deregulated. Uneconomic routes were kept in
operation only if they were deemed socially necessary. These routes are
subsidized, with the amount of subsidy determined by bidding among the private
bus companies.
The privatization of the bus sector brought several improvements.  First, the- -
rate of operation improved from under 50% in 1989 to 67% in 1993. This increase
is the result of the following three factors: 1) an increase in the number of



ANNEX 3
busses (each' bus company purchased an average of 9.3 new buses through a
combination of self financing, lease financing, and bank financing); 2) changes
in the procurement procedures for spare parts (before privatization, spare parts
had to be procured through lengthy procedures from the depot in Werahera
whereas after privatization they could procure spare parts freely); and 3)
strengthening of the workshops' capability to perform their own repairs by
updating and purchasing equipment.
Second, a survey conducted by OECF indicated that almost half of the bus
companies have achieved higher sales, both per mile and per employee. Reasons
for this include an increase in the number of passengers per mile, the
retrenchment of surplus staff, higher bus fares, and increased sales from new
bus routes approved after privatization. In order to increase sales, the
companies have tried to attract more passengers and to enhance the quality of
service.
Other findings following privatization ar3 as follows: 1) no strikes have been
reported; 2) employee attitudes have improved, especially in companies which
were able to realize a profit or at least explained the benefits of
privatization to their employees; 3) repair time has been shortened by
introducing incentive schemes for drivers and garage staff, including
mechanics; and 4) three companies have been improving their drivers' skills
through programs provided at driving schools.
Despite the improvements stated above, some problems still remain. First, most
of the bus companies are still operating at a loss even after privatization.
Keen competition among bus companies, fueled by the deregulation of bus fares,
makes it difficult to recover operating costs. The major factors causing
excessive operating costs are: 1) employee salaries were raised 30% due to
government intervention; 2) high interest rates; 3) lost revenue from issuing
discount commuter tickets; and 4) the continued operation of uneconomic routes.
Government subsidies are not enough to offset the operating losses of these
companies. In addition, despite the decrease in the number of staff handling
bus operations, most of the private companies still have problems with surplus
staff. The retrenchment of 26,000 employees brought the average number of staff
per bus down from 13 to 7, but the actual numbers range from 3.8 to 13.5. Only
two of the companies are operating in the black.
A second problem of privatization is the deterioration of the public nature of
bus services. Insufficient subsidies and wage increases granted by the



46                       ANNEX 3
government puts pressure on management to reduce certain services. For example,
some companies have stopped operations early in the wmrning and after midnight
in the suburbs of Colombo.
Additional factors contributing to the deterioration in the quality of service
include: 1) excessive number of bus companies, 2) insufficient transfer
services, and 3) irregular operations. The regulatory institutions are
different for companies derived from CTB versus other small privatized bus
companies, with NTC responsible for the former and local government for the
latter.  This situation is not good for competition.  The regulatory framework
needs to be integrated.
In 1991, transfers from the government to CTB accounted for 60% of total current
expenditures. This is a result of the cost of retrenchment during CTB's
restructuring, the cost of operating uneconomic routes, and the cost of
subsidizing discount coamuter tickets. 3ufficient revenue was not generated by
the sale of shares during privatization because 50% of the shares were granted
to employees. When evaluating privatization as a means to reduce budget
deficits, it should be noted that in the short-term it may actually lead to
increased deficits (see table 1).
Table 1: Transfer amount to CTB (unit: mil. rupees)
YEAR     1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991
AMOLNT    153  215  312  740  153  1840 3334
"Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Annual Report"
7. Privatization of Public Manufacturing Enterprises under ERC
Privatization of public manufacturing enterprises began in 1989. Twenty
additional enterprises were privatizated with the World Bank's assistance. By
September 1993, a total of 32 public manufacturing enterprises had been
privatized.
Many of the enterprises which had been privatized during the initial
transformation stage performed well because they had also been strong



47                   ANNEX 3
performers before 1989.  For example, United Motors had sales of 260 million
rupees in 1988, before it was privatized. By 1991, after privatization, sales
had increased 170% to 440 million rupees. Ceylon Oxygen's sales increased six-
fold, from 140 million rupees to 830 million rupees.
The enterprises which showed improved performance after privatization had, for
the most part, a capable management team with both international business
experience and close familiarity with local circumstances, politics, labor
relations, etc. Local knowledge was particularly essential for managing the
retrenchment process. Enterprises which frequently sent management directly to
the work site, in order to improve the working environment and the morale of
the workers, were able to adopt new technology and achieve higher productivity.
In the cases where those acquiring export-oriented enterprises had substantial
international business experience, the transition proceeded smoothly.
Thirty-eight targeted public manufacturing enterprises have yet to be privatized.
The reasons for delay include: 1) excessive personnel and accumulated debt, 2)
overevaluation of the company's assets, 3) the weakness of related industries,
and 4) weakness of the implementing body for privatization which was slow in
completing asset ratings. These factors made the remaining enterprises less
attractive to potential investors.
Many public enterprises had hired excessive numbers of workers for political
reasons, dating back to the presidential elections of 1977.  Personnel
reductions were therefore needed before privatization. The guidelines for labor
force reduction set by the Department of Commercialization of the Ministry of
Finance were very vague.  They stated only that the labor force of an
enterprise should be reduced to the level which would enable privatization.
Although the amoumt of subsidy per person was established, it was not clear how
much the government would be willing to pay overall and for how many people.
Furthermore, it usually took the government a long time to pay because it
depended on the irregular financial situation of the national government.
The guidelines of the Department of Comercialization for reducing bad debt were
also vague. They stated that "the debt will be reduced to the level enabling
privatization." The guidelines do not indicate any clear standard for
determining the amount of debt to be compensated. The expenditure needed to
reduce the debt was basicaLLy compensated by the government, however, the
criteria and the period of the subsidy were not clear. In addition, since
there were various creditors, including national banks, private banks, and



48                   ANNEX 3
others, it took a very long time to negotiate the debt. Finally, high domestic
interest rates have imposed a heavy debt service burden on each public
enterprise.
Enterprises whose assets have become obsolete from lack of investment need to
make new investments in order to recover their competitive power. In Sri Lanka,
however, it Is difficult for enterprises to raise the necessary funds because
the long-term financial market is underdeveloped and short-term interest rates
exceed 20%. It therefore become necessary to find alternative ways to satisfy
the demand for investment financing. Long-term credit institutions such as the
National Development Bank (NDB) and the Development Finance Corporation of
Ceylon (DFCC), are required to introduce long-term financing scheme for
enterprises which were part of the privatization program.
8. Conclusion
Earlier sections of this report reviewed tne experience of privatization of the
public plantation sector, the public bus sector, and public manufacturing
enterprises, focussing on changes in performance before and after transformation.
Our analysis found that privatized enterprises succeeded in becoming
commercially oriented, productivity and customer service improved, and their
management became more efficient in response to the pressure to show a profit.
However, some problems related to privatization were also uncovered. One
problem was the decision by government to raise wages unilaterally without the
formal procedures usually followed by a wage committee preceding such a policy
change. Such unreasonable intervention by the government after the
privatization of state enterprises resulted in personnel cost increases and
severe financial stress.
Some privatized bus companies eliminated early morning and night transportation
services in response to government-ordered wage Increases and Insufficient
subsidy payments by the government. Public needs could not always be met by
the private bus companies and bus services were cut for some residents of
suburban Colombo.
Another problem was that the implementing body for privatization of public
manufacturing enterprises& wa  weak.-- Comparative studies and research were not--
adequately carried out prior to transformation, with the result that
privatization was not adjusted to long-term industrial development policy but



49                      ANNEX 3
was implemented only according to the order of an enterprise's readiness for
transformation.
Many of the privatized enterprises needed funds for new investment in fixed
assets.  The long-term financial market, however, was underdeveloped.  This made
it difficult for companies to raise long-term funds. Facilities for providing
long-term financing to privatized enterprises need to be available through
financial institutions. In the case of public plantations, financing was
guranteed by the government.
The bus privatization failed to generate income from the sale of shares which,
combined with the costs of retrenchment and subsidies for commuter tickets and
uneconomic routes, imposed a considerable burden on the national budget.
Under the next phase of the program, even lower sales of shares are expected
because less profitable enterprises will be privatized and a larger amount of
current transfer expenditures will be needed for restructuring. Hence, it will
not be feasible to implement the next phase in the same way and at the same
speed as previously. A more practical and feasible schedule should be devised.
The major lesson learned from observing Sri Lanka's experience with
privatization is that there should be more careful assessment of existing
economic and financial market conditions and the policies for their development.
Long-term industrial development policies and policies for the development of
financial markets are essential for successful privatization in developing
countries.
(end of documernt)
..A



50
ANNEX4
Aide-Memoire (July 14, 1995)
Public Manufacturing Enterprisc Adjustment Credit
Economic Restructuring Credit
Discussion of Implementation Completion Report
1.    This records the discussion between Sri Lankan government officials (Messrs.
Jarnayaha, Modideen, Pandita, Ramanujan and Seneviratne) and World Bank staff (Mr.
Alba) on the draft ICR of the above credits. Overall, officials agreed with the main
conclusions of the ICR regarding the successes and failures of the two credits, and the
lessons learned. In addition, the following specific points were raised.
2.    Overall Rating. Officials agreed with the satisfactory rating for both credits. The
credits supported the implementation of important structural reforms that contributed
significantly to the sustained improvement in dhe economy's growth performance during
1989-94. This key point gets somewhat lost in the details and critiques, and needs to be
made more forcefully in the ICR.
3.    PMEAC. Officials criticized the credit for insufficient preparatory work on key
implementation, procedures for valuing public enterprises, and privatization techniques,
and on ensuring adequate competition after piivatization. Such preparation would have
improved the implementation of the government's overall privatization program. And if
these aspects had been emphasized more, perhaps some of the questions that have
recently emerged regarding the transparency of certain privatization deals (in sectors not
covered by the credit) could have been avoided.
4.    Officials also suggested that the ICR review more thoroughly the failed attempt to
improve the performance and monitoring of public enterprises through the PIMB. In this
regard, officials suggested that the design of PIMB was flawed by not clarifying
overlapping oversight responsibilities of line ministries and the PIMB, which was
attached to the Ministry of Finance.
5.    Finally on PMEAC, officials suggested that the strong performance and focus of
the unit set-up in the Ministry of Industries to monitor implementation contributed
significantly to the success of the credit.
6.    ER(C. While officials agreed with the draft ICR that implementation was hurt by
the complexity of the program supported by the credit, they were uncertain whether this
was the most important reason. Design problems and lack of adequate ownership of
particular components of the program are perhaps just as important. In any case, officials
pointed out that the size of the program reflected the number and diversity of structural
constraints that needed to be overcome. All components of the ERC program were



51                               ANNEX4
important, and even with the benefit of hindsight, it is not clear what could have been
postponed without compromising the growth impact and sustainability of the program.
7.    The meeting spent some time discussing the civil service reform program and its
failure. Officials agreed with the ICR that a more gradual approach, concentration first
on institutions whose functions had been eroded by the liberalization program, would
have been more successful. They also suggested that, in the institutions under review,
packages should have only been offered to services with over employment (e.g., typists,
etc.), rather than across the board. Another issue was the weak monitoring capacity of the
government, which could only take corrective measures after a long delay. Finally, the
civil service reform was discussed almost exclusively with the central ministries, and
other government institutions did not fully understand the need to reduce staff and
positions.
8.    However, officials were uncertain abut the proposal made in the ICR to ensure
government commitment through a wide ranging public discussion of the reform
program. They had doubts both on the ability and desirability of the Bank to insist on
such discussions, if that is what was meant in the ICR.
9.    Government Reports. Officials informed Mr. Alba that the government's written
evaluation of the two credit would be completed as soon as possible.









a









