                                       Documentof
                                   TheWorldBank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                     ReportNo: 39120-GY



                         PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                          ON A

                           PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE

                        GLOBALENVIRONMENTFACILITY
                         SPECIAL CLIMATE CHANGEFUND

                                  INTHE AMOUNT OF

                                    US$3.8 MILLION
                           TO THE REPUBLICOF GUYANA


                                          FOR A

                     CONSERVANCY ADAPTATION PROJECT


                                   September 19,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
CaribbeanCountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
WorldBankauthorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective September 2007)


                               Currency Unit = Guyana Dollars
                                       U S $ l = GY$203
                                    US$.OOS = GY$1

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1    - December31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


 A-OGCM     Atmospheric - Ocean General Circulation Model
 CAP        Conservancy Adaptation Project
 CARICOM    Caribbean Communitv
 CAS       1Country Assistance Strategy
  cccc      Community Climate Change Center
I CDC     IICivil Defense Commission                                          I
  CIDA      Canadian InternationalDevelopmentAgency
  CPACC     Caribbean Project on Planning for Adaptation to Climate Change
  CQS       Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications
  DEM       Digital ElevationModel
  DfID      United Kingdom's Department for International Development




  IDB       Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
  IPCC      Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change
  IS        Implementation Secretariat
  LCS       Least-Cost Selection
  LIDAR     LightDetectionandRanging
  MOA       GuyaneseMinistryof Agriculture

                                                                     FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                       Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                                     Country Director:     Caroline D.Anstey
                                       Sector Director     Laura Tuck
                                Acting Sector Manager:     David N.Sislen
                                    Task Team Leader:      Francis Ghesquiere




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                  REPUBLICOF GUYANA
                                  CONSERVANCYADAPTATION PROJECT

                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE..........................................................................                                        1
   a. Country andSector Issues                                                                                                                      1
   b Rationalefor Bank involvement
    ..Higher                               .......................................................................................................
                                                      ............................................................................................. 8

I1 PROJECTDESCRIPTION........................................................................................................
  .c.         level objectives to which the projectcontributes ........................................................                             8

                                   ............................................................................................................... 99

   b.Projectdevelopmentobjective andkey indicators..................................................................
   a Financing Instrument
                                                                                                                                                    9
   c ProjectComponents
    .                            ...............................................................................................................
                                                                              ....................................................................  10
                                                                                                                                                    11
   e. Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection.,
   d.Lessons learnedandreflectedinproject design                                    ............................................................... 12
I11..IMPLEMENTATION.............................................................................................................                    12

   b. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements....................................................................
   a Partnership arrangements             ......................................................................................................    12
                                                                                                                                                    12
   c Monitoring and evaluationof outcomeshesults                                                                                                    13
   d SustainabilityandReplicability
    ..                                                                        ....................................................................
                                                     ............................................................................................   14
   e. Critical risks andpossiblecontroversial aspects
    .                                                                          ...................................................................  15
                                                                                                                                                    16
IV.APPRAISAL SUMMARY
   f GrantConditions....................................................................................................................
                                            .....................................................................................................   16
   a. Economicanalyses
   b             ............................................................................................................................... 17
   c.Fiduciary
    .Technical................................................................................................................................
                                ................................................................................................................    16


   d Social.....................................................................................................................................    18

   e EnvironmentalManagement .................................................................................................
   f Safeguardpolicies
   g.Policy Exceptionsandreadiness...........................................................................................
    ...                                                                                                                                             18
                                                                                                                                                    19
                              .................................................................................................................. 21
ANNEX 1:COUNTRY AND SECTORBACKGROUND .........................................................                                                      22

ANNEX 2: MAJOR RELATED PROJECTSFINANCED BY THE BANK..............................                                                                   23

ANNEX 3: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING...................................................                                                        26
                                                                                                                                                    27
ANNEX 4: DETAILEDPROJECTDESCRIPTION                                             ...................................................................
ANNEX 5: PROJECT COSTS .....................................................................................................                        34

ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS ..............................................................                                                  45


ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENT......................................................................................................
ANNEX 7: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT & DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS...........46                                                                               48

ANNEX 9: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS..........................................................................................                                50

ANNEX 10: SAFEGUARD POLICY ISSUES............................................................................                                       54

ANNEX 11: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION................................................                                                         56

ANNEX 12:DOCUMENTS INTHE PROJECTFILE................................................................                                                62

ANNEX 13: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS..........................................................                                                  63

ANNEX 14: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE...................................................................................                                    65

ANNEX 15:ADDITIONAL FINANCING..................................................................................                                     66
                                                                                                                                                    69
ANNEX 16: GEF STAPREVIEW                          ...............................................................................................   70

Map IBRD 33416


                                   THE REPUBLICOF GUYANA

                             CONSERVANCY ADAPTATIONPROJECT

                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                               LCSUW

 Date: September 19, 2007                             TeamLeader: Francis Ghesquiere
 Country Director: CarolineD.Anstey                   Sectors: Floodprotection(100%)
  Sector Managermirector: Laura Tuck                  Themes: Naturaldisaster management(P)
 ProjectID: P103539                                   Environmentalscreeningcategory: Partial
 FocalArea: ClimateChange                             Assessment
 LendingInstrument: SpecificInvestmentLoan


                                       ProjectFinancingData
  [ ] Loan   [ ] Credit   [XI Grant [ 3 Guarantee           [ ] Other:

 ForLoans/Credits/Others:US$3.8million
 TotalBank financing:US$3.8 million




  Borrower: TheRepublicof Guyana

  ResponsibleAgency: Ministry of Agriculture
                       Regent & VlissengenRoads
                       Georgetown
                       GUYANA
                       F:+592-227-2978




I Does the projectdepart from the CAS in content or other significantrespects?       [XIY~S [ 1NO I

 Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                                 [ ]Yes [XINO
 Have these been approved by Bank management?
                     - -                                                                     [ ]Yes [XINO
  I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                               [ ]Yes [ ~ ] N O
 Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?                  [XIYes [ ] N o
I Does the uroiect meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor imolementation?               [XlYes  r1No I

  Project development objective

  The objective of the CAP is to reduce the vulnerability of catastrophic flooding in Guyana's low-lying
  coastal area that is currently threatenedby sea level rise resultingfrom global climate change.

  Global Environment objective

  Somewhat different in scope and theme than previous GEF projects, the CAP represents important
  opportunities for learning and future application. The majority of climate change related GEF projects
  have been focused on green house gas emissions abatement and the study of the potential impacts from
  climate change.       These projects often do not involve large infrastructure components aimed at
  strengthening physical assets to help reduce a country's vulnerability to intense climatic events. Yet
  infrastructure is a critical sector to consider when implementing adaptation measures to better cope with
  the effects of climate change. Structures that were not built to withstand the affects of climate change
  will suffer damages, and costly losses will follow. Shifting the focus of the GEF Adaptation Program to
  the development and implementation of adaptive measures to strengthen infrastructure will increase the
  program's robustness and effectiveness.

  Like other low-lying coastal countries, Guyana i s highly vulnerable to sea level rise and changes in
  rainfall patterns. Heightened sea levels and more intense rain events increase the vulnerability of low-
  lying coastal countries to severe flooding. Drainage and irrigation systems that were constructed over a
  hundredyears ago were not designed to cope with these rapidly evolving threats. The project would serve
  as a template that could be applied to countries with similar geographical attributes and aims to raise
  awareness to promote the worldwide application of physical infrastructure upgrades to reduce
  vulnerabilities brought on by climate change.

  Project description

  The project will finance the development of the technical foundation for a master plan of future
  interventions within the East Demerara Water Conservancy (EDWC) and lowland drainage systems, as
  well as specific upgrading works and operational improvements aimed at enhancing the flood control
  capacity of the EDWC. The tools developed under the analytical component will be used by the GoG and
  donor agencies to guide future investments.

  Component 1 - Pre-investment studies for engineering design of works (US$2.0 mil from GEF SCCF):
  The objective of this component is to provide the hydrologic baseline necessary for contemplating
  rational interventionsaimed at increasing the current discharge capacity of the flood control system.

  Comuonent 2 - Investments in suecific adautation measures (US$ 2.9 mil; US1.7 mil from GEF SCCF,
  and $1.2 million Government of Guyana): The objective of this component is to counteract the effects of
  sea level rise, which has decreased the GoG's ability to manage water levels of the EDWC system. The
  investments will improve the ability of the Government to manage water levels behind the EDWC dam
  duringheavy rains by improving internalwater flows inthe EDWC and increasing EDWC drainage relief
  capacity to the Demerara River and eventually the Atlantic Ocean.            Based on analytical outputs,
  additional uugradine of water control structures will also be undertaken.

Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening and Proiect Management (US$O.1 mil from GEF SCCF): The
objective of this component is to strengthen the institutional framework for flood control within the
context of the national emergency management sector headed by the Civil Defense Commission. The
project will also support an institutional consolidationof flood control in Guyana to help create consensus
around a medium and long term intervention strategy to help the country adapt to sea level rise.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any?

Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

The project will trigger; (a) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4-01), (b) Natural Habitats (OP/BP
4-04),(c) Forests (OP/BP 4.36), and (d) Safety of Dams OP/BP4.37).

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:

Grant effectiveness

        a) The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient has been duly
        authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action.
        b) The Memorandumof Understanding has been executed by all of the parties thereto.
        c) The Operational Manual has been approved by the World Bank and adopted by the Recipient.


I.STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE

a. Country and Sector Issues

Introduction

Over three-quarters of the Guyanese population live in a 30 kilometer band along the Atlantic
coast. This i s an area of reclaimed lands, much of it below the regional mean sea level, situated
between a water storage basin and a protective seawall complex. The coastal zone is transected by
a dense network of drainage and irrigation canals. This network of canals links up with the East
Demerara Water Conservancy (EDWC), a water storage system that provides regional
agricultural lands and urban areas with irrigation and drinking water. During times of heavy
rainfall this system functions as a regional drainage and flood control mechanism.

Present rates of sea level rise associatedwith global climate change pose a significant threat to the
country and its economy. Recent flooding demonstrated the increased vulnerabilities of the
existing drainage system and shortcomings in the current infrastructure. This project has been
developed to guide a comprehensive upgrading program of the EDWC and lowland drainage
system, aimed at increasing discharge capacity and improving water level management. The
project will also provide a technical framework for future donor intervention in the drainage and
irrigation sector. In addition to developing the technical baseline for adaptation measures, the
project will include some small infrastructure improvements to help cope with the immediate
threats to the drainage system.

Global Climate Change

The 2001 Third Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC)
concludedthat with the continuing emission of greenhouse gases (GHG), the global mean surface
temperature may increase between 1.5 and 5.8 degrees Celsius over the next 100 years.
Documentation being used inthe preparation of the Fourth Assessment Report, due to be released
during 2007, corroborates the range of the projected temperature increase. A change of this
magnitude is unprecedented and will result in significant impacts on a global scale. These will
manifest in the form of increases in sea level and modifications to global and regional weather
patterns.

Climate Change in Guyana

Sea Level Rise While sea levels are rising worldwide at a rate of 2-4 mdyear, Guyana's United
                -
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Initial National Communications
Report (2002) and the Guyana National Vulnerability Assessment (2002) forecast a more severe
impact locally. Analysis of tide gauge records from 1951 to 1979 shows the trend in sea level
rise for Guyana to be in excess of 10 mdyear, which impliesa net change in sea level of 0.9 feet
over the 28 year period examined. If one assumes the rate to be constant to date, the net change
in sea level from 1951to 2005 is estimated at 1.8 feet. This projection is consistent with the work
conducted by Douglas (1995) and Smith et a1 (1999) which indicates that sea level in the region
of Guyana i s increasing at a rate of more than 10 mdyear - or 2 to 5 times faster than the global
estimate. This is corroborated by the estimates presented by Singh (1997) in his work on
neighboring Trinidad and Tobago, which finds sea level rise in the Caribbean to be significantly
higher than the globally observed levels.



                                                  1

Using the commonly accepted Atmospheric - Ocean General Circulation Model (A-0 GCM)
approachto analyze future sea level changes, the forecast rise of the mean sea level, ignoring melt
water runoff from land areas, is projected to be 40 cm by the end of the 21st century. The
analysis of local tide gauge data suggests greater increases in mean sea level in Guyana. The rate
of sea level rise will continue to be tracked through a network of monitoring stations employing
geo-referenced tide gauges. This network was funded under the GEF financed Caribbean Project
on Planning for Adaptation to Climate Change (CPACC), whose objective was to support
Caribbean countries inpreparingto cope with the adverse effects of global climate change.

Decrease in Average Rainfall; Increase in Rainfall Intensity     -Concerningrainfall patterns,the
Initial National Communications Report and the National Vulnerability Assessment (2002)
presented evidence that, since 1960, there has been a tendency for below normal rainfall, as well
as an increase in intensity of rainfall events. To forecast future trends, both studies employed the
(A-OGCM) of the Canadian Climate Centre (CGCM 1) to develop predictions of rainfall,
temperature, evaporation and water deficit basedon a doubling of COzconcentrations. Under this
scenario, temperature is expected to rise by an average of 1.2"C in the period 2020 to 2040 from
the present. Increases in excess of 1.5"C are expected in southern Guyana in the Second Dry
Season (August to October). Rainfall i s expected to decrease by an average of 10 mm per month
butthe decrease inthe FirstWet Season and SecondDry Season (May to October) will be 12mm
per month or higher.

Estimates from climate models developed by the United Kingdom's Meteorological Office's
Hadley Centre, support the prediction that Guyana will experience a general drying trend. Infact
these models predict that Guyana will be among the most affected countries in the world, with
average precipitation decreasing by roughly 1 mdday by 2050. A drying trend of this nature
would lead to not only increased intensity of rainfall events, but also to a greater reliance on the
EDWC water storage system during dry seasons. To meet this need, water storage levels within
the EDWC would have to be maintained as high as possible in order to support agriculture and
urban centers on the coastal plain. This increases the importance of effective water level
management within the EDWC system, placing an even greater emphasis on rapid response to
water level changes within the system to meet demand and system safety requirements.

Guyana Coastal Drainage and FloodControl

Guyana's drainage and irrigation system has its origins during the Dutch colonial period
beginning in the late 1600's. Land reclamation began under their tender and continued through
the Britishcolonial perioduntilGuyana gained independence on May 26, 1966.

The country's coastal zone consists of a low-lying system of marine and riverine deposits which
formerly comprised an extensive network of tidal deltas. Much of the land now in use in northern
Guyana lies in this coastal zone below the mean high tide level of around 54 ft Guyana Datum
(GD), as shown inFigure 1. This land was reclaimed from tidal areas, beginning inthe 1600's by
the Dutch, and is protected by an intricate network of seawalls, dykes, polders and drainage
structures, including the EDWC system. Guyana's agrarian economy, which accounts for over 35
percent of GDP, is highly dependent on this coastal drainage and irrigation system that, among
other benefits, provides flood control and allows for bi-annual harvests of their principal crops,
rice and sugar.

Human settlement and infrastructure is concentrated in the reclaimed coastal plain where
approximately 75 percent of the nation's population resides. The population is distributed in
locations determined by the availability of suitable land for housing and services. The areas of


                                                  2

  the Essequibo Islands - West Demerara (Region 3), Demerara - Mahaica (Region 4) and the
  Mahaica - Berbice (Region 5) are the most densely populated areas, with the majority of
  Guyana's citizens located in Region 4. The highest population densities are found in the vicinity
  of the capital, Georgetown, and adjoining areas.

  Drainage during rainfall events has been managed through the use of a gravity based system
  augmented with pumps. This system is under increasing stress and i s suffering from the impacts
  of sea level rise. Specifically, as sea level rises, the discharge window from low tide to meantide
  is shrinking.The maximum safe operating level of the EDWC was about five feet above the peak
  1951 sea level, which left a narrow operating window for emergency discharges during heavy
  rains. This maximum discharge level has closed to within three feet since that time. As the sea
  level continues to rise and the discharge window continues to shrink, the ability to manage water
  levels is further compromised.

  Today's problems stem from the fact that the coastal drainage and irrigation systems in Guyana
  were largely constructed some 150 years ago. The additional stress to the EDWC system
  resulting from sea level rise, increases concern for the possible collapse of the EDWC. If the
  discharge flow is not improved, and the EDWC continues to be managed without regard for
  climate change related sea level rise, storm events will increasingly overcome the ability to
  release excess water from the system. This is because the period available to discharge excess
  water will continue to shrink. Taking no action will ultimately result in the failure of the EDWC
  due to overtopping and breach of the system's levees.

  Considering the accumulated and expected impact of sea level rise, the current ad-hoc approach
  to flood control is no longer viable. It is also clear that any program to strengthen and upgrade
  the system will have to take into account the impact of climate change. Given the forecast
  impacts of sea level rise, the risk of future flooding, even during normal weather events, is
  increasing annually. It is therefore urgent that the Government of Guyana (GoG) and the donor
  community embark on a comprehensive program to strengthen the current system. This project is
  the first step in this process.

                Systemand CoastalPlain
               stem includes: i)a reservoir, fronted by an earthe   am; ii)drainage channels, used to release
                m the reservoir during the rainy season; and iii) twork of canals, used to providedrinking
water and irrigation during the dry seasons. Because of this system, Guyanese farmers are able to realize two
harvestsof sugar cane andrice annually.

The drainage relief structures were created to protect the EDWC dam from overtopping and collapsingduring
rainy seasons. Relief canals were constructedfrom the EDWC west towards the DemeraraRiver, east towards
the Mahaica River and north towards the Atlantic Ocean. A network of creeks was also created within the




                                                                             d discharge window available to


                                                                                          ntrol network, At




                                                       3

  65.00 -                     (Prepared from: UNFCCC InitialNational Communications
                                (2002) and RoyalHaskoning, Delft Hydraulics Leveling
                                                          Report)                               COASTAL
                                                                                               TIDE LEVELS
                                                                      Seawall Georgetown
             Dam Crest
  60.00         I


                  Dam Operating Max                                                    Highest AstronomicalTide
                                                                                                      3          1.7Feet
  55.00 -                                                                                               t
0               m
0
L           Dam Operating Min                                                                            I
                                                                                                         I
0)
LL                                                                                                          Est. 1951
  50.00 --   EDWC DAM
              LEVELS

                                                            Clonbrook                                   4I
                                                                                                         I



  40.00 1
        Figure 1 illustrates that the differencein elevationbetween the water level of the EDWC at representative
        locations and tide levels is a matter of a few feet. Towns such as Mon Repose and Clonbrook occupy
        elevationsbelowboththe minimumoperatinglevel of the EDWC and the meanhigh water spring tide level
        of 54.99 feet GD. Without a properly functioningdrainage system, these towns and many others-including
        the capital-wouldnot be able to survive.

                   on4 FloodControlSystem
                      agement system inRegion4 andRe                              f two separateelements. Drinking
                                                                                 indthe EDWC dam. Inthe coastal
                                                                                       of canals manages water for


     EastDemeraraWater Conservancy
     One of the major water conservancy systems in Guyana i s the EDWC. The EDWC is a freshwater
                      located in Region 4, 15 miles south of the most densely populated section
                     unda%thenoi?ii-by        a 40 m%-eahhend%m-&GTure         buTtsome 158yeais-
                     natural topographic rise composed largely of ancient coastal dune formations. The area
                     impoundment of approximately 550 hectares and ranges indepth from 12 to approximately
      15 feet along the dam.

     The EDWC Dam is variously constructedof clay, earth and organic material (pegasse), dependingon the
                          A series of drainage relief structures were constructedto protect the EDWC dam from
                          collapse during rainy seasons.                        constructed from the EDWC west
                         erara River and north towards th                                  of creeks was also created
                 Conservancy to conduct water from east to                             crease discharge flows to the
                   iver. Canals connectingeast to the Mahaica                              to conduct water from the



                                                            4

                                                                      flood  -thisis a direct


           cy relief canals are
increases in sea level have great


integrity of an already vulnerable system. Dam creep is particularly evident along the north-eastern
portion, where pegassewas the principal material of construction.

PopulatedCoastalLowlands of Region4
Apart from the issue of the EDWC, the inhabited coastallowlands presentan additional set of challenges.
Floodin                                    e majority of Guyana's population lives along this reclaimed
coastal                                    most agricultural activities are located. Unmanagedregional
development has exacerbated the flood control problem as development has altered or interdicted water
control systems without a sound understandingof the systemic impacts of these changes. Inmany cases,
activities such as backfilling canals and cuts in the levies have changed the functional dynamics of the
system.

                                                                          ctures have been constructed,




hoc system of flood control i s no longer effective. There are severe limitations in the ability to prevent
flooding and manage flood waters and the impact of land-use changes has clearly damaged the flood
control drainage infrastructure. At present, flood control i s managed on an emergency basis and control
efforts focused on responding to immediate needs rather than the development of long-term control
strategies.




                                                    5

Map 1 EDWC and Region4
     -




                          6

Government Constraints

The floods of 2005 and 2006 highlighted the significance of the risks posed by the weakened
containment and drainage capacities of the EDWC system. After the January 2005 floods, the
authorities demonstrated only modest commitment to recommendations made in early 2005 to
open five blocked relief canals and implement a long-term upgrading strategy.             Within a
constrained public finance framework, action was not taken because it was argued, and widely
believed, that the January 2005 floods were a once in a thousand year event. Calculations leading
to that conclusion have since been called into question. As flooding occurred again the following
year, the GoG and the international community recognized flood management to be crucial to
Guyana's economic, social and political well-being.

Global Environmental Facilitv Eligibility

Guyana ratified the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change on August 29, 1994 and
entered the agreement on November 27, 1994.            Guyana is in conformity with the GEF's
eligibility criteria as determined by the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change. Article 4.1 (e) of the Convention recognizes the importance of
adaptation in the context of disasters, stating, "All Parties shall `Cooperate in preparing for
adaptation to the impacts of climate change; develop and elaborate appropriate and integrated
plans for coastal zone management, water resources and agriculture, and for the protection and
rehabilitation of areas, particularly in Africa, affected by drought and desertification, as well as
floods."'  The project aims to increase the GoG's understanding of the dynamics of the EDWC
system in an effort to reduce the vulnerability of catastrophic flooding in the country's low-lying
costal areas.

To meet funding eligibility requirements for the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF), in
accordance to the ninth session of the Conference of Parties, the project should: a) address the
adverse impacts of climate change; b) serve as a catalyst to leverage additional resources from
bilateral and other multilateral sources; c) be country-driven, cost-effective and integrated into
national sustainable development and poverty-reduction strategies; and d) include technology
transfer and its associatedcapacity buildingactivities.

The project responds to the four criteria established by the SCCF and increases Guyana's ability
to adapt to the regional impacts from climatic changes as follows:

         by implementing adaptation measures, including upgrading the capacity to manage water
         levels in the EDWC system, the project will reduce Guyana's coastal vulnerability to sea
         level rise;
         GEF financing under the SCCF window will play a catalytic role in attracting and
         underpinning additional investments to climate proof Guyana's Conservancy.             The
         project has been designed in close collaboration with the donor community which is
         awaiting preliminary results to guide future interventions that will benefit directly from
         this GEFproject.
         the project has been developed at the request, and in close coordination with the
         Guyanese authorities. It builds on the Government's Initial National Communications
         (2002), the Guyana National Vulnerability Assessment (2002), and the IntegratedCoastal
         Zone Management (ICZM) Action Plan (2000);
         the project will increase the GoG's understanding of EDWC system and coastal lowland
         regimes. Hydraulic engineers will be trained in the use of flow model technology to


                                                  7

         better plan follow-on interventions. The model applied here can be easily replicated in
         all the coastal countries of the region.

b. Rationalefor Bank involvement

The World Bank has been assisting the GoG in the identification of a project to reduce the
vulnerability of the country since the dramatic floods of January 2005. Over the past 24 months
the World Bank has been working in close collaboration with the National Drainage and
Irrigation Authority (NDIA) to identify sources of repetitive flooding affecting the country in
recent years. This work has been done with the involvement of the Sea and River Defense
Division, Ministry of Works and the Lands and Surveys Commission and includedconsultation
with the Office of the President, the Guyana Environmental Protection Agency; the Ministry of
Finance; Conservation International, the Citizens Defense Initiative, and the Civil Defense
Council.

Duringeach visit, the World Bank presented the result of its findings and sought feedback from
the donor community in Guyana, including the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB),
European Union (EU), United Nations Development Program (UNDP), United Kingdom's
Department for International Development (DfID), Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). A thematic
group on flood control was proposed inJune 2006 and should mobilize shortly. InJune 2006, the
donor community agreed to work jointly with the GoG to develop a comprehensive strategy to
assist the government in increasing the drainage capacity of the country's water control systems,
particularly the EDWC. The proposed GEF SCCF Conservancy Adaptation Project (CAP) will
support this approach by providing donors with pre-identified works to increase drainage capacity
of the EDWC and atool to identify future interventions.

The CAP was not included in the last Guyana Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was
issuedon May 17,2002. However, the dramatic floods of 2005 and 2006 have shown the needfor
serious intervention. Strengthening the EDWC system i s now a top priority of the GoG, which
has requested World Bank assistance in accessing GEF resources and in supporting its effort to
work with the donor community in the development of a comprehensive strategy to adapt the
EDWC to the impact of sea level rise.

c. Higher level objectivesto which the project contributes

Somewhat different in scope and theme compared to previous GEF projects, the CAP represents
important opportunities for learning and future application. The majority of climate change
related GEF projects have focused on green house gas emissions abatement and the study of the
potential impacts from climate change. These projects often do not involve large infrastructure
components aimed at strengthening physical assets to help reduce a country's vulnerability to
climate change events. Yet infrastructure is a critical sector to consider when implementing
adaptation measures to better cope with the effects of climate change. Structures that were not
built to withstand the affects of climate change will suffer damages, and costly losses will follow.
Shifting the focus of the GEF Adaptation Program to the development and implementation of
adaptive measures to strengthen infrastructure will increase the Program's robustness and
effectiveness.

Like other low-lying coastal countries, Guyana i s highly vulnerable to sea level rise and changes
in rainfall patterns. Heightened sea levels and more intense rainevents increase the vulnerability

                                                  8

of low-lying coastal countries to severe flooding. Drainage and irrigation systems that were
constructed over a hundredyears ago were not designed to cope with these evolving threats. The
project would serve as a template that could be applied to countries with similar geographical
attributes and aims to raise awareness to promote the worldwide application of physical
infrastructure upgradesto reduce vulnerabilities brought on by climate change.

In addition to flood control, the EDWC also serves as a source of irrigation storage and provides
drinking water supply for a substantial portion of the Guyanese population. An improved
understanding of the drainage regimes within the EDWC should lead to the development of more
effective water use policies, both for irrigation and drinking. Land use planning and urban
development outside the EDWC, which have been adversely affected due to the changing flood
control environment, will also benefit as integrated development strategies and flood management
planning will combine to offer improvements to long-term development planning.



11.PROJECTDESCRIPTION

a. FinancingInstrument

The Climate Convention guidance to the GEF on adaptation has evolved through a series of
staged approaches. Originally, the GEF supported initial studies, vulnerability and adaptation
assessments, and capacity building. More recently, the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change asked the GEF to support pilot and demonstration projects in the field of
adaptation. Under its strategic priority "Piloting an Operational Approach to Adaptation", the
GEF supports projects that provide real benefits and may be integrated into national policies and
sustainable development planning. In addition, the GEF supports adaptation activities through the
Least DevelopedCountry Fundand the SCCF.

The CAP is to be supported under the SCCF, with emphasis being placed on the reduction of the
countries vulnerability to catastrophic floods through the development of the technical basis for
future physical interventions and the implementation of urgent adaptation measures. The
integration of technology and analytical methods for the design of future interventions under this
project are replicable. The CAP can serve as a demonstration for the development of adaptation
interventions that can be implemented in similar contexts (e.g. delta regions, coastal zones, river
systems) throughout the world. The execution of the project will be coordinated with activities
being developed within CARICOM's Community Climate Change Center (CCCC), currently
implemented through the World BanWGEF.

b. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand key indicators

The objective of the CAP is to reduce the vulnerability of catastrophic flooding in Guyana's low-
lying coastal area that i s currently threatened by sea level rise resulting from global climate
change.

This objective will be achieved through a) strengthening the GoG's and donor understanding of
the EDWC system and coastal plain drainage regimes while identifying key drainage regimes for
follow-on intervention; b) implementing infrastructure investments aimed at increasing the
drainage capacity of the EDWC; c) strengthening institutional capacity of the GoG to manage



                                                  9

water levels in the EDWC and to guide interventions aimed at reducing Guyana's vulnerability to
floods.

At project completion, the following will have been achieved: a) development of a hydraulic
engineering foundation critical for flood control management; b) identification of at least 10 key
drainage regimes for follow-on intervention; c) increase in the drainage relief capacity of the
EDWC to the Demerara River by 35 percent.

c. Project Components

The project will finance the development of the technical foundation for a master plan of future
interventions within the EDWC and lowland drainage systems, as well as specific upgrading
works and operational improvements aimed at enhancing the flood control capacity of the
EDWC. The tools developed under the analytical component of the CAP will be used by the
GoG and donor agencies to guide future investments.

    Component I - Pre-investment studies for engineering design of works (US$2.0 mil from
    GEF): The objective of this component is to provide the hydrologic baseline necessary for
    contemplating rational interventions aimed at increasing the current discharge capacity of the
    flood control system. This objective will be achieved through:

        o Detailed topographic and land use mapping
        o Hydrologic modeling of coastal lowlands
        o Assessment of EDWC system integrity
        o EDWChydraulic modeling
        o Pre-feasibility studiesfor coastal lowland interventions
        o Operationalcapacity building

    The key outcome of these pre-investment studies will be a highresolution topographic model
    of the inhabited coastal plain to be used as the basis for hydrologic analysis of the region
    under current and projectedclimate scenarios. The results from this component will pinpoint
    key areas where interventions will improve the system discharge capacity critical for flood
    zone management. Pre-engineering designs will be completed for a set of prioritized
    interventions.   Specialized staff within the following agencies will be trained in the
    application of the analytical tools produced: NDIA, the Lands and Surveys Commission, the
    Ministry of Works' River and Sea Defense Division, the Guyana Environmental Protection
    Agency and the Civil Defense Commission.

    Component2 - Investments in specific adaptation measures (US$2.9mil - US$I.7 mil from
    GEF and $1.2 million Government of Guyana): The objective of this component is to
    counteract the effects of sea level rise, which has decreased the GoG's ability to manage
    water levels of the EDWC system.         The investments will improve the ability of the
    Government to manage water levels behind the EDWC dam duringheavy rains by improving
    internal water flows in the EDWC and increasing EDWC drainage relief capacity to the
    Demerara River and eventually the Atlantic Ocean. Based on analytical outputs, additional
    upgradingof water control structures will also be undertaken. This objective will be achieved
    through:

        o Widening of key drainage relief canals
        o Improvement of waterflow system within EDWC


                                               10

         o Upgrading of water control structures
         o Selected equipmentpurchase and installation

    By the end of project, activities under this component should result in an increased drainage
    capacity of the EDWC to the Demerara River by roughly 35 percent (the exact figure will be
    finalized during the first year of implementation). The GoG, through the NDIA, will direct
    additional investments in the strengthening of drainage and irrigation infrastructure based on
    the engineering foundationto be developed under Component 1.

    Component3 -Institutional Strengthening and Project Management (US$O.1milfrom GEF):
    The objective of this component is to strengthen the institutional framework for flood control
    within the context of the national emergency management sector headedby the Civil Defense
    Commission. The project will also support an institutional consolidation of flood control in
    Guyana to help create consensus around a medium and long term intervention strategy to help
    the country adapt to sea level rise. This work will center around specific products, including:

         o Contingencyplanforflood events
         o Consolidation offlood control actors
         o Monitoring and evaluation of project progress
         o Project management

Through this component, the Government will be better positioned to respond to flood
emergencies. Moreover, through the Implementation Secretariat, flood control work will begin to
be consolidated in the country, which is expected to lead to greater information sharing and
institutional memory throughout the government.

For a breakdown of project costs by component and subcomponent, please see Annex 5.

d. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinprojectdesign

    Under previous projects, important documentation was lost to accidents and fires. For
    example, after the 2001 national election, the NDIA headquarters was destroyed by fire. To
    prevent similar information losses, all analytical work developed under the project will be
    distributed to three GoG agencies: the NDIA, the Lands and Surveys Commission and the
    Sea and River Defense Division of the Ministry of Works. These agencies will be trained in
    data managementand analysis.

    Project implementation inGuyana often suffers significant procurement delays due to several
    factors, including: i)re-bidding because of poor response; ii)bid costs that are much higher
    than original estimates; iii) inconsistency between some bid-evaluation reports and
    recommendations; iv) the small pool of able contractors; v) system deficiencies (little or no
    penalties for late mobilization, poor quality of work, etc.); and vi) slow decision making at all
    levels of government. Due to the urgent need of implementing project activities, the number
    of tenders under the project will be limited to two, which should limit overall procurement
    delays and attract wider competition.

    Recent projects in Guyana have highlighted several institutional and other basic deficiencies
    affecting the absorptive and implementation capacity of the country. In limiting the number
    of contracts in the project, implementation should be streamlined and in the hands of
    international experts. The World Bank will provide significant support to assist in the

                                                 11

    drafting of Tender Documents and an expert in flood management will be retained by the
    Bank for quality control.

    Earlier attempts have been made to strengthen the capacity of the Hydromet Office, notably
    under the 1998 El Nino Emergency Assistance Project. Under this Bank financed project, 9
    weather stations were installed and located throughout the country. Similar efforts have also
    been madeby other donor agencies. However, highturnover, lack of knowledge and the poor
    physical condition of Hydromet's facilities have reduced its effectiveness substantially. The
    CAP does not contemplate providing any assistance to the Hyrdomet Office because the
    sustainability of such an intervention is judged to be highly unlikely.

e. Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

The limited International Development Association (IDA) 14 allocation for Guyana of US$20
million has already been committed to other projects and therefore the Bank does not have the
resources to finance a project to strengthen the EDWC system. One alternative source of finance
does exist in the form of a US$1 million Japanese Thematic Climate Change Policy and Human
Resource Development (PHRD) Grant which are limited to US$l million. Because of the scope
of the works in Guyana, US$1 million would not be sufficient to make a fundamental impact in
reducing the risks of climate change related to flooding. Thus the GEF SCCF was considered the
bestalternative to address the urgent needs of Guyana.


111.IMPLEMENTATION

a. Partnershiparrangements

The US$3.8 million in GEF SCCF funds will be used to provide the framework necessary to
guide interventions aimed at upgrading the EDWC and inhabited coastal lowlands systems.
Doing so will strengthen the process of reducingthe negative impacts of climate change that have
manifested themselves in the form of extensive flooding over the past two years. The World
Bank has been working very closely with the donor community in Guyana in an effort to promote
greater participation in climate change adaptation activities. These agencies include IDB, UNDP,
DfID,CIDA, USAIDand the EU.

Strong linkages have been made between the Bank and the donor community in order to develop
a comprehensive flood management strategy in coastal Guyana. Tools developed under the
project will be applied by the GoG and the donor community as they work towards implementing
sound infrastructure improvements to reduce flood risks that have materialized as a result of
climatic changes. It is expected that as the process moves forward, additional funds will be made
available for key drainage infrastructure investments that increase the ability to manage water
levels duringtimes of increasingly intense rainfall.

b. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The implementation arrangements for the project are aimed to maximize cost effectiveness,
promote timely execution and ownership, and ensure transparency amongst stakeholders. This
implementation structure will be made of two main components, an Implementation Secretariat
(IS) responsible for project oversight and coordination and a Project Execution Unit (PEU)
responsible for all administrative and fiduciary aspects.          Ultimate authority of project

                                                  12

management lies within the Ministry of Agriculture. The PEU will be responsible for managing
the day to day project implementation and for fulfilling procurement and financial reporting tasks.

Implementation Secretariat

The IS will be formed between several government institutions and will comprise a core IS and
advisors to the IS.   Through the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding, the National
Drainage and Irrigation Authority, Civil Defense Commission, Sea and River Defenses and Lands
and Survey Commission will form the core IS. Advisory members will include the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Housing and Water, Environmental Protection Agency, Hydromet Office
and international donors (who will be observers). The I S will be chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture.

The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture will be the Deputy Chairman of the IS.
Inthis capacity the PS will be responsible for leadingmost IS meetings and for managing its day
to day operations. The Minister of Agriculture will attend IS meetings from time to time, provide
strategic leadership and direction to the IS on all climate change related activities, and, serve as
an advisor and guide to the IS. Issues outside the direct purview of the I S will be referred to the
Minister of Agriculture. An organizational chart of the IS can be found in Annex 6.

The Permanent Secretary of Agriculture will be responsible for convening the IS and for
receiving and reviewing the analytical outputs produced by the engineering firm(s) recruited to
conduct the CAP studies. Once the IS provides its technical review and validates the analytical
outputs, the PEUwill be advised to officially accept the work and issue payment to the contracted
firm.

Proiect ExecutionUnit

The Project Execution Unit housed within the MOA,will manage the fiduciary and administrative
aspects of the project. The PEU is currently being utilized by the IDB for the implementation of
the Agricultural Services Project. In January 2007, a World Bank met with key members of the
PEU and found them to be of satisfactory quality with regard to the implementation of this
project. The PEU will manage the procurement process, including issuance of the tenders,
financial reporting for the project, and will make payments to the contractors, based on
recommendations from the PS of Agriculture and the IS. To simplify the role and responsibilities
of the PEU, project procurement and fiduciary activities have been kept at a minimum and the
project will be reduced to a minimum of tenders (around 2-4). Bidding documents will be
prepared by the PEUprior to project singing.

The MOAhas provided the World Bank with a report outlining the composition and structure of
the PEUand the IDBhas provided the Bank with its capacity assessment of the unit.

c. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults
Monitoring and evaluation has been mainstreamed into all project components and will be
conducted at three levels: i)contract compliance; ii)project implementation; and iii)impact
monitoring. The Ministry of Agriculture's PEU shall be the lead contracting agency managing
procurement, performance monitoring and acceptance certification. The PEU shall engage the
services of an engineering firm with expertise in water projects, mapping and surveying to assist
inmonitoring work completed by the project engineering firm(s) and report on progress achieved.
With regard to physical interventions made to increase drainage capacity of the EDWC, the PEU,
through the engineering firm will report these increasesbased on work completed.

                                                 13

The IS shall serve as an advisory and interagency coordinating body under the direction of the
Minister of Agriculture. Representing the various government entities within the GoG that
maintain the technical expertise in project related areas, the IS shall serve as a technical advisory
and technical resource entity for the project. The I S will work with the PEU in reviewing
technical work products and shall assist the PEUby providing technical expertise and inputs for
project management as needed. The IS, through the PEU, shall assist in identifying those
technical personnel within the GoG who will work with contractors in the development of the
project in fulfillment of the technology transfer and institutional strengthening components of the
project. Additionally, the IS shall provide the PEU with recommendations concerning the
institutionalization of project results and data systems with emphasis on the long-term
government strategy for supporting the findings and systems produced under the project.

The Bank will closely coordinate with the PEU and shall retain the services of an internationally
known hydraulic engineer to follow project implementation and review quarterly progress reports
presentedto the PEU and IS by the engineering firm. The PEU, with the assistance of the IS, will
produce concise semi-annual Progress Reports that will be sent to the Bank for review. These
reports will form the basis for Bank supervision missions to assess progress made in the
implementation of project activities. Supervision missions will draw lessons learned to date and
provide guidance to the World Bank. In addition, the Bank, together with a hydraulic engineer,
will conduct a mid-term evaluation of project implementationno later than 1.5 years after the first
project disbursement. The mid-term review will focus on: i)progress in achieving project
outcomes; ii) institutional arrangements for project implementation; iii)effectiveness and
suitability of the monitoring system; and, iv) review of the project implementation plan,
disbursement schedule and operation manual.

A final evaluation will be conducted in the last semester of project execution. The key objectives
of this final evaluation will be to assess attainment of the expected project results, and to draw
lessons learned from project implementation. A list of expected outcomes and results is given in
Annex 3.

d. Sustainabilityand Replicability

Sustainability

The key indicator for sustainability of project activities is follow-on financing to climate change-
proof the EDWC and other conservancy systems. The project is expected to serve as a catalyst
for follow-on donor investments.

Donor community participation was initiated during a June 2006 meeting hosted by the UNDP.
Representatives from the IDB, DfJD, USAID, CIDA, and EU participated in the discussion and
expressed support for the joint strategy proposed by the Bank and GoG. Coordination with the
Donor community continued throughout project preparation. Members of the Donor community
were informed of progress in the development of the project since the June 2006 meetings. Based
on the December meetings, it is expected that the IDB, along with the EU and CIDA will
participate in follow-on physical interventions to improve flood control. The donor dialogue,
which will be spearheaded by the Bank country office in Guyana, will be sustained through
regular meetings to discuss progress achieved and challenges remaining in the sector. Donors are
also expected to attend the IS meetings as observers.



                                                  14

 Crucial to the sustainability of the project is the implementation of a comprehensive capacity
 building program for Guyanese engineers in the use of the information and systems developed
 under the analytical portion of the project. The NDIA, Lands and Surveys Commission and River
 and Sea Defense Unit have received extensive technical support and training under previous EU
 projects. These agencies support modern Geographic Information System (GIS) capabilities and
 have been trained in data collection, management and analysis as well as in precision geodetic
 surveying techniques. These entities have played a critical role in the development of this project
 and will be deeply involved with its implementation. Additional training will strengthen the
 ability of these engineers to run 1D-2D Flow Models and utilize 3D high resolution topographic
 data for analysis of local drainage regimes and land use.

 Redicabilitv

 The project could serve as a template to be replicated in countries with similar geographical
 attributes. Untilnow, many countries with similar coastal water management systems to Guyana
 have not taken into account the impact of sea level rise on their discharge windows. By initiating
 a dialogue on the need for developing countries to take the impact of rising sea levels, other
 countries can proactively strengthen their systems and reduce their increasing vulnerability to
 catastrophic flooding.

 The project would also provide a model for incorporating a suite of technologies that would
 enable other governments to assess big infrastructure projects to ensure that engineering designs
 are sufficient to withstand and accommodate the effects of climate change. In terms of a
 demonstration project, it is anticipated that the technologies and practices used in this project
 could be replicated in other regions facing similar challenges.

 e. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

Critical Risks           Proposed Measures                                                     Risk
                                                                                               Level
System failure -         Reducing the risk of system failure is the primary objective of the     H
country floods before    project. Not carrying out the CAP and the subsequent follow-on
the systemcan be         upgrading programwould result in an increasedlikelihood of system
repaired                 failure. The EDWC dam and drainage componentsare stressedby
                         risingsea levels and mustbe upgradedquickly to protect the
                         vulnerable population and regional agricultural productivity.
Delayed                  Bank is alreadycoordinating closely, by conducting joint missions       M
implementationof the     with the IDB on its US$25 million intervention, which will develop a
follow-on program        streamlinedand comprehensiveprogram that exploits all possible
                         synergies.A sharedPEUthat is adequatelystaffed and will be
                         responsiblefor all procurementunder the program will help in
                         avoiding delays. Other donors will be invited to attend IS meetings
                         and donor briefing sessions.
Poor implementation      The GoG has limited technical capacity and will need extensive          S
capacity at the local    support to confront the challengesof upgrading the water conservancy
level                    systems. Work under the CAP will be structured into two contracts
                         and their executionwill be closely supervisedby the World Bank and
                         Guyanese technical staff.
Limited capacity in      The PEU, while adequately staffed, has limitedcapacity and              S
procurementand           familiarity with Bank procedures. Project has limited procurement
financial management     and FMrelatedactivities. An Action Plan has been agreedto mitigate


                                                  15

Change in                                                                                        L
Governmentpriority -
Governmentdecides
the program is no
longer a national
Drioritv
Sustainability of the    Assurances will be sought during negotiations that GoG will allocate    M
physical interventions   sufficient resources to maintain the improvements being made under
madeunder the            the project. The likely follow-up upgrading program would also help
project                  monitor the maintenanceactivities.
Resistance from key      Various national private stakeholders hold vested interests in the      M
stakeholders             EDWC system and might feel threatenedif they interpret its activities
                         as potential constraints on their current operations. This risk will be
                         mitigated    through   consultations,   workshops,    seminars,    and
                         presentationsdesigned to alleviate any misconceptions, explain facts
                         and discuss the urgency of the problem in such afashion.
                         Overall Risk                                                            S


 f. Grant Conditions
 The following will be completed by project effectiveness:

     a) The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient has been duly
         authorized or ratifiedby all necessarygovernmental and corporate action.
     b) The Memorandum of Understanding has been executed by all of the parties thereto.
     c) The Operational Manual has been approved by the World Bank and adopted by the
         Recipient.


 IV. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

 a. Economic analyses

 According to the 2005 Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC),
 total losses to Guyana resulting from the heavy rains of January 2005 amounted to US$465
 million, or 59 percent of the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In Region 4, the most
 densely populated area in the country, 71 percent of residents were affected, while 20 percent of
 those in neighboringRegion 5 were impacted. In lowland areas, flood waters persisted for over a
 month and the death toll reached 34, of which 27 were due to water borne diseases. The following
 year, the January 2006 floods took a heavy toll on the inhabitants of Region 5. While many in
 Region 4 were spared from floodwaters, local flooding caused by the Mahaica and Mahaicony
 rivers resulted in losses of a significant portion of the region's agricultural production. Severe
 damages were also experienced by local households and businesses.

 The EDWC dam was structurally weakened by both flood events, but the integrity of the system
 remained intact. Yet, due to the pressure on the dam over the past two years, the system i s
 weaker now than it was prior to 2005 - leaving the EDWC system more vulnerable to collapse.
 Should similar rains occur in the future, it is increasingly likely that the dam will collapse and
 flood Regions 4 and 5. Based on the partial flooding of Region 4 in 2005, it is estimated that the

                                                  16

 economic loss resulting from a system breach could range between three and four times Guyana's
 annual GDP. In addition, replacement costs for the EDWC are estimated between US$200-300
*million.  While the EDWC is being reconstructed, it would be incapable of holding irrigation
 water necessary for agricultural production. As a result, agricultural production, which accounts
 for nearly 40 percent of GDP, could fall by over 20 percent annually until a new dam was
 constructed. Moreover, unpredictable social costs that may result from a breakdown of the rule of
 law have the potential to be even more damaging.

 The economic benefits of interventions aimed at strengthening the infrastructure within the
 EDWC system cannot be quantified. Furthermore, the main focus of this project is limited to
 developing tools to improve the GOG's and donor's understanding of the EDWC system and to
 identify key interventions that may be made in the future to address the issues in a comprehensive
 fashion. The project is also making some small infrastructure investments, within the limited
 resources available, to increase the drainage capacity of the EDWC as much as possible in order
 to reduce the likelihood of system collapse.

 The economic analysis found in Annex 9 is therefore limitedto considering the pros and cons of
 the civil works alternatives that would decrease the likelihood of EDWC collapse by relieving
 pressure on an 8 mile north-eastern portion of the dam which was particularly weakened during
 the floods of 2005 and2006. The alternatives were analyzed basedon their cost and other relative
 advantages and disadvantages. Five alternatives were considered and the alternative selected was
 the least cost, provided the maximum increase in water discharge capacity, and was also the
 simplest to implement.

 Because it is difficult to ascertain the probability of collapse, the financial benefits of
 interventions aimed at strengthening the critical infrastructure within the EDWC system cannot
 be accurately quantified, but nevertheless far outweigh the cost. Works aimed at relieving
 pressurebehind the EDWC dam by increasing drainage relief capacity of the system duringtimes
 of heavy rains will lessen the likelihood of system collapse and an ensuing catastrophic event that
 would affect the majority of the inhabited population for several months.

 b. Technical

 A detailed review was made of the technical studies and vulnerability assessments available for
 Guyana and the region (Annex 12). This includes the findings of the Guyana's UNFCCC Initial
 National Communications (2002), the Guyana National Vulnerability Assessment (2002), and the
 Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) Action Plan (2000). Subsequent technical studies,
 pursuant to the implementation of the ICZM plan, were evaluated. From this review, critical data
 gaps were identified which presented an impediment to the implementation of adaptation
 measuresin Guyana.

 Preliminary technical work to develop an upgrading program has been carried out over successive
 years in the form of disaster assessments and upgrading strategies. More recently, a joint World
 BanWIDB technical mission worked with the GoG to develop a comprehensive strategy to
 improve flood control in Guyana. The analytical work completed during the June 2006 mission
 forms the basis of the strategy proposed under the project.




                                                  17

c. Fiduciary

Working in coordination with the IDB, the Bank and the GoG have agreed to utilize the already
existing Project Execution Unit (PEU) housed within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)to carry
out the procurement and financial management activities under the project. This unit currently
performs this function for IDB projects. The procurement and financial management activities
under the project are relatively limited due to the size of the project. An initial assessment of PEU
capacity, conducted by the World Bank, has concluded that the key members of the PEUhave the
capacity to implement the project. The unit currently has 2 accountants and a functioning
financial management information system. While the PEU staff are not currently operating under
World Bank financial management and procurement procedures, the procedures for managing
IDB project implementation are almost exactly the same as World Bank procedures. Therefore,
the overall risk for procurement and financial management is considered moderate. The unit will,
however, require assistance in implementation and supervision to ensure the successful execution
of its duties.

The GoG has undertaken certain procurement reforms at a national level, including the passing of

by the ongoing World Bank Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit - have been agreed to by
a new procurement law. Additional aspects of procurement reform - which are being supported

the GoG and a reassessmentof the overall system will be made during project implementation. In
light of the initial reforms, the relative inexperience of PEU staff in procurement and financial
management, the following action plan is proposed: (i)the PEU to be properly staffed for the
express purpose of managing and delivering the capital expenditure plan under the project; (ii)a
Project Engineermanager will be engaged prior to project start; (iii)preliminary training in
procurement and financial management to be provided by IDA during project launch.; and (iv)
preparation by the PEU, with Bank assistance, of an Operations Manual with a specific chapter
on procurement, detailing all the procedures and channels of responsibilities and flow of
documentation, as well as copies of standard bidding documents, evaluation and selection, and
sample Form 384s and Withdrawal Application; (v) appointment of auditors prior to negotiations;
and (vi) F M R s to be used for disbursement purposes will be reviewed and agreed with GOG prior
to start of disbursement.

d. Social

The social impacts related to CAP are focused on improving the government's ability to protect
over 75 percent of the population of Guyana and its capital, Georgetown, from flooding
associated with drainage system degradation and a failure of the EDWC dam. The current
condition of the dam is critical and one section is particularly vulnerable to failure during a
foreseeable rain event. The fragility of the system is such that a future failure of the dam could
occur with only slightly above average rainfalls because of the damage sustained during the past
2 flood events.

While the project does not provide sufficient funds to attempt all the necessary repairs, the project
will produce the technical assessments and designs required to affect such repairs. The project
will reduce the lead time required by GoG or international donor agencies in preparing an
upgradingworks program over the near future.

Apart from the disaster vulnerability reduction focus of the project, long-term land use policy
development would be advanced as a result of the program. It i s abundantly clear that the future
of drainage management in Guyana is a mix of technical and land management issues.

                                                  18

Ultimately, the GoG will have to adopt a system of land use management to ensure that the
integrity of the drainage system remains high and construction and land use changes do not
adversely affect the future of the system. The presence of the Ministry of Housing and Water in
an advisory capacity to the IS will help make certain that land-use planning related issues are
taken into account comprehensively inall future activities.

Duringthe execution of the project, technical assistance efforts will include the improvement of
land use policies in Guyana and will promote close coordination with other international donors
to ensure that this theme is integrated into any future flood control efforts. Moreover, the CAP
specifically provides the planning tools necessary to make land use management decisions in a
region where drainage systems are so critical to basic survival.

Finally, as needed, the project will incorporate findings developed under the GEF sponsored
"Socio-Economic Assessment of the Vulnerability of Guyana's Coast" produced for the Guyana
Environmental ProtectionAgency (GEP) in 2000.

e. EnvironmentalManagement

Most of the work to be undertaken involves the development of basic data and mapping systems
necessary to assess the integrity and operational characteristics of the EDWC management system
and coastal lowland drainage system. The project is considered Category B due principally to the
widening of the Cuhna Canal, which will increase the discharge capacity of the EDWC.
Additional small works to upgrade flood control structures will be undertaken at the beginning of
project implementation; while others will be carried out in the coastal lowlands based on the
recommendations identified resulting from the use of the analytical tools developed. Key project
activities include:

         LIDAR mapping coupled with color aerial photography of the EDWC and coastal
         lowlands;
         Floodvulnerability and flow modeling;
         Detailedengineering assessmentsof the EDWC dam;
         Other studies contributingto the analysis of risks to the population particularly in the East
         Demerara;
         Minor civil works.

Environmentalmanagement during the project life will include three basic activities: First, for the
small maintenance related works, the environmentalrequirements will be applied in the form of
contract clauses.

The second element is the infrastructure works under component 2 in the form of the
rehabilitation of key drainage relief canals. This task is defined as an activity under the project.
During development, the actual site of works will be selected for the re-opening of the Cuhna
Canal. The engineering design and tender process will be developed and implementedto produce
the works. An environmental assessment of the works under consideration will be produced as
part of the engineering process and findings of the Environmental Assessment (EA) will be
incorporated into the final designs. Both sites will require the construction of a bridge over the
canal works which will require traffic management considerations as the roadway affected is the
principal route from the capital to the airport and northern interior of the country.




                                                  19

Finally, as a result of the analysis of regional hydrologic conditions, the project will develop a
series of engineering interventions which will be designed to optimize the drainage and flood
control system of the coastal lowlands. The project will take these interventions through the pre-
feasibility design phase for follow-up by the government or other donors under follow-on
projects. During the development of these designs, the project will also produce an EA of the
interventions identified.

The environmental impacts resulting from the execution of project activities are limited to those
activities contemplated under component 2, Investments in Specific Adaptation Measures. The
remaining components pertain to scientific and engineering studies or administrative and
institutional strengthening activities and will not result in physical impacts to the project area.

Impacts expectedfrom Component2

Two types of activities are contemplated under the Investments in Specific Adaptation Measures
component. The first is largely in support of maintenance requirements associated with water
control structures in the EDWC. Works of this nature will involve the repair of sluice gate doors,
repairs to operating mechanisms, replacement of stairs and platforms associated with control
structures and similar activities. Under no circumstances will any intervention be made to the
dam and structures will be repaired as is without modification to their discharge characteristics.
Impacts are restricted to those resulting from site activities and the disposal of waste materials
from rehab operations.

The other category of works contemplated under this component is the increase to the drainage
relief capacity of the EDWC system. This involves the rehabilitation of the Cuhna relief canal on
the western edge of the EDWC. This canal was used historically as a relief structure. The canal is
not associatedwith the irrigation or potable water supply functions of the EDWC system.

Impacts anticipated from the rehabilitation of this canal are related to the need to construct a
bridge in the main road from the capital to the northern interior are of the country and the impacts
associated with excavation activities in the project area. The lands are otherwise vacant and no
relocation activities will be required as a result of project. The constriction activity will be
limited to the existing ditch right-of-way alignment. The ditch is for relief purposes only and will
not impact the water use activities of the conservancy.

Additional civil works may be contemplated based on the findings of the engineering studies and
availability of funds in the project. These would likely be in the form of contributions to
improved water level management in the EDWC through additional drainage upgrading or
improved flood management in inhabited areas through localized drainage improvements. These
opportunities will be evaluated as they are identified and environmental compliance requirements
will be identified as projects are selected.

While not expected to have an adverse impact on conservancy, an additional site-specific analysis
will also be completed for the improvement of water flow systems within the EDWC.

Impacts expectedfrom Components1and 3

Components 1 and 3 do not produce direct impacts as they do not involve any construction
activity. These activities relate to engineering data development studies and institutional
strengthening activities. However, work contemplated under component 1Pre-feasibility Studies
for Engineering Design of Workss, will result in the preparation of works bidding packages for

                                                  20

 future execution through the GoG as funding becomes available. This will, in all likelihood
 involve the participation of a donor agency.

 Therefore, as an activity under this project, appropriate environmental planning and required
 environmental assessments will be completed for the works under policies established by the
 Bank for the engineering designs and bidding documentation developed under the key
 interventions

 Environmental Analysis

 A key output of the analytical work will be an engineering tool that is to be used to as a
 foundation for determining the environmental impacts of follow-on interventions.          With the
 development and use of a detailed digital elevation model, local watershed characteristics and
 drainage regimes will be mapped and modeled, creating the basis for future engineering
 interventions. A separate report will be developed, based on the analytical work undertaken in the
 project, which will specifically addresses the likely environmental impacts of future
 interventions. Expected hydraulic impacts, as well as changes in water quality, natural habitats,
 land use, livelihoods and analysis of alternative strategies will be considered. Based on this
 information, an intervention strategy will be developed.

 f. Safeguard policies

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                 Yes               No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                    [XI                [ I
Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                [XI                [ I
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   [ I              [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11-03,being revised as OP 4.11)                      [ I              [XI
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       [ I              [XI
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revisedas OP 4.10)                       [ I              [XI
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                        [XI                [ I
Safety of dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                 [XI                [I
Projects in DisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                                   [ I               [XI
Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                          [ I               [XI

 No relief is sought from Bank safeguard policies and those that will apply to the project which
 include Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4-01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Forests
 (OP/BP 4.36) and Safety of dams (OPBP 4.37).

 Environmental Assessment (EA) (OP/BP4.01)

 An environmental impact assessment has been developed and publicly disclosed through the
 Infoshop in Washington and within Guyana, on the Environmental Protection Agency's website.
 This framework includes: a) a description of the project; b) a description of the safeguards
 triggered and project mechanisms to ensure compliance with each; c) Terms of Reference for
 analytical work that will result in an engineering tool that is to be used as a foundation for
 determining the environmental impacts of follow-on interventions; d) procedures and
 requirements for sub-project specific EAs to be conducted during project implementation; and e)
 a description of the project's strategy for public consultation, during both project preparation and
 implementation.



                                                  21

Natural Habitats (OP/BP4.04)

A portion of the project takes place within the East Demerara Water Conservancy. This is a man
made structure that is considered a natural habitat. No adverse impacts to the conservancy are
envisioned under the project. At the same time, by improving the drainage capacity of the
EDWC and assessing the weak portion of the EDWC Dam, the project aims to ensure that this
naturalhabitat remains intact.

Forests (OP/BP 4.36)

The southern portion of the East Demerara Water Conservancy is bordered by a forest. No
physical work is envisioned within 10miles of this forest and no adverse impacts to the forest are
envisioned under the project. Moreover, improvements in water flows within the EDWC are
expected to have no impact on the bordering forest.

Safetv of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)

The EDWC is bordered to the north by a 30 mile long earthen dam constructed some 150 years
ago. The dam has been heavily stressed particularly during the past two flood events (2004-5,
2005-6). While no civil works are to be conducted on the dam, a detailed engineering assessment
of the dam and its associateddrainage structures i s to be completed under the project. This will
provide the engineering and safety guidance to the GoG for the design and development of any
dam strengthening programs.

The engineering analysis developed under the present project will provide the technical basis for
the Government to fulfill the requirements for an expert assessment of the weakened portion of
the EDWC Dam provided under this safeguard. Upon receipt of the dam safety assessment, and
as part of implementation of the project, the World Bank will contract independent experts to
assess and to validate the quality of the report.

g. Policy Exceptions and readiness

No policy exemptions are sought at this time.




                                                 22

                   ANNEX 1: COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
                           Guyana: ConservancyAdaptation Project

Country Background

Guyana i s situated on the north coast of South America and experiences two rainy seasons
annually. Historically, the strongestof these occurs between the months of June and July, with the
lesser rainy season occurring between December and January. These rainy seasons permit
Guyanesefarmers two annual harvestsof their key export crops, sugar cane and rice. Harvest and
sale of these crops accounts for approximately 27 percent of the nation's GDP.

Of the over 750,000 citizens inhabiting Guyana, over 500,000 live near or below sea-level in a 25
kilometer wide band along the Atlantic coast. To compensate for high levels of rainfall and the
low elevation of the populated regions, the colonial powers (Netherlands 1616-1814 and England
 1814-1966) developed an intricate drainage system requiring constant monitoring and
maintenance. Over the past three decades, the drainage system -composed of a network of dams,
canals and sluices -has seen its operational capacities decline.

Descriptionof Region4 and EDWCSystem

The principle region of focus for the GEF financed Guyana: Conservancy Adaptation Project
(CAP)is Region 4, which is home to the East Demerara Water Conservancy (EDWC). Region 4
i s bounded by the Demerara River to the west, the Mahaica River to the east the Atlantic Ocean
inthe north, andthe Guyana highlands to the South. Apart from a small zone along the Demerara
River, the major part of Region4 historically drained to the Mahaica River.

The region's principle physical water management structure, the EDWC dam, was built inthe late
nineteenth century. The EDWC system has major national significance as it serves as the integral
component of a system that provides potable water to the inhabitants of the coastal lowlands,
flood protection to a significant proportion of the population, and irrigation water for agricultural
production inRegion4.

North of the EDWC are the coastal lowlands of Region 4. They occupy some 470 km2(120,000
acres) and contains a population of roughly 500,000 people, or about 75 percent of the country's
population. Land use includes agricultural and large urbadsuburban areas supporting housing
and businesses. Georgetown, the capital of Guyana, is also located inRegion 4.

The EDWC covers an area of about 335 km2and has a total catchment of 582 km2,The typical
operating level for the EDWC is 17.53m-GD (GD= +17.40 m-msl) and stores upwards of 340
million m3of water. The EDWC dam runs for some 64 km and also provides flood protectionfor
the northern coastal lowlands and Georgetown.

The EDWC dam crest has an average elevation of 18.29 mGD (60 ft,) and captures water from
the westward flowing creeks, particularly from the west bank tributaries of the Mahaica River.
The EDWC drains westerly into the Demerara River, east to the Mahaica River, and the Atlantic
Ocean to the north. Water drains through a number of sluices and canals and current state of these
drainage structureshystems i s as follows:




                                                 23

Demerara River

The EDWC drains into the Demerara River through the Cunha Sluice, the 5 Gate Sluice, the
Cuffy Sluice and the Diamond Sluice. The Demerara River has a relatively high flow rate and
conveyor capacity and can absorb any level of discharge from the EDWC without any effect on
the river level. The sluices that permit the EDWC to drain into the Demerara River are inthe best
condition of any of the system's sluices and canals. However their discharge flow rates are below
their initial capacities due to a general lack of maintenance and repair, resulting in overgrowth of
internal waterways and nonuse of all but the 5 Gate Sluice. This lack of maintenance has been
further exacerbated by the interdiction of numerous private land owners who have altered the

5 Gate Sluice - which is working at less than 70 percent capacity - acts as the systems only safe
direction and flow of the sluice feed canals for private production reasons. As it now stands, the

drainage structure.

Mahaica River

The EDWC drains into the Mahaica River through the Maduni Sluice and the Big and Small
Lama Sluices. These sluices were designed to bring in additional water during the dry seasons,
not to purge excess water during times of heavy rainfall. The Machaica River is much smaller
than the Demerara River and flows into Region 5. Limited in depth and width, the Mahaica River
i s not sufficiently large to act as a discharge valve. Any significant release of water from the
eastern side of the EDWC into the river will result in flooding of Region 5 coastal lowlands. The
decision to discharge through these sluices would only be made out of fear of potential failure of
the EDWC dam. Flooding of Region 5 in January 2006 was exacerbated by the GoG's decision
to releaseEDWC waters through the Maduni Sluice, the Bigand Small Lama Sluices.

Atlantic Ocean

As originally designed, the EDWC drained into the Atlantic Ocean via the NabaclisCanal and the
Shanks Canal. The Nabaclis Canal and the Shanks Canal have both been severely cutback by
local agricultural interests and as a result have very limited flow rates. Due to the overgrowth in
the agricultural lowlands, and bridge interdictions in the populated lowlands, the Nabaclis can no
longer be considered a viable outlet. Reconstitution of this structure would essentially be new
construction, with the added difficulty of land tenure challenges. With respect to the Shanks
Canal, much of the structure remains somewhat intact, although several interdictions exist in the
agricultural lowlands.     In addition to the land tenure difficulties involved, an Amerindian
settlement exists where the canal meets the Atlantic Ocean. Any intervention on behalf of the
project would therefore raise major resettlement issues. It has been decided, therefore, that the
Shanks Canal will not be part of the Bank's upgradingprogram.

OverviewofFloodRisk

Other than at its low crest level, the EDWC dam i s known to be in poor structural condition. This
has been confirmed by numerous inspections carried out by the Task Force for Infrastructure
Recovery (TFIR) and the United Nations Disaster and Coordination team (UNDAC). The dam
currently has little or no freeboard during floods and has insufficient capacity during droughts.
The current situation will only be further exacerbated by the influence of climate change on sea-
levels, which are projected to increase, thus diminishing the window for expunging/discharging
excess water from the EDWC. Further compounding the problem i s the projected change in
rainfall patterns. With overall rainfall levels expected to decrease, but individual rainfall events


                                                  24

increasing in intensity, it will become more and more difficult to manage water levels when water
accumulation is increasing.

The floods of 2005 and 2006 demonstrated that Guyana's coastal drainage and irrigation system
is insufficient to discharge excess waters during heavy rainfall. In neither flood was the EDWC
dam breached; however serious overtopping did occur. Comparison of flood level with a crest
survey undertaken by the Land and Surveys Commission suggest that 10percent of the length of
the dam was overtopped in 2005. It i s a matter of good fortune that such overtopping did not
result in a major breach. Critical works can provide a temporary respite from the risk of a
catastrophic failure of the EDWC system. However serious deficiencies will remain in the
system to the disaster preparation and management capacities of the state institutions responsible
for the monitoring, operation and maintenance of the system.




                                               25

ANNEX 2: MAJOR RELATEDPROJECTSFINANCEDBY THE BANK and/or OTHER
                                       AGENCIES
                          Guyana: Conservancy Adaptation Project

                                                            Latest Supervision (ISR) Ratings
Project                                                     (bank financed projects only)


Guyana - El Nino Emergency Assistance Project (P057271), approval date:       (P') (DO2>
                                                                                S        S
10/22/1998 ,closing date: 03/29/2002

Guyana - Water Sector Consolidation Project (P088030), approval date          MU         S
07/28/2005, closing date 03/31/2010




Other DevelopmentAgencies
Guyana - Coastal Zone FloodManagement Project (IDB)
Guyana -Agriculture Services Support Project (IDB)
Guyana - Sea Defense Project (EU)




'IPImplementationProgress
 DODevelopmentObjective

                                             26

                     ANNEX 3: RESULTSFRAMEWORKAND MONITORING
                                 Guyana:ConservancyAdaptationProject

, ,
  ,',.',P&jwt:Development     ,
' t '.
         I* Objectives '
a) Reduce the vulnerability of     a) Hydraulic engineering foundation critical      To inform the mid-term
catastrophic flooding in Guyana's  for flood control management developedby          review of success
low-lying coastalarea that is      end of project (EOP)                              achieved inthe physical
currently threatenedby sea level                                                     reduction of
rise resulting from global climate b) Identification of at least 10key drainage      vulnerability to
change.                            regimes for follow-on intervention                flooding

                                   c) Increasein the drainagerelief capacity of      To be usedby trained
                                   the East DemeraraWater Conservancy                engineers inGuyanato
                                   (EDWC) to the DemeraraRiver by 35% by             more effectively
                                   EOP                                               manage water flows

                                                                                     To guide future GoG,
                                                                                      Inter-American
                                                                                     Development Bank
                                                                                      (IDB)andother donor'
                                                                                      intervention that should
                                                                                      lead to a systemthat
                                                                                     can discharge excess
                                                                                     rainwater more
                                                                                     effectively

   ' IntermediateResults      I    '~Resulh   Indica&      for Ea& Compbnent
Component one:
Pre-investmentstudiesfor
engineeringdesignof works
i)Detailedtopographicandland-           Light detection and ranging (LIDAR)      To track quarterly progress
use mapping                             data captureof Coastal Lowlands for      of the analytical work
                                        Region 3,4 and 5 completed, for input    undertaken,completed to
                                        into 3D DigitalElevationModel (DEM)      assess the level of
                                        DEMmodel developed                       achievement inthe
                                                                                 developmentof decision
                                                                                 making tools
ii)Hydrologicmodelingof                 1D-2D model developedto identify key
coastal lowlands                        drainageregimes
iii)EDWChydraulicmodeling               1D-2Dmodel developedto identify/ map
                                        key interventions to be made within
                                        conservancy to improve water flow to
                                        the DemeraraRiver
iv) Assessment of EDWC system           Measurementstaken and dam safety
integrity                               analysis completed to highlight areas in
                                        critical needof repair
                                        Leveling and Bathymetry completed
vi) Operationalcapacity building        # of key staff trained inuse of DEM
                                       # of key staff trained inuse of Flow
                                       Models
                                       # of staff trained inuse of monitoring
                                       equipment

                                                       27

Component two: Investments
inspecificadaptation measures

i)Increaseddischargecapacityof   0 Percentageof key canal widened, in        To track quarterly progress
key relief canal from EDWC to      compliance with national and project      of the physical work
Demerara River                     level environmental and safety            undertaken, completed to
                                   requirements                              assess the increase in
                                   Discharge capacity doubled (to be         drainage relief capacity of
                                   confirmed in first vear)                  the EDWC achieved
ii)Improvementofwaterflow          % Increase indischarge capacity to the
system within EDWC                 Demerara River
                                   Internal Hydraulic Flow Model
                                   completed by project year 1(PY1) and
                                   reDort Dresentedon results
iii)UpgradingofEDWCwater         0 100%of repairs identified at appraisal
control structures                 executed by EOP
iv) Selected Equipment Purchase  0 Key monitoring, communications, and
and Installation                   other equipment purchased by PY1,
                                   installed by PY2, and fully operational
                                   bv PY3
v) Major infrastructure civil    0 To be developed by the Implementation
works and operational              Secretariat (IS) and the GoG upon
improvements                       completion of hydraulic engineering
                                   foundation
Component three: Institutional
Strengthening and Project
Management
i)ContingencyPlanforflood        0 Contingency Plan developed with clear      To track quarterly progress
events                             lines o f responsibility by end of PY1and  of institutional analysis
                                   operational by PY2                         completed and contingency
                                                                              plan operationalized and of
                                                                              the donor commitment
                                                                              completed to assess the
                                                                              increase in outside
                                                                              participation to the flood
                                                                              control sector
ii)InstitutionalAnalysisofthe    0 Institutional analysis concluded and
Drainage Sector                    recommendations proposedto GoG




i)Developmentoffloodcontrol        I S formed and operational by PY1
thematic committee               0 At least 10committee meetings held by
                                   EOPwith at least 80% attendance
                                   Prioritizationstrategy to improve water
                                   management capacity developed by IS
                                   by PY3 and presented to donors by EOP
                                   3 Annual Reports provided by IS by
                                   EOP
ii)Donormeetingtobeheldat        0 Donor meeting held at EOP with
project completion                 representatives from at least 5 different
                                   donors in attendance
                                   Amount of pledges made



                                                  28

Monitoring and evaluation has been mainstreamed into all project components and will be
conducted at three levels: i)contract compliance; ii) impact monitoring; and iii)project
implementation. The Project Execution Unit (PEU) and the engineering firm contracted for
analytical work will liaise with the IS and will input information as to progress achieved. With
regards to physical interventions made to increase drainage capacity, the PEU with the IS,
through the engineering firm will report these increasesbased on work completed.

The Bank will closely coordinate with the PEU and retain the services of an experienced
Hydraulic Engineer to follow project implementationand review progress reports providedby the
engineering firm. In addition, the Bank will conduct supervision missions to assess progress
made in the implementationof project activities. Supervision missions will draw lessons learned
to date and provide guidance to the Bank. In addition, the Bank, together with the Hydraulic
Engineer, will conduct a midterm evaluation of project execution. The midterm review will be
conducted no later than 1.5 years after the first project disbursement. The midterm review will
focus on: i)progress in achieving project outcomes; ii)institutional arrangements for project
implementation; iii)effectiveness and suitability of the monitoring system; and, iv) review both
the project implementationplan and project operational manual.

A final evaluation will be conducted in the last semester of project execution. The key objectives
of this evaluation will be to assess attainment of the expected project results and to draw lessons
learned from project implementation.




                                                29

     E           E




0




          cc, 0

    0




     0




      0




       0




0cr     0




         0




              me

  0                  3 E-
                         a,er




          in   Y  0




            Yin    0




   0




3   0




     0           E  P

   0




                             J a .-
    0   0               a       Y  0c


                -
               I    ,




 0




  0  -   0


0         0

                      ANNEX 4: DETAILEDPROJECTDESCRIPTION
                            Guyana: ConservancyAdaptationProject

Comvonent I: Pre-InvestmentStudies for Engineering Design of Works

The objective of this component is to provide the hydrologic baseline necessary for
contemplating rational interventions aimed at increasing the current discharge capacity coastal
drainage and irrigation system. This objective will be achieved through:

Sub-component 1.1: System Mapping           -  Use of Topographic and Bathymetric Mapping to
SupportModeling

The assessment of dam safety and analysis of drainage improvements will require extensive state-
of-art hydrologic and hydraulic modeling of the flood flows. This sub-component details the
topographic and bathymetric surveys required to support the modeling, For practical purposes,
the geographical coverage i s limited to the populated coastal lowlands Regions 3, 4, and 5. The
mapping of the EDWC and regions 3, 4 and 5 will be accomplished through the following
activities:

1, Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) Topography and Aerial Photography: Usingairborne
    LIDAR coupled with Color Aerial photography, a high-resolution, high-precision
    topographic model of Region 4 and inhabited areas of Regions 3 and 5 will be developed.
    Raw data shall be processedand refinedto produce a digital elevation model representing:

                 The bare land form;
                 Foot printsof structures, roads and other man made features and trees;
                 Ditch and bank alignments;
                 Landuse.

    These data will be augmented, where necessary, with ground surveys. The model will be
    developed using the national geodetic grid and first order ground control points. Model
    outputs will include raw and finished datasets. Finished datasets will be produced in a digital
    elevation model (DEM) or other suitable non-proprietary digital format (e.g. geotiff) suitable
    for use in ARCGIS 8.3 (ESRI). Each pixel shall represent a 1 m2ground surface. Vertical
    precision shall be within 15 cm. Land use in the region i s largely agricultural, with sugar
    cane and rice as the predominant crops. Aerial missions will be flown after harvest when
    dense grass cover i s minimized. This also coincides with the dry season when water levels
    will be at their minimum.

2. Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) Horizontal Control Benchmarks: The objective of this
    activity is to establish satellite derived (WGS84 datum and spheroid) reference control points
    tied to the Guyana National Geodetic Network.          Using the National Geodetic Control
    Network, permanent horizontal control points shall be referenced using precision GPS survey
    techniques. Two control points shall be selected in region 4 to include one at the Timehri
    airport and the other to be determined by the Lands and Surveys Commission. For regions 3
    and 5, the contractor shall work with the Lands and Survey Commission to select one stable
    and permanent benchmark in each region for GPS referencing. The benchmarks selected for
    referencing shall be established geodetic control points already tied to the Guyana Vertical
    Datum.



                                                  34

3. Ground Control Points: Working with the Lands and Surveys Department of the Ministry of
   Agriculture (MOA)and the Sea Defense Division of the Ministry of Works, a series of ground
   control points for the ortho-rectification of photographic imagery and registration of the
   digital elevation mode will be established. The vertical datum to be used shall be the Guyana
   Lighthouse datum. Horizontal coordinates shall be expressed in meters UTM zone 21. The
   spheroid and horizontal datum reference is WGS84 and the EGM96 ellipsoid. Ground control
   points shall be tied to the Guyana National Geodetic reference network. As a result of
   previous activities, a series of control points have been installed in region 4 that will be
   integrated into the ground control network.

4. Leveling and Bathymetry: Horizontal and vertical accuracies for leveling and bathymetric
   surveys shall conform to class 1 level 2 standard and shall be tied to the national geodetic
   control network unless otherwise specified.

5. Dum Crest: A survey will be made to ascertain the level of the crest of the EDWC dam. This
   survey shall consist of a first-order survey with stations located at 50-meter intervals.

6. Dum Cross-sections: At 500-meter intervals, cross-sections of the dam structure will be
   created. This cross-section shall be taken to coincide with the elevation station taken at the
   dam crest and the location shall be horizontally referenced against the Guyana geodetic grid
   system. This cross section shall be sufficiently long to incorporate the relevant upstream and
   downstream conditions. In addition to cross sections taken at the standard interval, additional
   cross sections shall be taken in areas where reinforcements have been made to stabilize the
   dam structure. The consultant shall document and measure the extent and physical condition
   of the reinforcements

7. Conservancy Transects: A topographic survey to develop a contour representation of the
   bottom of the storage area of the EDWC will be conducted. Data shall be collected along a
   sampling grid of 2 km X 2 km. Depth shall be measured from the water surface with an
   accuracy standard of  *5 cm.     Horizontal precision shall be within 30 meters. Water surface
   shall be calibrated against the vertical control points established in the navigationchannels

8. Bathymetric Survey of the Channel System: A bathymetric survey of the channel drainage
   system associatedwith the EDWC will be conducted. This survey shall include:

           0    Canal and channel cross sections taken at 500 meter intervals. This will also
                include the canal sections downstream of water control structures;

                Longitudinal profiles (thalweg) of all channels and canals;

                Cross sections and longitudinal profiles of the water courses associatedwith the
                Mahaica River from the Lama and Maduni sluice gates to the mouth of the
                Mahaica River.

  Locations along the rivers and canals where local energy losses are significant will be
   identified and documented.

                Vertical Control Stations: Existing staff gauges are to be re-leveled and new
                gauges installed and leveled within the EDWC along the northern fringe and



                                                 35

                 existing creeks, and in the downstream canals. These gauges will be referenced
                 against Guyana Datum to a second-order vertical level of precision.

Sub-component1.2:Assessment of EDWC System Integrity

The EDWC dam is constructed of earth and organic material (pegasse), depending on the section
involved. It has been intervened by numerous small water control structures, many of which have
been abandonedover the years. Deterioration of the dam, coupled with severe stress events have
served to weaken the structure. During the floods of 2004-05, the dam was briefly overtopped
due to excessive rainfall and it is clear from aerial surveys and field inspections that the structure
i s creeping, particularly along the northeastern portion of the dam. This i s the portion where
pegasse was the principal material of construction. The objective of this sub-component i s to
produce a comprehensive engineering analysis and design for the critical upgrading of the dam
and its associatedwater control structures consisting of the following:.

1. A comprehensive evaluation of the geotechnical conditions and structural integrity of the
     EDWCdam.

2. Locate, map and evaluate all water control structures associated with the dam including
     structures in and out of service.

3.   Develop engineering designs, plans and an implementation program for critical repairs to the
     dam, according to accepted geotechnical engineering practices. Design parameters shall be
     consistent with a 10,000 year return period.

4.   Develop engineering designs, plans and an implementation program for repairs and
     modifications of the water control structures (outlets). Design parameters shall be consistent
     with a 10,000-year return period.

5.   Identify and catalogue local/regional sources of suitable construction materials and logistic
     options.

6. Develop an assessment of the evolution of the storage capacity of the EDWC, considering
     the rate of sedimentation, particularly due to the accumulation of organic debris. Assessment
     shall identify relationship between dead and live storage capacity of the system and provide
     an estimate of the useful life of the system.

7. Assess and identify additional works and equipment necessary for dam operation,
     maintenance and monitoring to ensure the safety of the system.

8. Develop a comprehensive operation, maintenance and monitoring plan for water
     management and dam safety.

9. Produce required environmental assessments relating to the dam upgrading project including
     physical works, material extractions, transportation and other relevant aspects of the project.

10. Produce required environmental assessments relating to the dam upgrading project including
     physical works, material extractions, transportation and other relevant aspects of the project.

11. Preparebidspecifications, tender packages and notifications required under World Bank and
     Inter-AmericanBank procurement regulations


                                                  36

Sub-component 1.3: Flow Modeling of the EDWC System and Coastal Lowlands for Flood
Control Management

The detailed hydrodynamic modeling of the EDWC and its environs i s necessary to ascertain the
effectiveness of the modified drainage conditions to reduce the risk of flooding. Modeling will
determine the extent to which the internal drainage and outlet structures are capable of operating
to keep the design stages within acceptable bounds, consistent with established flood risk
management practices. Detailed modeling will also serve as a powerful tool to establish andor
modify operational strategies and practices, as deemed necessary to guarantee the integrity and
safety of the embankment. The modeling of the EDWC System will consist of the following
activities:

1. Review of the existing hydro-meteorological monitoring network to determine its suitability
    for calibration and validation of the hydrologic and hydraulic models;

2. Installation of additional monitoring stations (rainfall and runoff) as deemed necessary to
    support appropriate modeling;

3. Data collection for at least two wet seasons to obtain a time series of rainfall, flood stages,
    and discharges of high quality;

4. Development of the rainfall-runoff transform in the EDWC and Mahaica river basin suited to
    local drainage conditions;

5. Development of a 1D-2Dhydraulic model of flow within the EDWC and the Mahaica River
    downstream of the confluence with the Maduni River. The model should be capable of
    accounting for wind setup;

6. Calibrationhalidation of the hydrologic and hydraulic model usingthe 2005, 2006, and 2007
    flood data;

7. Establishment of downstream boundary conditions consistent with the effect of the tides on
    the outlet works;

8. Production model runs should use 1,000-yr and 10,000 design frequencies. The output from
    the model should be the static freeboard corresponding to the applicable design storms and
    boundary conditions;

9. At a minimum, production runs should consist of the following three scenarios: (1) existing
    conditions, (2) modified internal conveyance conditions, and (3) modified internal
    conveyance and outlet conditions;

10. Using the model, device and execute a suitable series of production runs to develop
    recommendations to improve the operational rules and management practices.

The modeling of the coastal lowlands will consist of the following activities:

1. Using the digital elevation model, develop a 1D - 2D hydraulic model for the coastal
    lowlands of Region 4 inorder to conduct a micro-drainageanalysis;




                                                 37

2. The ensuing micro-drainage analysis will be used to map actual water flows in the region,
    drainage sinks, drainage inputs and outputs, effects of damaged or abandoned drainage
    structures and local impoundments;

3. The micro-drainage analysis and mapping will be used to develop recommendations for a
    rationalized drainage network to reduce the potentialfor flooding;

4. This will then be developed into a micro-drainage management plan specifically designed to
    integrate with the existing irrigation system and optimize the ability to manage floodwaters in
    rural and urban areas.

Sub-component 1.4:Pre-feasibility Studies EDWC dam and Coastal Lowlands Drainage and
                                              -
Irrigation Analysis and WorksIdentification

The pre-feasibility studies will rely on the analyses conducted in subcomponent 1.2 and 1.3. The
studies shall be ina digital format suitable for use inESRIArcGIS mapping software.

1. EDWC dam: A section of the EDWC dam, located between Non-Pareil and Flagstaff, is in
    critical need of upgrading. This section is constructed of pegasse and is located in a section
    of the EDWC where the stability of the foundation i s suspect. The objective of this activity is
    to perform the feasibility analysis to study two alternatives: (1) Maintain the existing
    alignment, and (2) move the alignment further north, to coincide with the Crown dam. Under
    this activity, a feasibility study to analyze the cost-benefits of the two alternatives will be
    conducted and a recommendation made as to which of the two options i s to be chosen for the
    medium-term solution. This study will include the required hydraulic and geotechnical
    investigations, and other related field studies required to supplement data collected via the
    analyses conducted under subcomponent 2.2 and 2.3

2. Coastal Lowlands: Once completed, a series of recommendations for drainage works to
    reduce potential future flooding, prioritize these works, cost and develop contractor terms of
    reference for the execution of these works.        Works and designs shall be developed to
    maximize the use of existing structures and systems, gravity-based drainage methods, and to
    minimize the use of pumps as drainage control where possible.

Comuonent2: Investmentsin SuecificAhutation Measures

Near-term works under this program include the expansion of the Cuhna discharge structure on
the west side of the EDWC, improvement of flow conveyance to the Demerara outflows, and
repairs to several water control structures within and outside of the EDWC. These works are
designed to improve the operation of the EDWC system through the augmentation of existing
drainage relief capacities to facilitate improved D W C water level management during critical
rainy periods. The intervention works consist of repairs to water control structures and safety
appurtenances which require upgrading work to cope with the need for increased discharge
capacity.

Improvements to the discharge capacity of the EDWC system are designed to augment existing
outflow capacity and seek to decrease the reliance on the Lama and Maduni water control
structures for the management of water levels in the EDWC. The additional discharge capacity
envisioned for the Cuhna outlet will not eliminate the potential need for Lama and Maduni
sluices; however, it is expected to make a significant contribution to the overall discharge



                                                  38

capacity of the system and assist in decreasing the dependence on the two aforementioned
structures.

At the conclusion of the coastal lowlands drainage analysis, a series of infrastructure
improvements for flood control are anticipated. Based on the costs of these improvements, the
project will undertake one or more of these activities based on the availability of funds and
priority established together with the GoG.

Sub-component2.1: Wideningof Key Drainage Relief Canals

The Cuhna outlet is located on the western side of the EDWC, north of the 5 Gate Sluice along
the eastern bank of the Demerara River. The structure is designed to discharge under the Airport
Road, through a culvert, directly to the river. Discharge i s affected by the daily high tide and
possible encroachment by the existing highway crossing.          Works shall include engineering
analysis and design to substantially increase the relief capacity at Cuhna outlet, including canal
and sluices. The activity will maximize the design capacity of the expanded structure consistent
with site conditions and local/regional land use constraints. Designs shall consider the possibility
of future expansion of the discharge capacity of the system.

The sub-component will cover the design of the associatedroadway improvements in accordance
with the requirements of the sluice modifications and road construction practices as specified by
the Ministry of Public Works. The following activities will be undertaken:

1. A project-level environmental assessment will be prepared. This assessment will consider the
    impact of the construction and improvements to the Cuhna outlet and the adjacent bridge and
    roadway. The assessment will also include considerations for the management of specific
    impacts associated with the deepening of the canal structure and the increase of water flow
    anticipated from the amplification of the relief structure. The physical impacts resulting from
    the modification of the adjacent bridge and roadway shall include a traffic management plan
    and noise reduction considerations to be implemented during the construction phase. An
    environmental management plan will also be prepared for site works implemented during the
    constructionphase;

2. Assessment of the relief capacity of the structure under various postulated design conditions,
    subject to the constraints;

3. Engineering design of the modified Cuhna outlet, includingupstream control structure, canal,
    downstream control structure and associatedhighway crossing;

4. Detailedconstruction drawings and specifications

Usingthe prepared designs and plans, the improvements to the Cuhna canal will be executed. A
contractor will develop and prepare an organizational plan and management schedule and will
manage the construction site in conformance with national and project level environmental and
safety requirements.




                                                 39

Sub-component2.2: Improvement of Water Flow System with EDWC

Under this sub-component the flow model described in sub-component 2.3 will be used to
support the development of short-term improvements to the discharge capacity of the system.
This model shall be developed using existing data, supplemented with hydrographic surveys of
the associated creeks and drainage canals coupled with consideration of the capacity of outlet
structures. The objective is to improve the general flow of water within the EDWC to the
appropriate outlet structures.

The computational tool shall consist of a pseudo two-dimensional hydraulic model of the
hydraulic infrastructure of the EDWC and shall be used for the design of internal waterways to
effectively convey water to the western boundary of the EDWC. The downstream boundary
conditions shall be taken at the confluence with the Demerara River and shall consider tidal
influences derived from the observations made at Georgetown and Timehri. The analysis shall
include:

1. Simulation of the hydraulic flow conditions inthe EDWC as they existed during the flood of
     January - February 2006;

2.   Simulation of the hydraulic flow conditions inthe EDWC with the internal drainage
     improvements and the additional relief capacity inplace, to assess the effectiveness of the
     interventions.

The outputs of this analysis shall include:

1. Results of the hydrographic survey of the creeks and canals within the EDWC, the outlet
    canals and associatedhydraulic structures;

2. A report presentingthe results of the simulations;

3. A drainage improvement plan delineating the creeks to be cleared and up to three waterways
    to be created to enhance internal water flows. One of these waterways shall transverse the
    EDWC from the Lama sluice area to the 5 Gate area. The plan shall include:

                 Recommendations for the management of excavated material within the EDWC
                 boundaries.

                 1:25,000 map showing creeks and proposed waterway locations to be
                 improvedcreated;

    -
            0    Cross sectional designs for waterway construction;

                 Management plan for the disposal of recovered material.




                                                40

Sub-component2.3 Upgrading of Flood Control Structures

Several flood control structures within the EDWC have deteriorated over the years and are in
need of upgrading to increase discharge capacity, made necessary as a result of sea level rise.
Under this sub-component a survey of the flood control structures will be carried out to identify
those repairs needed to place the flood control structures in safe working order. These repairs
include gates, appurtenances, and safety structures such as rails, stairs, etc. Repairs shall be
limited to the operational and safety components of the structure and shall not extend to the
foundation or abutments. The contractor shall prepare a bill of quantities for each structure to be
repaired. Once the structures are surveyed and repairs are identified, the contractor shall work
together with the EDWC supervisor to prioritize the works and execute repairs. Based on the
survey and priority scheme, a final set of works shall be developed for approval and execution.
Additional infrastructure upgrades will be implemented based on the results of analytical work
completed inComponent 1.

Coastal drainage works will be identified and developed during the system analysis conducted
under sub-component 1.4. Based on costs identified and priorities established together with the
GoG, selected works will be constructed under the program. Works will be identified under the
project and required engineering and safeguard studies will be completed under the project as
needed.


Sub-component2.4: Selected Equipment Purchaseand Installation

Equipment purchased under this sub-component shall be provided to support the management of
the EDWC in fulfilling their responsibilities. The responsibilities include the monitoring of water
levels within the EDWC, capturing flood control related data, maintaining and, when required,
repairing the system. The vertical control staff gauge stations referred to in subcomponent 2.1
will be equipped with water level recorders capable of storing 30 days worth of data taken at 10
minute intervals. The water control level recorders shall be pressure sensing devices with onboard
data storage capable of being downloaded to a laptop computer. Specific equipment requirements
(quantity and technical specifications) will be determined during the execution of the project. In
general, the equipment will consist o f

        Hydrologic monitoring equipment (recording weather stations, staff gauges, discharge
        measuring equipment, pressure-type water level recorders and sediment load measuring
        equipment);

        Airboat - for management supervision and emergency access;

        Twopontoon-mounted 65-foot boom excavators, to clear internal waterways;
   ~~




        Communications support equipment, safety equipment, diesel generators and portable
        pumps(to be determined).

Component3 Institutional Strenatheningand ProiectManagement
              -
The objective of this component is to strengthen the institutional framework for flood control
within the context of the national emergency management sector headed by the Civil Defense
Commission. The project will also support an institutional consolidation of flood control in



                                                41

Guyana to help create consensus around a medium and long term intervention strategy to help the
country adapt to sea level rise. This work will center around specific products, including:

            o Contingencyplanforjlood events
            o Consolidationofjlood control actors
            o Monitoring and evaluationof project progress
            o Project management

The key outcome of this institutional analysis and project management will be improved GoG
effectiveness in rationalizing the emergency response and general maintenance phases of flood
control, in addition to medium and long term adaptation plans. A contingency plan will be
prepared outlining the steps that would be taken to respond to a catastrophic event which takes
place while the improvements are being implemented. The contingency plan will also include a
plan for the provision of water supply under both flood and drought emergencies. With clear
lines of responsibility in times of urgent need as well as times of calm, the GoG will be better
equipped cope with the challenges posed to the country's coastal lowland drainage and irrigation
system by the climate change induced sea level rises.




                                                42

Guyana ConservancyAdaptation Project
       Mappingand Analysis




              43

Guyana ConservancyAdaptation Project
 Near-Tern Civil Wonks Component




                       5.5 ProjectLevelEvlronmental
                       Assessment to the CuffyOutlet




                 44

                                     ANNEX 5: PROJECTCOSTS
                              Guyana: ConservancyAdaptation Project

The cost of the CAP would be about US$5.0 million, to be spent over a period of 3 years. The
project would involve two tenders, to be executed by an international engineering firm with
expertise in EDWC drainage systems. The firm will conduct all studies and assessments. They
will also design, contract out, and supervise the ensuing infrastructure adaptation works. A
breakdown of the investments and activities to be supported under the CAP is summarized in the
table below:

                                                             GEF
                                                            Funds    Government      Total
($'ooo)
 Component                                                  ($'OW)                  ($'OW)

 1- Pre-investmentstudies for engineeringdesignof works

       1.1- SystemMapping:Useof Topographic and
       Bathymetric Mapping to Support Modeling               1,300                   1,300

       1.2 - Assessment of EDWC SystemIntegrity              250                      250

       1.3 - Flow Modeling of EDWC Systemand Coastal
       Lowlands for FloodControl Management                  300                      300

       1.4 - Pre-feasibility Studies - EDWC dam and Coastal
       Lowlands DrainageAnalysis and Works
       Identification                                        150                      150
                                   TOTAL COMPONENT1          2,000                   2,000

 2 - Investmentsinspecific adaptationmeasures

       2.1 - Widening of Key DrainageRelief Canals                      1,200        1,200
       2.2 - Improvementof Water Flow Systemwithin
       EDWC                                                  250                      250

       2.3 - Upgrading of FloodControl Structures            950                      950

       2.4 - SelectedEquipment Purchase and Installation     500                      500
                                   TOTAL COMPONENT2          1,700      1,200        2,900

 3 - Institutional strengtheningand project management

       3.1 - Developmentof ContingencyPlan                    50                      50

       3.3 ConsensusBuilding and Project Management           50                      50
                                   TOTAL COMPONENT3          100                      100
                                                  TOTAL      3,800      1,200        5,000




                                                  45

                       ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
                              Guyana: ConservancyAdaptationProject

  The implementation arrangements for the project are aimed to maximize cost effectiveness,
  promote timely execution and ownership, and ensure transparency amongst stakeholders. This
   implementation structure will be made of two main components, an Implementation Secretariat
   (IS) responsible for project oversight and coordination and a Project Execution Unit (PEU)
   responsible for all administrative and fiduciary aspects.         Ultimate authority of project
   management lies within the Ministry of Agriculture. The PEU will be responsible for managing
   the day to day project implementation and for fulfilling procurement and financial reporting tasks.

   Implementation Secretariat

  The IS will be formed between several government institutions and will comprise of a core IS and
   advisors to the IS. Through the signing of Memoranda of Understanding, the National Drainage
   and Irrigation Authority, Civil Defense Commission, Sea and River Defenses and Lands and
   Survey Commission will form the core IS. Peripheral members will include the Ministry of
   Finance, Ministry of Housing and Water, Environmental Protection Agency, Hydromet Office
   and international donors (who will be observers) and will be chaired by the Minister of
   Agriculture.

   The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture will be the Deputy Chairman of the IS.
   In this capacity the PS will be responsible for leading most IS meetings and for its day to day
   operations. The Minister of Agriculture will attend IS meetings from time to time, provide
   strategic leadership and direction to the IS on all climate change related activities, and, serve as
   an advisor and guide to the IS. Issues outside the direct pursue of the IS will also be referred to
   the Minister of Agriculture.

  The Permanent Secretary of Agriculture will be responsible for convening the IS and for
   receiving and reviewing the analytical outputs produced by the engineering firm recruited to
   conduct the overall studies. Once the IS validates the analytical outputs and officially accepts the
   work, the PEUwill be authorized to pay the contracted firm.

   Proiect ExecutionUnit

   The Project Execution Unit housed within the MOA,will manage the fiduciary and administrative
   aspects of the project. The PEU is currently being utilized by the IDB for the implementation of
   the Agricultural Services Project. InJanuary 2007, the World Bank met with key members of the
  PEUand found them to be of satisfactory quality to implementthis project. The PEUwill manage
__ the p r o c u r e m e n p r o F e ~ t h e t e n ~ n i c ireportingm
                                                             a 1           e project,-Znd w X make        - --


  payments to the contractors, based on recommendations from the PS of Agriculture and the IS.
  To simplify the role and responsibilities of the PEU, project procurement and fiduciary activities
   have been kept at a minimum and the project will comprise of only a few tenders. Bidding
   documents will be prepared by the PEUprior to project signing.

  The MOAhas provided the World Bank with a report outlining the composition and structure of
   the PEU and the IDB has provided the Bank with its capacity assessment of the unit. The Bank
   used this as its baseline for assessing the capacity of the PEU and concurs with the IDB's
   assessment that the PEUhas sufficient capacity to carry out the project



                                                   46


   ANNEX 7: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENTAND DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS
                            Guyana: ConservancyAdaptation Project

 Working in coordinationwith the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the World Bank and
 the Government of Guyana (GoG) have agreed to utilize the already existing Project Execution
 Unit (PEU) housed within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)for the execution of the CAP. The
 PEU was established for the IDB financed Agricultural Support Services Project which recently
 began implementation. The role of the PEU is limited to procurement and financial reporting
 activities. The financial management risks associated with the use of the Grant proceeds are
 mitigated by the fact that a relatively high proportion of the grant would be disbursed on the basis
 of direct payments thereby providing the IDA the opportunity to vet the payment supporting
 documents. Furthermore, the risks are also mitigated because the PEU is an on-going entity
 established with the support of the IDB.

 Summary Conclusions of FinancialManagement Assessment: On the basis of the assessment
 of the capacity of the PEU, performed by a World Bank procurement analyst in January 2007, a
 desk review conducted by the Financial Management Specialist, the overall conclusions are that
 the PEU is staffed with a full compliment of personnel and has a functioning financial
 management information system. A PEU capacity assessment, conducted by the IDB, was also
 reviewed and found to be adequate. The conclusions of both these assessments is that while PEU
 is not well versed in World Bank financial management procedures, the guidelines are very
 similar to IDB requirements. The PEU will require some assistance in implementation and
 supervision to ensure the successful execution of its duties, although it currently has the financial
 management capacity to implement the project.

 Accounting and Reporting: The PEU will be responsible for producing the Interim Financial
 Reports (IFR) on a semi-annual basis to be submitted to the IDA. Inaccordance with IDA (and
 other donor's) guidelines, the IFRs are expected to provide information for monitoring the
 financial, implementation and procurement process of the Project. The IFRs will also provide
 information about the PEU's periodic expenditures by project components and disbursement
 categories, both by reporting period and cumulatively.         They will also include supporting
 schedules comparing planned versus actual expenditures. These financial reports would also
 provide the basis for preparing the schedules on the project that would be included in the annual
 audit report.

 Auditing arrangements: Under the CAP, project financial statements would be audited
 annually. The audit reports would be prepared in accordance with International Standards on
 Auditing, by independent auditors and in accordance with the Terms of Reference (TOR)
 acceptable to the Bank. The PEU will need to present TOR and a letter of appointment of the
l    x      t     e     r     m  . . f     a     a ieviewmd qqmwd. The d i t rqx& would
 include supporting schedules providing sufficient information on the project (Le. Sources and
 Uses of Funds, Statement of Expenditures (SOE). The annual audit report will be required to be
 submitted to the Bank no more than 4 months following the end of the fiscal year.

 DisbursementArrangements: The following disbursement methods will be available under the
 grant: (a) Direct Payments and (b) reimbursements.
 Given the number of contracts involved, it is expected that the prevailing disbursement method
 will be Direct Payments for those eligible expenditures for contracts for works, goods and
 consultant services. Operating Expenses will be reimbursed to the recipient upon request to the
 Bank.


                                                  48

 Supporting documentation should be provided with each applicationfor withdrawal as set out
 below:

        For requestsfor reimbursement: Statementof Expenditure-for all operating expenses; and

        For requestsfor directpayment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies of
           receipts, suppliers/contractors' invoices.

 As all direct payments will be for contracts subject to prior review by the Bank, it is expected that
 at the time of payment request, the contracts would have been reviewed by the Bank and the No
 Objection has been issuedprior to the request for payment."

 BudgetingProcess:An annual budget would be prepared by the IS on the basis of a consolidated
 annual investment plan developed by the IS.

IAction                         Financial ManagementAction Plan
                                                 I Responsible  Entity     I Completion   Date
 1.Audit Arrangements
 TOR and Draft Letter of Appointment for the                 IS                   By negotiations
 auditors
 2. Reporting
 Submit to the Bank a sample format of the                   IS                   By negotiations
 IFRto be usedfor disbursement purposes

             Category                    Amount of the Grant            Percentage of Expenditures to
                                     Allocated (expressedinUSD)                 be Financed
                                                                             (inclusive of Taxes)
 (1) Works                                       950,000                            100%

 (2) Goods                                     1,850,000                            100%

 (3) Consultants' services                       950,000                            100%

 (4) OperatingExpenses                            50,000                            100%

 TOTAL AMOUNT                                  3,800,000


 SupervisionPlan

 ~~                                                  ~           ~           ~           _          _
               ~~~                 ~~                                 ~~
 It is recommended that a financial management supervision mission visit the P E E t least once a
 year to monitor the performance of its financial management systems




                                                  49

                                ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENT
                           Guyana: ConservancyAdaptation Project

a. General

Procurement for the CAP would be carried out in accordancewith the World Banks "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions
stipulated in the Legal Agreements. The various items under different expenditure categories are
described ingeneral below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the GoG and the World
Bank has agreed on a Procurement Plan including i)the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, ii)the need for pre-qualification, iii)estimated costs, iv) prior
review requirements, v) and implementation time frame. The Procurement Plan will be updated
at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements in institutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: Works procured under the CAP would include, inter alia: civil works
required for the widening of key drainage relief canals and flood control structures as well as
small coastal lowland works as funds remain available. Procurement will done using the Banks
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for international competitive bidding (ICB) processes and
national SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank for works procured using national
competitive bidding (NCB).

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under the project would include, inter alia:
communication equipment, and the purchase and installation of selected engineering equipment.
The procurement will be done using the Bank's SBD for ICB and national SBD agreed with or
satisfactory to the Bank for NCB and shopping.

Selection of Consultants: Consultants will be contracted to support the institutional
strengthening component for engineering design and other pre-investment activities, for
construction and implementation supervision, and to prepare specific studies such as the baseline
and after project studies. Short lists of consulting firms for services estimated to cost less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in
accordancewith the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Operating Costs: Operational costs such as office rental, utilities/communications, salaries of
incremental staff will be financed by the Grant in accordance with an annual plan agreed upon
between the GoG and the World Bank. All such operating costs will be procured usingthe GoG's

- ~ _ _-
administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.

Training: The project will finance training for the National Drainage and Irrigation Authority,
Civil Defense Commission, Land and Surveys Commission and Ministry of Public Works' - Sea
and River Defense unit inthe use of the digital elevation and flow models.

The procurement procedures and SBDs to be usedfor each procurement method, as well as model
contracts for works and goods procured, will be presented in the Project Operational Manual.

Thresholds: Thresholds recommended for the use of the procurement methods specified in the
project procurement plan are identified in the attached table, which also establishes the notional



                                                50

       thresholds for prior review. The agreed procurement plan will determine which contracts will be
       subject to Bank prior review.

       b. Assessment of the Ministry of Agriculture's Project Execution Unit's Capacity to
       implementprocurement

       Procurement activities will be carried out by the Inter-American Development Bank financed
       Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) Project Execution Unit (PEU) and coordinated through the
       Implementation Secretariat (IS) created under the project. With regards to procurement aspects,
       the PEU has been constituted under the Agriculture Services Support Project and has existing
       institutional capacity, but needs guidance inBank procurement procedures.

       The Government of Guyana (GoG) has undertaken a reform of procurement aspects at a national
       level including the passing of a new Procurement law. Further aspects of procurement reform -
       which are being supported by the ongoing Bank supported Public Sector Technical Assistance
       Credit - have been agreed upon by the GoG and a reassessment of the overall system will be
       made during project implementation. Inlight of these initial reforms undertaken, the creation of
       the PEU, the experience of their staff in procurement and the corrective measures which have
       been agreed with MOAand World Bank (see Action Plan below), the overall project risk for
       procurement is AVERAGE.

       Action Plan                              I




       Inorder to reducetheprocurement implementationrisks,thefollowingactionplanisproposed:

                The PEU to be properly staffed for the express purpose of managing and delivering the
                IS'Scapital expenditure plan
                Contracting of the ProjectEngineermanager
                Preliminary training in procurement to be provided by IDA during project launch.
                Preparation by the IS of an Operations Manual with a specific chapter on procurement,
                detailing all the procedures and channels of responsibilities and flow of documentation,
                as well as copies of standard bidding documents, evaluation and selection, and sample
                Form 384s and Withdrawal Application.

       c. ProcurementPlan

       A draft procurement plan for project implementation was prepared which provides the basis for
       the procurement methods and the prior review thresholds. This draft plan has been agreed
       between the Recipient and the Bank on June 15 and i s available at the MOA'Soffices in Guyana.
_ _ --_ also be available inthe project's database and inthe Bank's external website. The
       It will
                  ~~


       Procurement Plan will be updatedinagreement with thexank annuany or as required to reflect
       the actual project implementationneeds and improvements in institutional capacity.




                                                       51

    ConsultantServices                    ProcurementMethod
    Expenditure Category                  QCBS                     Other      N.B.F        TotalCost
    A. Firms                                 900      IICQ                                    900
    B. Individuals                            50                                               50



    d. Frequency of ProcurementSupervision

    Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be carried out by the Bank, it is recommended that
    two supervision missions take place during the first year of implementation to carry out post
    review and provide procurement guidance as needed. Subsequent procurement supervision
    missions will take place once a year, provided capacity has improved. The Bank will retain an
    engineering expert to assist inthe oversight of the engineering work.

    e. Details of the ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

    1, Goods,Works, andNonConsultingServices
                                s to be pros
         1          2                 3              4           5         6            7       8
     Ref.       Contract          Estimated   Procurement       P-Q    Domestic     Review Expecte
     No.     (Subcomponent)         cost         Method                Preferenc       by       d
                                                                           e          Bank      Bid-
                                                                        (yedno)      (Prior / Openin
                                                                                      Post)     g
                                                                                               Date
    Goods    Topographic         $1,3OO,OOO         ICB                   No          Prior   02/1/20
             Mapping (1.1)                                                                   I  O8   I
                                                                                   ~-02/5/20
-~       ~-  Selected             $525,000          ICB                   No          Prior
   ~    ~

             Equipment                                                                          08
             Purchase(2.4)

    (b) All ICB and all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.           The
    Procurement Plan specifies other procurement methods and prior review thresholds.




                                                     52

      2. Consulting Services
      (a) List of consulting assignmentswith short-li: of international firms.


      Ref. No.    Description of Assignment


                                                                                        Post)         Date
                  Modelingof EDWC for FloodControl           $900,000        QCBS      Prior          2/15/2008
                  Management;EDWC DamSafety;
                  CoastalLowlandsDrainageAnalysis;
                  Installationof HydrologicMonitoring
                  Equipment and DataCapture
                  (1.2; 1.3; 1.4; 2.2)

      (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract (firms) and
      all single source selection of consultants (firms and individuals) regardless of contract amount as
      well as individual consultant contracts estimated to cost above US$50,000 will be subject to prior
      review by the Bank. The Procurement Plan specifies procurement methods and prior review
      thresholds, as outlined inthe table below.

      (c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
      estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of
      national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
      Guidelines.




     Consulting       Service..    >100                   QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS, CQS                     All
     Firms
                                                                                                    TOR only (by
~                                  c100-
        ~                                                 QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS, CQS
                                                                                                    TTL)
                                                                                                       ~-
                                                                                                ~




                                   Regardlessof value Single Source                                 All
     Consulting        Service.    >50                    Comparisonof 3 CVs inaccordance           All (by TTL)
     Indiv.                       I                      1with ChapterV of Guidelines
                                   c50                                                              TOR only (by
                                  I                                                              IIITTL)
                                   Regardlessof value Single Source
                                                         I                                          All (by TTL)

       Note: QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection; QBS = Quality-Based Selection; FBS = Fixed Budget Selection ;
      LCS = Least-Cost Selection; CQS = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications




                                                            53

                                           ANNEX 9: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
                                       Guyana: ConservancyAdaptation Project

       According to the 2005 Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC)
       damage assessment, total losses to Guyana resulting from the heavy rains of January 2005
       amounted to US$465 million, or 59 percent of the countries Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In
       Region 4, the most densely populated area in the country, 71 percent of residents were affected,
       while 20 percent of those in neighboring Region 5 were impacted. Damages were the result of
       flooding due to above average rainfall and overtopping in some areas of the EDWC dam. In
       lowland areas, flood waters persisted for nearly a month and the death toll reached 34, of which
       27 were due to water borne diseases..

       The following year, the January 2006 floods took a heavy toll on the inhabitants of Region 5.
       While many in Region 4 were spared from floodwaters, because the Mihaica and Mihaicony
       rivers overtopped severely, a significant portion of agricultural production was lost, in addition to
       the damage incurred to households and livelihoods.

       In both cases, the EDWC dam was structurally weakened, but the integrity of the system
       remained intact. Yet, due to the pressure on the dam over the past two years, the system i s
       weaker now than it was prior to 2005 - leaving the EDWC system more vulnerable to collapse
       than ever before. Should similar rains occur in the future, it is increasingly likely that the dam
       will collapse and flood Regions 4 and 5.

       The consequencesof a dam breach would be catastrophic. The majority of the populated coastal
       zone, including the capital city, would remain submerged for several months, impacting homes
       and livelihoods. The inability to expunge water from saturated soils would put significant
       pressureon the social structure of the country and could lead to a disintegration of the rule of law.

       Based on the partial flooding of Region 4 in 2005, it is estimated that the economic loss resulting
       from a system breach could range between three and four times Guyana's annual GDP. In
       addition, replacement costs for the EDWC are estimated between US$200-300 million. While
       the EDWC is being reconstructed, it would be incapable of holding irrigation water necessary for
       agricultural production during the dry seasons. As a result, agricultural production, which
       accounts for nearly 40 percent of GDP, could fall by over 20 percent annually until a new dam
       was constructed. Moreover, unpredictable social costs that may result from a breakdown of the
       rule of law have the potential to be even more damaging

       It is clear, therefore, that the economic benefits of interventions aimed at strengthening the

_ _    infrastructure within the EDWC systemcannot be quantified. Furthermore, the main focus of this
       project is l i m i t e a m o p i n i c e r t a i n t o o l s o improve tWGOG'snd donor' understanding of
       the EDWC system and identify key interventions that may be made in the future, and while doing
       so to also make some small infrastructure investments within the limited resources available to
       increase the drainage capacity of the EDWC as much as possible to reduce the likelihood of
       system collapse that would affect the majority of Guyana's population for several months. The
       economic analysis was therefore limited to considering the pros and cons of the civil works
       alternatives that would decrease the likelihood of EDWC collapse by relieving pressure on a 8
       milenorth-eastern portion of the dam which was particularly weakened duringthe floods of 2005
       and 2006. The alternatives considered, their cost and relative advantages and disadvantagesare as
       follows:



                                                                     54

    Alternative 1-Reconstitute Shanks Canal from northern dam to Atlantic Ocean
            o Cost -US$5 million
            o Would require Involuntary Resettlement

    Alternative 2 - Increase water flow at Landof Cannan Sluice gate by lowering the si1
            o Cost -US$6 million
            o Uncertain impact until internalconservancy flows are modeled

    Alternative 3 - Strengthen weakened dam with temporary repairs
            o Cost -US$10million
            o Temporary repairs may not be sufficient to relieve pressure.
            o Reputational risk.

    Alternative 4 - Widen Cuffy Canal
            o Cost -US$l.2 million
            o Benefit -Double discharge capacity from 80 m3/sec. to 150m3/sec.

    Alternative 5 - Reconstitute Cuhna Canal
            o Cost -US$1.2 million
            o Benefit -Increasedischarge capacity from 25 m3/sec.to 150 m3/sec.
            o Temporary bridge construction less expensive and easier to complete with less
                traffic interruptions than the Cuffy Canal

Alternative 5 was selectedbasedon least cost, maximum improvement in discharge capacity, and
ease of implementation.




                                                55

                                 ANNEX 10: SAFEGUARD POLICY ISSUES
                                   Guyana: Conservancy Adaptation Project

                                       IntegratedSafeguards Data Sheet

        I.A.1. Project Statistics

        Country:                 Guyana
        Project ID:              P103539
        Project:                 Conservancy Adaptation Project (CAP)
        Task Team Leader:        Francis Ghesquiere

        I.A.2. Project Objectives:

        The objective of the CAP is to reduce the vulnerability of catastrophic flooding in Guyana's low-
        lying coastal area that is currently threatened by sea level rise resulting from global climate
        change.

        This objective will be achieved through a) strengthening the Government of Guyana's (GoG) and
        donor understanding of the East Demerara Water Conservancy (EDWC) system and coastal plain
        drainage regimes while identifying key drainage regimes for follow-on intervention; b)
        implementing infrastructure investments aimed at increasing the drainage capacity of the EDWC;
        c) strengthening institutional capacity of the GoG to manage water levels in the EDWC and to
        guide interventions aimed reducingGuyana's vulnerability to floods.

        At project completion, the GoG will be in possession of a master plan for future upgrading of the
        EDWC for flood control management. Possible interventions for at least 10key drainage regimes
        would have been identified and presented to the donor community, and the drainage relief
        capacity of the EDWC to the Demerara River by will be increasedby at least 35 percent.

        I.A.3. Project Description:

        The project will finance the development of the technical foundation for a master plan of future
        interventions within the EDWC and lowland drainage systems, as well as specific upgrading
        works and operational improvements aimed at enhancing the flood control capacity of the
        EDWC. The tools developed under the analytical component of the CAP will be used by the
        GoG and donor agencies to guide future investments.

        Component 1 - Pre-investment studies for engineering design of works (US$2.0 mil): The
        objective ofthis component is to provide the hydrologic basefine n e c e s s a i j j o s m p l a t i n g
~    ~~




        rational interventions aimed at increasing the current discharge capacity of the flood control
        system. The key outcome of these pre-investment studies will be a topographic model of the
        inhabited coastal plain to be used as the basis for hydrologic analysis of the region under
        projected climate scenarios.    The results from this component will pinpoint key areas of
        intervention to increase discharge capacity critical for flood zone management. Pre-engineering
        designs will be completed for a set of prioritized interventions. An environmental assessment
        will be completed for each of these prioritized interventions.      Specialized staff within the
        following agencies will be trained in the application of the analytical tools produced: National
        Drainage and Irrigation Authority, the Lands and Surveys Commission, the Ministry of Works



                                                        56

River and Sea Defense Division, the Guyana Environmental Protection Agency and the Civil
Defense Commission.

Component 2 - Investments in specific adaptation measures (US$ 2.7 mil - US$1.5 mil and $1.2
million Government of Guyana): The objective of this component is to counteract the effects of
sea level rise, which has decreased the GoG's ability to manage water levels of the EDWC
system. The investments will improve the ability of the Government to manage water levels
behind the EDWC dam during heavy rains by improving internal water flows in the EDWC and
increasing EDWC drainage relief capacity to the Demerara River and eventually the Atlantic
Ocean. By the end of project, activities under this component should result in an increased
drainage capacity of the EDWC to the Demerara River by roughly 35 percent (the exact figure
will be finalized during the first year of implementation). The GoG, through the NDIA, will
direct additional investment inthe strengthening of drainage and irrigation infrastructure basedon
the engineering foundation to be developed under Component 1.

Component 3 - InstitutionalStrengthening and Project Management (US$0.3 mil): The objective
of this component is to strengthen the institutional framework for flood control within the context
of the national emergency management sector headed by the Civil Defense Commission. The
project will finance activities to better assess the current needs of the actors involved in the flood
control and emergency management and will work together with the concerned parties to develop
a national framework for a more streamlined approach to hazard and risk management in the
country. The project will also support consultations with civil society and the donor community
to create consensus around a medium and long term intervention strategy to help the country
adapt to sea level rise. The key outcome of the analysis and project management component will
be improved Government effectiveness in managing floods and other emergencies. With clear
lines of responsibility in times of urgent need as well as times of calm, the GoG will be better
equipped to manage flood control policy.

I.A.4. Project Location:

The project will focus on activities inRegion4, the most populated regionof the country. This is
the area downstream of the EDWC dam and EDWC system. Mapping and system analysis will
be conducted in coastal regions 3, 4 and 5 to provide the analytical basis for managing coastal
hydrology.

EnvironmentalClassification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: The project will finance some small civil works which to widen a drainage canal.
Two candidate canals have been selected and both will require significant upgrading and the
construction of a bridge along a major north-south corridor. An environmental assessment will
be require&h7kerworks        are selected. thas therefore been classifiedas category "B"or the            ~    ~~~




purpose of OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment.

Other works include minor repairs to existing infrastructure and will be subject to environmental
management contract clauses provided to the executing agency for inclusion in civil works
contracts.

All other components are analytical innature and will develop data and tools for the evaluation of
the performance of the drainage network in the EDWC and adjacent coastal areas.




                                                  57

         PolicyTriggered:

         EnvironmentalAssessment(OP 4.01, BP4.01, GP 4.01)
         (*) Yes
         ON0
         ( )TBD

         NaturalHabitats(OP4.04, BP4.04, GP4.04)
         (* ) Yes
         0No
         ( 1TBD




         CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03)
         (*)Yes
         0No
         ( ) TBD




         InvoluntaryResettlement (OPBP 4.12)
         ( ) Yes1
         (*>No
         ( )TBD

         Safety of dams (OP4.37, BP4.37)
         (* ) Yes
         0No:
      --                                                                       -
~~                                                                    ~    ~~




         Projects inInternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP7.50)
         ( 1Yes1
         ("1 No
         ()TBD

         Projects inDisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP7.60)"
         ( 1Yes
         (*>No



                                                      58

Section I1 Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
           -
1I.D.la. Describe any safeguard issuesand impacts associatedwith the project. Identify and
describe any potentiallarge scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

Environmental Assessment (EA) (OPLBP4.01)

An environmental management framework will be developed and publicly disclosed through the
Infoshop in Washington and within Guyana. This framework includes: a) a description of the
project; b) a description of the safeguardstriggered and project mechanisms to ensure compliance
with each; c) Terms of Reference for analytical work that will result inan engineering tool that is
to be used as a foundation for determining the environmental impacts of follow-on interventions;
d) procedures and requirements for sub-project specific EAs to be conducted during project
implementation; and e) a description of the project's strategy for public consultation, during both
project preparation and implementation.

Civil works funded under this project may include the widening of the Cuffy andor Cuhna outlet
structures. These activities will require the construction of a bridge along a major north-south
thoroughfare. Environmental impacts will be limited to the construction sites and will result in a
temporary impact to local traffic. An Environmental Assessment will be conducted during the
engineering design stage of the project component to address these issues. These two structures
lead directly to the Demerara River. The only function of these canals is to provide relief
capacity to the EDWC system to protect the EDWC dam during the two rainy annual seasons.
These canals are not associated with the irrigation or potable water supply functions of the
EDWC system. While not expected to have an adverse impact on conservancy, an additional site-
specific EA will be completed for the improvement of water flow systems within the EDWC.
Remaining civil works are limited to repairs to existing structures and are classified as category
C. These works will be contracted using appropriate environmental management clauses to
assure contactor compliance with acceptedenvironmental practices.

A key output of the analytical work will be an engineering tool that is to be used to as a
foundation for determining the environmental impacts of follow-on interventions. With the
development and use of a detailed digital elevation model, local watershed characteristics and
drainage regimes will be mapped and modeled, creating the basis for future engineering
interventions. A separate report will be developed, basedon the analytical work undertaken in the
project, which will specifically addresses the likely environmental impacts of future
interventions. Expected hydraulic impacts, as well as changes in water quality, natural habitats,
land use, livelihoods and analysis of alternative strategies will be considered. Based on this
information, an intervention strategy will be developed.



A portion of the project takes place within the EDWC. This is a man made structure that is
considered a natural habitat. No adverse impacts to the conservancy are envisioned under the
project. At the same time, by improving the drainage capacity of the EDWC and assessing the
weak portion of the EDWC Dam, the project aims to ensure that this natural habitat remains in
tact.




                                                59

        Forests (OP/BP 4.36)

        The southern portion of the EDWC is bordered by a forest. No physical work is envisioned
        within 10 miles of this forest and no adverse impacts to the forest are envisioned under the
        project. Moreover, improvements in water flows within the EDWC are expected to have no
        impact on the borderingforest.

        Safety of Dams (OP/BP4.37)

        The EDWC is bordered to the north by a 30 mile long earthen dam constructed some 150 years
        ago. The dam has been heavily stressed particularly during the past two flood events (2004-5,
        2005-6). While no civil works are to be conducted on the dam, a detailed engineering assessment
        of the dam and its associated drainage structures is to be completed under the project. This will
        provide the engineering and safety guidance to the GoG for the design and development of any
        dam strengthening programs.

        The engineering analysis developed under the present project will provide the technical basis for
        the GoG to fulfill the requirements for an expert engineering assessment of the weakened portion
        of the EDWC Dam provided under this safeguard. Upon receipt of the dam engineering and
        safety assessment, and as part of implementation of the project, the World Bank will contract
        independent experts to assess and to validate the quality of the report.

        1I.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one
        safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.

        No negative long term impacts are expected to materialize as a result of the project.         By
        improving the drainage capacity of the EDWC and assessing the weak portion of the EDWC
        Dam, the project aims to ensure that this natural habitat remains in tact.

        II.D.lc Describe any potentiallong term impacts due to anticipated future activities inthe
        project area.

        The project is expected to have no adverse impacts.

        II.D.2. Inlight of 1,describethe proposedtreatment of alternatives (ifrequired)

        Not required

        II.D.3. Describearrangementfor the borrower to addresssafeguardissues:

-~
   ~    w--emhmderthis                                    project, only two will need to be addressed in
        depth. The man-made natural habitat of the EDWC will benefit from the project through the
        increased discharge capacity of the system. This will reduce the risk of a dam breach that would
        negatively affect the natural habitat. A forest does border the southern portion of the EDWC, but
        because investments will be made nowhere in the proximity of the forest, the project will have
        neither negative nor positive impacts. The sites of physical work to take place under the project
        have been surveyed by Bank technical staff. Based on their assessment, the likelihood of cultural
        resources to be found at the project sites is extremely low. However, "chance find" procedures
        will be included inthe contract for this work.




                                                         60

Regarding the environmental assessment the engineering firm contracting to carry out the
analytical work will be responsible for developing site specific environmental assessments for the
widening of outlet canals and improvement in water flows behind the EDWC. Additionally, their
work program will include a separate report on the possible environmental impacts of future
drainage sector improvements. Both the engineering firm and the Implementation Secretariat will
be responsible for ensuring that these measures are following duringphysical work.

Safety of Dams will also be addressedby the engineering firm. The firm will be responsible for
completing the dam safety analysis and proposing short and medium term interventions aimed at
strengthening the dam.       The Implementation Secretariat will ensure that these outputs are
complete and will be supported with technical expertise provided by the World Bank.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosureon safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

Relief Drainage Improvements - the primary beneficiaries' population located to the north of the
EDWC dam as the improved relief capacity will reduce the risk of catastrophic dam failure and
subsequent flooding. This area represents over 70 percent of the countries population, local
authorities, and local civil society that have been closely involved in the development of the
proposed strategy. If the improvement of the Cuhna canal is to be considered, the Barama
Lumber Company is the only activity directly affected by the works. Additionally, Ministry of
Works will be closely involved with any constructions associatedwith the north-southroadway.

E.Safeguards Classification:

[ 3   SI.    Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and
institutional risksin management of one or more safeguard areas;
[XI S2. One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and
are technically and institutionally manageable;
[ ] S3. No safeguardissues;
[ ] SF. Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven
development or similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach
to address safeguard issues.


Environmental Assessment/Analysis/anagement Plan:
Expected:                         March 15, 2007 _______________________________
                                                                              Actual: March 13,2007




                                               61

               ANNEX 11:PROJECTPREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION
                         Guyana: ConservancyAdaptation Project

                                                 Planned                       Actual
PCNreview                                        4/25/06                      4/25/06
Initial PIDto PIC                                                             11/29/06
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                           11/29/06
Appraisal                                        1/25/07                      2/02/07
Negotiations                                     1/25/07                      3115/07
BoardIRVPapproval                                11/08/07
Planneddate of effectiveness                     11/15/07
Planneddate of mid-termreview                    3115/09
Plannedclosingdate                               12131/10

Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationof the project:Ministry of Agriculture, Government
of Guyana

Bank staff andconsultants who worked on the projectincluded:

Name                                        Title                             Unit
FrancisGhesquiere                    Task TeamLeader                        LCSUW
Marc Forni                               Economist                          LCSUW
Jorge Kamine                              Counsel                           LEGLA
JudithMorroy                        ProcurementAnalyst                       LCSFT
GeraldMeier                         EnvironmentalSpec.                    Consultant
EmmanuelN.Njomo                    FinancialMgmt. Spec.                   Consultant
RossA. Gartley                   ExtendedTerm Consultant                    LCSUW
Hank Ogink                           HydraulicEngineer                    Consultant

Bankfunds expendedto date on projectpreparation:
     1. Bank resources:
     2. Trust funds:
     3. Total:

EstimatedApprovaland Supervisioncosts:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval:
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$75,000




                                              62

                           ANNEX 12: DOCUMENTSINTHE PROJECTFILE
                                Guyana: Conservancy Adaptation Project

           1. Augustinus, P., G., E.,F. 2004. The influence of the trade winds on the coastal
               development of Guyana's at various scale levels: a synthesis. Marine Geology 208, Pp
               145 - 151.

          2. Carton, J. A+,and S. A. Grodsky, 2005. Sea level rise and the warming of the oceans in
               the Simple OceanData Assimilation (SODA) ocean reanalysis. Journal Of Geophysical
               Research, Vol. 110, doi:l0.1029/2004JC002817.

          3. Chung-yen Kuo 2006. Determination and characterization of 20 century global sea
               level rise. PhDDissertation, Report No. 478, Geodetic Science and Surveying,
               Department of Geological Sciences,The Ohio StateUniversity ,Columbus Ohio.

          4. Government of Guyana, Environmental Protection Agency. 2000. Final Report On A
               Socio-Economic Assessment Of The Vulnerability Of Guyana's Coast.

          5. Government of Guyana, Environmental ProtectionAgency. 2002. Guyana's National
               Vulnerability Assessment to Sea Level Rise.

          6. Government of Guyana, Environmental ProtectionAgency. 2000. Integrated Coastal
               Zone Management Action Plan 2000.

          7. Government of Guyana. 2002. Guyana Initial National Communication InResponseTo
               Its Commitments To The UNFCCC 2002.

          8. Houghton, J., T., et al. ed. 2001. Climate Change 2001: The Scientific Basis. The Press
               Syndicate Of The University Of Cambridge, UnitedKingdom, Pp. 881.

          9. Mott Mott MacDonald, 2005. Government of Guyana Task Forcefor Infrastructure
               Rehabilitation: Draft Report On Conservancy FloodManagement Modelling.

          10. Mott MacDonald. 2005. Report of Visit By Dams Specialist.

          11. Mott MacDonald. 2004. Guyana Drainage and Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
              Hydrology and Water Resources: Final Report.


- ~ ~ _ _ _12. Mott_MacDonald. 2005. Government of Guyana Task Force for Infrastructure Recovery
            _ _ - _
              InfrastructureRehabTitationShort toMediumTerm Plan: Final Report 12July 2005.

          13. Mott Macdonald. 2005. Government of Guyana Task Force for Infrastructure
              Rehabilitation Conservancy FloodManagement Modelling: Model Update Report

          14. NoguCs-Paegle,J., et al. 2002. Progress inPan American C h a r Research:
              Understanding The South American Monsoon. Meteorologica 27 (1y 2) Pp. 1-30.

          15. Nurmohamed, N.,0,Van Duin. 2005. UNDAC Mission to Guyana - Geotechnical and
              Hydraulic Assessment -Concept.



                                                     63

           16. Rogers, J. 1987. PrecipitationVariability Over the Caribbean and Tropical Americas
               Associated With the Southern Oscillation. J. Climate 1 172-182.

           17. Rowel, D.,P. 1998. Assessing Potential SeasonalPredictability with an Ensemble of
               Multidecadal GCM Simulations. J. of Climate ,Vol. 11, Pp109-120.

           18. Royal Haskoning, Delft Hydraulics. 2004. InstitutionalCapacity BuildingActivities on
               Guyana Sea Defences, Bathymetric Survey Report. HaskoningNederlandBv, Reference
               9M5198.2l/RGO19/FRW/Guy.

           19. Royal Haskoning, DelftHydraulics. 2004. InstitutionalCapacity BuildingActivities on
               Guyana Sea Defences, Levelling Report. HaskoningNederlandBv, Reference
               9M5198.2l/RGO19/FRW/Guy.

           20. Royal Haskoning, Delft Hydraulics. 2004. InstitutionalCapacity BuildingActivities on
               Guyana Sea Defences,Volume 1Executive Summary - 9M5198.21/H4095.

           21. Royal Haskoning, Delft Hydraulics. 2004. InstitutionalCapacity BuildingActivities on
               Guyana Sea Defences,Volume 2 Flow Modelling Report - 9M5198.2103G047 / H4095.

           22. Royal Haskoning, Delft Hydraulics. 2004. Institutional Capacity BuildingActivities on
               Guyana Sea Defences,Volume 3 Wave ModellingReport - 9M5198.21RG047NL/
               H4095.

           23. Royal Haskoning, Delft Hydraulics. 2004. InstitutionalCapacity BuildingActivities on
               Guyana Sea Defences,Volume 4 Morphology ModellingReport - M 5198.21/RG047/WL
              / H4095.

           24. Seth, A., F.Giorgi, 1996Three-dimensional Model Study of Organized Mesoscale
               Circulations Inducedby Vegetation. J. Geophysical Research, 104(D3) 7371-7391

           25. Seth, A., B.Rojas, B.Liebmann, and J. H.Qian. 2004. Daily rainfall analysis for South
               America from a regional climate model and station observations. Geophysical Research
               Letters, Vol. 31, L07213, Doi:10.1029/2003g1019220.

           26. Singh, B. 1997. Climate Changes InThe Greater And Southern Caribbean. International
               Journal of Climatology, Vol. 17, 1093-1114.

           27. World Bank. 2005. Guyana: Preliminary Damage and Needs Assessment Followingthe
      L n t e n s i v e ~ioocisof January ,2005.                               _ _ _ _ _ _ ~            ~~




~    ~




           28. Vorosmarty, C.J., M. Routhier, A. Wright, T. Baker. C.A. Fernandez-Jauregui, M.C.
               Donoso, 1998. A Regional Hydrometeorological Data Network for South America,
               Central America, and the Caribbean (R-HydroNET vl.0).

           29. HR Wallingford, 2005. Guidelines for Socio-economic FloodDamage Evaluation.
              FLOODsite Project Report, Contract No:GOCE-CT-2004-505420




                                                     64

                            ANNEX 13: STATEMENT OF LOANSAND CREDITS
                                      Guyana: ConservancyAdaptation Project

                                                                                                        ~~


                                                                                                              Differencebetween
                                                                                                              expectedandactual
                                                         OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                           disbursements

Project    FY   Purpose                               IBRD       IDA      SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb.     Orig.   Frm.Rev'd
ID
PO88030   2006  GY (CRL) Water SectorConsolidation      0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      9.88      1.90       0.00
                Proj
PO76722   2004  GY:HIV/AIDSPREVENTION&                  0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      8.60      3.44       0.00
                CONTROL
PO74762   2003  GY Public SectorTech. Assistance        0.00      4.76    0.00      0.00    0.00      1.66      1.09       0.65
                Credit
                                              Total:    0.00      4.76    0.00      0.00    0.00     20.14      6.43       0.65




                                                 STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                               Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                                 InMillions of US Dollars


                                                          Committed                                Disbursed
                                                         IFC                                     IFC
    FY Approval Company                      Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic.   Loan       Equity      Quasi    Partic.
    1998        GuyamBank                    0.00         1.oo      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.50       0.00       0.00
    2006        GuyanaGoldfield              0.00         4.75      0.00     0.00       0.00      4.75       0.00       0.00

                           Totalportfolio:     0.00       5.75      0.00     0.00       0.00      5.25       0.00       0.00




                                                                       Approvals PendingCommitment
                FY Approval     Company                            Loan      Equity       Quasi       Partic.




                                      Total pendingcommitment:     0.00       0.00        0.00           0.00




                                                               65

                                 ANNEX 14: COUNTRY A T A GLANCE
                                Guyana: Conservancy Adaptation Project


                                                                Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Amarlca middle-
                                                      Guvane & Carib. Income    Development dlamond.
2005
Popuiation,mid-year(millions)                            0.75      551   2,475
GNIpercapita(Atias method, US$)                          100    4,008    1,OB              Liteeqectancy

GNI(Atlas method, US$billions)                           0.76    2,20    4,747
Average annual growth, 1999-05
Population p/S,                                           0 2       14      10
Laborforce (?/6                                            11      2 2      14  GNI                               Gross
                                                                                per                              primary
M os1 recent astlmate (latest year avallable, 1999-05)                          capita                        enrollment
Poverty (%of population belownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation (%of lotalpopulation)                      28      77      50
Lifee-ectancyat birth (wars)                               64      72      70                    I
Infant mortality(per 1OWlivebirths)                        48      27      33
Childmalnutrition (Xofchildrenunder5)                      14        7      P       Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)
Literacypkof population age a+)                            83       91     82
                                                                           89
Gross primaryenroiiment (%of school-agepopuiation)        09       t90
                                                                    m      it4   -Guyana
  Male                                                    134      E1      115     .-.Lowar-middie-incomegroup
  Female                                                  0 5      m       m
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1985     1995    2004    2005    Economic ratios'
GDP (Us$ billions)                               0.45    0.62     0.79    0.78
Grosscapital formatiorJGDP                       35.8     317     23.6
Egorts of goods andSeNiCeSlGDP                   48.1    012      95.8                         Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       22.0    22.3      0.7
Gross national savings/GDP                          ..    15.4    20.0
Currentaccount balance1GDP                      -213     -14.4    -4.6
Interestpayments/GDP                             2.9      5.0       17
Totaldebt/GDP                                  335.3    340.4    189.4
Total debt setvice/eqorts                        27.7     16.3     5.7
Present value 01 debtlGDP                                         64.6                            1
Present value 01 debt/exports                                     592
                                                                                            Indebtedness
                                   1985-95 1995-05     2004     2005 2005-09
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                     2.1        12      16     -2.8            -Guyana
GDP percapita                           2.4       0.9      14     -2.9                  Lo war-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods andsemices              8.4       0.5




                                                              66

   STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                 1985     1995      2004      2005
   (%of GDP)                                                                            Growth of capltal and GDP       ( O h )

   Agriculture                                     26.8     412       313               " T
   Industry                                        24.6     32.6      27.0
     Manufacturing                                 0.9       n 4       9.6
   Services                                        48.5     26.1      417

   Householdlinalconsumption eqenditure            59.9     62.7      59.0
   Generalgov't linalconsumption eqenditure         18.1    15.0      272
   Imports of goods andservices                    619      W.1      n5.7               :p-
                                             1985-95 1995-05        2004      2005
   (averageannualgmMh)                                                                 /Growth of exports and Imports          ( O h ) 1
   Agriculture                                      3.2      13        2.9
   Industry                                         2 2      10       -02
     Manufacturing                                  0.9      0.4       2.3
   Services                                         13       2.1       19
                                                                                        5
   Householdfinal consumption eqenditure           -0.9      3.5
   Generalgov't finalconsumption eqenditure         4.8     n.0
   Gross capitalformation                           9.0     -4.9
   Imports of goods andservices                     7.4      15                               -Exports          -9-lrrports



   Note:2005 data are preliminaryestimates.
   This table was producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database.
   'Thediamonds showfourkeyindicators inthecountry(in boId)comparedwithits income-groupaverage.Ifdata aremissing,thediamondwill
     beincomDlete.




                                                                                                                        Guvana

PRICES andGOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                               1985     1995     2004
Domestlc prlceo
(%change)
Consumer prices                                          P.2        4.7
Implicit GDP deflator                           14.5     P.4        6.7
Government finance
(%of GDP,includescurrent grants)
Current revenue                                 40.0     35.1      39.6        ..    .51
Current budget balance                         -36.6     0.0        7.4
Overall surplus/deficit                        -54.4     -3.9      -0.7                      -GDP       deflator  -CPI


TRADE
                                               1985     1995     2004     2005
(Us$millions)
Total exports (fob)                             214      496       569
 Rice                                            73       77        55
 Sugar                                           66      P6         0 7
 Manulactures                                     21     n 5
Total imports (cil)                             226      535       646
 Food                                              5      44
 Fuel andenergy                                           90        169
 Capital goods                                   66      188        0 6
Eporl price index(ZOOW..WO)                      86       P1        t15
Import price index(ZOOO=WO)                               98        P2
Terms of trade (ZOOW..WO)                                P 4        95




                                                                      67

BALANCE Of PAYMENTS
                                              1985     1995      2004     2005
(US$ millions)                                                                      Current account balance 10 GDP (%)

~ v o r t of goods andservices
          s                                     262      629       753
Imports of goods andservices                     3 u     698        831
Resource balance                                  -51    -67        -77

Net income                                       -40     -54         43
Net current transfers                                                84
Current account balance                          -97     -89        -36
Financing items (net)                                     67
Changes innet reserves                                     2
Memo:
Reservesincluding goid (US$ millions)                    269        225
Conversion rate (DEC,IocaI/US$)                  4.3   M2.0        88.3    2016

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                              1985     1995      2004     2005
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 2004 debt (US$ mlll.)

Total debt outstanding anddisbursed            1521     2,lB       1331
  iBRD                                            65      35          0       0  I
  IDA                                             27     203        246     226                 0:'01

Total debt service                                73      0 9        49
  IBRD                                              6       9         1       0
  IDA                                               0      2          3       6
Composition of ne1resourceflows
  Olficiai grants                                   8      21        74
  Officialcreditors                               52       5         46
  Private creditors                                -5     - a        -1
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)           2     74         30
  Portfolio equiiy(net inflows)                     0      0          0            1                 D: 605
World Bank program
  Commitments                                             22          0
  Disbursements                                            B          7       2     A. IBRD                     E. Eilat83
                                                                                    B IDA
                                                                                      .                         F. Private
  Principal repayments                                                                       D .Ottw mLltilatsd
                                                            7         2       4     C-IMF                       G . Shxt-tsfr
  Net flows                                                11         5      -2
  Interest payments                                         5         2       2
  Net transfers                                             6         3      -4


Note:This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.                                            8/t3/06




                                                                      68

                            ANNEX 15: ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                            Guyana: Conservancy Adaptation Project

The Guyana CAP requests US$3.8 million of Global Environment Facility Special Climate
Change Fund (GEF SCCF) funding. For projects requiring between US$1 million and US$5
million, the SCCF will finance upto one-third of the costs of the project.

The US$20 million project goes well beyond this requirement with the Government of Guyana
willing to commit US$15 million to the project, through the National Drainage and Irrigation
Authority (NDIA) and other government agencies involved in sea defense and flood control.

The GEF contribution represents the additional costs resulting from climate change. Investments
in the East Demerara Water Conservancy (EDWC) drainage infrastructure have historically been
made for two reasons. First, as an old and complex drainage system, regular maintenance and
repairs are requiredto ensure the system remains functioning. Second, as the water needs of the
country expand, investment must be made in the expansion of the network of drainage canals and
water storages. These two recurringcosts have been financed by the GoG, which has been able
to maintain a system that worked satisfactorily, despite the relatively unorganized and ad-hoc
approach that has been taken in the past.

As a result of sea level rise, a third cost to the system has materialized. Due to the existing and
anticipated rise insea level, systemupgradesmust now be madeto enhance the existing discharge
capacity to compensate for the shrinkingdrainage window. Strengthening the system to adapt to
a shorter drainage window caused by sea level rise will require significant investment in the
current drainage and irrigation system. Without the US$3.8 million GEF investment, the NDIA
would continue to maintain the status quo of EDWC, not taking into account the increased stress
on the existing system and the need to increasethe discharge capacity.

The GEF contribution is also expected to serve as a catalyst that would bring in additional
resources from bilateral and multilateral sources to support adaptation measures. Once an
engineering foundation has been built for upgrading the EDWC, the donor community will be
able to engage in a long-term investment program that adapts to the negative effects of climate
change on the system. Considering the scale of the challenge, this approach is most appropriate
to address the obstacles faced by Guyana as a result of the impacts of climate change.




                                                  69

                                  ANNEX 16: GEFSTAP REVIEW
                              Guyana: Conservancy Adaptation Project
                                     Professor Bhawan Singh, PhD

   The objective of the proposed Conservancy Adaptation Project (CAP) is to assistthe Government
   of Guyana in adapting to on-going and future global climate changes by mitigating the risk of
   catastrophic flooding of its vital coastal areas. This will be achieved through an increase in
   drainage relief capacity and the development of a long-term physical adaptation program
   designed to improve the drainage relief capacity of the East Demerara Water Conservancy
   (EDWC) and coastal lowlands systems.

   Much of the land now in use in northern Guyana along the Atlantic coast lies in the coastal zone
   below the mean high tide level of around 54 ft Guyana Datum (GD). This land was reclaimed
   from tidal areas and is protected by an intricate network of seawalls, dykes, polders and drainage
   structures. Guyana's agrarian economy, based mainly on sugarcane and rice, which contributes
   over 35 percent to the GDP, is highly dependent on this coastal drainage and irrigation system as
   are the homes and businessesof the region.

   The East Demerara Water Conservancy (EDWC), variously constructed of clay, earth and organic
   material (pegasse), is the major conservancy system in Guyana. The EDWC i s a freshwater
   impoundment located in Region 4, 15 miles south of the most densely populated section of
   Guyana along the Atlantic coast. It is bounded to the north by a 40 mile earthen dam structure
   built some 150 years ago and to the south by the natural topographic rise composed largely of
   ancient coastal dune formations. The area consists of an impoundment of approximately 550
   hectares and ranges in depth from 12 to approximately 15 feet along the dam. Drainage of the
   EDWC has been managed through the use of gravity based systems augmented with pumps, but
   the systemhas suffered from the impacts of sea level rise over the past century. Recently, a series
   of severe storms during the two rainy seasons, the strongest between June and July and less
   intense season between December and January, have further stressed the drainage and water
   storage system and, at the present time, the reclaimed coastal areas are highly susceptible to
   flooding. Given the forecasted impacts of global climate change and sea level rise, the risk of
   future flooding, even duringnormal weather events, is increasing significantly.

   Over two-thirds of Guyana's 750,000 citizens live near or below sea-level along the coast below
   the EDWC dam. They are concentrated in a 30 mile band along the coast, between Georgetown
   and the Mahaica River, protected from the Atlantic Ocean by the Guyana sea defense network.
   The EDWC serves as a source of all drinking water for, Georgetown, the capital, and the other
   major urban centers, but primarily serves to supply agricultural irrigation water during the dry

~-~~~
   seasons.
         ~~                        ~~                                 ~          ._ -
                                                                                    .


   However, the EDWC conservancy relief canals are currently operating with severe limitations as
   changes in landuse and local increases in sea level have greatly limited their effectiveness. The
   degradation of the EDWC system has been compounded by a number of recent severe weather
   events, such as the floods of 2004-2005. Overtopping of the Dam during these rains, in addition
   to significant dam creeping, has weakened the integrity of an already vulnerable system.

   The scope and urgency of the threat of a failure of the EDWC system is further exacerbated by
   the effects of climate change on the regional water cycle. Apart from the reduced effectiveness of
   the canal drainage system, increases in sea level have reduced the time available for canal



                                                   70

discharge operations. Furthermore, while climate models suggest that climate change is gradually
reducing the annual rainfall to the region, there is concern that intensity of storm events will
increase, thereby creating a condition for delivering more water over shorter periods of time.

The CAP project i s intended to finance specific upgrading works and operational improvements
aimed at enhancing the water management capacity of the EDWC during critical flood periods
and provide a comprehensive analytical tool to plan future interventions within the system. The
tools developed under the analytical component of the project are expected to be leveraged by the
International Development Bank (IDB) to develop a more involved and comprehensive US$25
million flood management project. It is also expected that other donors, who have expressed
interest in the program, will participate as the program evolves in the future.

The CAP project being proposed to the GEF (Global Environmental Facility) consists of three
major components:

1. Infrastructure civil works and operational improvements: The project will finance key
    infrastructure interventions to the EDWC. Works to be financed by the GEF will focus on
    improving the ability of the Government of Guyana to manage water levels behind the
    EDWC dam during heavy rains by improving internal water flows in the EDWC and
    increasing EDWC drainage relief capacity to the Demerara River. Improvements to the
    EDWC dam are not contemplated under this GEF grant, on account of its broad scope and
    high cost. But the initial civil works and operational improvements under this CAP project,
    namely the engineering safety assessment and analysis of the dam structure, is expected to be
    used to leverage a larger IDB initiative to undertake major improvements to the EDWC
    system.

    The GEF fund being solicited is expected to finance a number of urgently needed
    infrastructure interventions within the EDWC, so as to alleviate coastal flooding problems in
    the near term. The interventions envisioned include:

    e         Widening of key drainage relief canals: the Cuffy Canal, which currently operates
          under capacity due to restrictions caused by sedimentation and vegetation growth, and
         possibly widneing of the Cuhna Canal, basedon feasibility and availability of funds.
    e         Improvement of the waterflow system within EDWC: Due to vegetation overgrowth
          and clogging within internal waterways behind the EDWC dam, water is backed up in the
         north eastern part of the EDWC and this impedes the flow of water westward to the
         Demerara drainage structures, as originally designed. For example, the five-door sluice,
          one of the principal water control structures is presently operating at 70 percent
         efficiency. It is anticipated that improving internal EDWC flows will increase discharge
         efficiencies at this structure to near 100percent. GEF funds are therefore being sought to
  - d e v G b ~ a T o n a K Z i E n p T a n aimedtallowing thCGoverniint ofGuyani to carry out
         the necessary upgrading works within the EDWC, to level the hydraulic gradient and to
          improve the drainage relief capacity to the Demerara River. It i s expected that he effect of
         these improvements will significantly increase the western discharge capacity of the
          system and thus reduce the risk of flooding.
    e         Repair of water control structures: a number of sluice gates behind the EDWC are
         not operating efficiently, and in many cases leak water from behind the EDWC dam.
         These structures are to be repaired to so as to improve their efficiencies.

2. Component 2 - System Analysis and Hydrologic baseline. The GEF fund being solicited is
    expected to finance a second component consisting of a variety of analytical works aimed at


                                                  71

providing the hydrologic baseline necessary for contemplating rationale interventions to the
EDWC flood control system. These analyses are intended to find out how drainage regimes
in the populated areas of the coastal lowlands behave, where flood waters originate or where
interventions are going to be effective. Presently, emergency interventions are now being
made without a full understanding of how the current flood control regime functions.
Furthermore, years of neglect coupled with unregulated landuse change has greatly perturbed
the original network of drainage canals and their ability to efficiently remove excess water,
which has resulted in increased flooding of the coastal lowlands. It is also expected that the
results from this component will provide the hydrologic baseline critical for flood zone
management and the design of effective interventions. The analyses contemplated include:

    0      Detailed Topographic and Landuse Mapping: This sub-component of the CAP will
            allow for a detailed topographic and landuse mapping of the EDWC and coastal
            drainage and irrigation systems, and landuse using the construction of digital
            elevation maps (DEMs) in combination with aerial photography coupled with
           LIDAR(light detection andranging) technology. Where necessary,conventional land
            survey techniques will also be used to augment data production. Survey work will be
            tied to the national geodetic grid and vertical datum.
           Hydrologic Modeling of Coastal Lowlands - Under this sub-component of the CAP,
            using the LIDAR derived topographic DEM as baseline, assumedly simple
            hydrologic models will be developed so as to identify and assess water flows within
            the EDWC and surrounding regions. These hydrological model simulations are
            expected to facilitate the identification of flood risks and optimum drainage options
            for flood management and to assist in evaluating the impact of future landuse
            changes on the drainage and flood control system.
           Assessment of EDWC System Integrity: Under this sub-component of the CAP, an
            engineering evaluation of all EDWC structures, including dams, canals, levies,
            sluices and sluice gates, is to be conducted to determine which parts of the system are
            not operational, which need repairs and what needs replacement, so as to allow the
            system to operate at maximum capacity. Furthermore, it is expected that this sub-
           component will be used as a basis for follow-on efforts on the part of the Inter
           American Development Bank and other donors for long-term upgradingworks.
           EDWC Hydraulic Modeling: Under this sub-component, it is envisaged that within
           the EDWC, measurements and data will be collected to produce a system flow
            model. This model, supposedly, will be used to develop improved management
           procedures using refined operational parameters and to identify the improvements in
           drainage infrastructure needed to protect the system from failure. These flow models
           are also expected to help identify key bottlenecks for effective drainage and purging.
           The intended hydraulic model of the EDWC system will be developed, hopefully, to
           evaluate the most effective measures that can be taken to increase the drainage relief
           capacity ofthe EDWC
   ~     ~~~                                                 ~




                                         ~


           Pre-feasibility studiesfor coastal lowland interventions; Inthis sub-component, it is
           proposed that, basedon the results of the hydrologic modeling, and scenario analysis,
           a number of key interventions will be prioritized and presented to the Government of
           Guyana and the donor community to further improve coastal flood controls related to
           the EDWC.
           Operational Capacity Building;        In this sub-component, it is expected that the
           development of an extensive training program will be undertaken so as to allow the
           pertinent Government of Guyana agencies to better understand, operate and maintain
           the EDWC and coastal lowland drainage relief systems.



                                                 72

3.  Component 3- Project Management and Donor coordination: In this component it i s
    expected that the GEF will finance broad consultations with donors, Government and civil
    society, in order to create consensus and develop a prioritization strategy in relation to
    drainage and flood control inthe EDWC and surrounding coastal regions.

The proposed Conservancy Adaptation Project (CAP) is being developed in close collaboration
with key donor partners. Over the past year, the Department for International Development
(DfID)of the UnitedKingdom, the Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency (CIDA) and the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) have participated in discussions with the Guyanese
government concerning the need to remediate and adapt the country's water conservancy systems
to meet the increased flood hazard brought about, supposedly, by climate change. Inresponse to
the 2005 floods, DfIDdonated roughly US$2 million to the Government of Guyana to implement
recommendations made by the 2005 World Bank's Needs Assessment.

The CAP project cost is estimated at US$ 5 million, which is to be totally borne by the GEF.
Also, the IDB, with over US$25 million available for the upgrading of Guyana's water
conservancy systems, has expressed interest in working with the World Bank to create a
comprehensive and long term upgrading and management strategy for the country's water
conservancy systems.

It has been established that climate change and climate variability and climate-driven sea level
rise pose a significant threat to the sustainable development of low-lying coastal zones as in
Guyana. Of particular concern are the projected rise in sea levels and the increase in the intensity
and frequency of extreme weather events such as intense and heavy rainfalls and storm surges to
which Guyana is particularly vulnerable. Climate change threatens the stability and integrity of
marine and coastal systems. The coastal zone of Guyana has been recognized as most vulnerable
to the impacts of climate change and sea level rise, and as requiring greater attention by the
international community. The IPCC TAR highlights the vulnerability of countries like Guyana,
on account of its geographic characteristics. Given the severity of the expected climatic shifts and
sea level changes, the low level of its economic development which restricts its ability to cope
with expected changes without great economic stress, and its limited capacity to undertake
appropriate riskreduction or adaptation measures, climate change impacts may severely affect the
sustainable development prospects of Guyana.

Present rates of sea level rise and projected environmental impacts associatedwith global climate
change therefore pose a significant threat to Guyana its economy and people. Recent flooding
events demonstrate the immediate vulnerabilities of Guyana to climate driven events and
weaknesses in the current infrastructure. This project is designed to provide some immediate
infrastructure improvements to cope with the local effects of sea level rise and provide a technical
baseline foTThe continued managememiactaptation of TIE              t o m i n a g e am-mcontrol
network.

Overall, the project appears to be rather ambitious given the level of financing and the level of
economic and knowledge capacity of Guyana. This latter void i s expected to be filled by
contracting out to international consultants. It is claimed that the project would likely involve four
contracts, to be executed by an international engineering firm with expertise in EDWC drainage
systems. The firm is expected to conduct all studies and assessments. They are also expected to
design, contract out, and supervise the ensuing infrastructure adaptation works.




                                                  73

         However, the project has a lot of merit and responds to a number of pressing needs in relation to
         adaptation to greenhouse gas (GHG) climate change for key sectors, namely water resources,
         agriculture and coastal infrastructure in Guyana.

         There is general agreement within the engineering community that the EDWC and its dam are
         fragile and in serious risk of failure if proactive actions are not taken and operations continue as
         they have been historically managed. The floods of 2005 and 2006 brought to light the extreme
         urgency for upgrading protective drainage structures, particularly in the EDWC system, and the
         urgent need for strengthening, the EDWC dam.

         The continued deterioration of the EDWC system will have catastrophic consequences;
         potentially displacing 75 percent of the Guyana's population. This includes the loss of the capital
         city, Georgetown and other urban centers and the loss of the country's principal export products,
         sugarcane and rice. Considering the impacts of climate change, together with the deteriorated
         condition of the system, the scope of actions required to address this challenge i s beyond the
         capacity of the Government of Guyana without outside technical and financial assistance. Hence
         the justification for immediate funding by the GEF and other major donor agencies. Moreover,
         the project appears to fit very well within the context of the goals of the GEF. Current and
         anticipated collaboration with other donor agencies, such as the Department for International
         Development (DfID) of the United Kingdom, the Canadian International Development Agency
         (CIDA), the Japanese Thematic Climate Change Policy and Human Resource Development
         (PHRD) and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) further enhances the appeal of the
         project for GEFfunding.

         The Guyana Conservation Adaptation (CAP) project is estimated to US$ 5 million, which is to be
         totally borne by the GEF. Also, the IDB has ear-marked US$25 million for the upgrading of
         Guyana's water conservancy systems and has expressed interest in collaborating with the World
         Bank to create a comprehensive and long term upgrading and management strategy for Guyana's
         water conservancy systems.

         Furthermore, the government of Guyana together with the Wider Caribbean region, has
         previously had fruitful links with the World BanWGEF in similar projects in the past (CPACC,
         MACC). There is also ample evidence of political will on the part of the Government of Guyana
         to seriously address environmental issues as evidenced by their participation and fulfillment of
         their multiple MEA obligations (UNCCD, CBD, NBSAPs, and UNFCCC).

         The Climate Convention guidance to the GEF on adaptation has in the past supported initial
         studies, vulnerability and adaptation assessments, and capacity building. More recently, the
         United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) requested that the GEF
         support pilot and demonstration projects in the field of adaptation. Under its strategic priority
         ``-. .
           1 1
~~    ~      ma-                            ctr-,                iht:v-                              `de real
         benefits and may be integrated into national policies and sustainable development planning. In
         addition, the GEF supports adaptation activities through the Least Developed Country Fund and
         the Special Climate Change Fund.The GuyaneseCAPEDWC project qualifies in both instances.

         The proposed Conservancy Adaptation Project is to be supported under the Special Climate
         Change Fund, with emphasis being placed on the implementationof physical adaptation measures
         and the planning of future physical interventions based on the results of an analysis of the
         drainage management system. The integration of technology and analytical methods for the
         design of interventions under this project are transportable and this project can serve as a
         demonstration for the development of adaptation interventions that can be implementedin similar


                                                           74

 contexts (e.g. delta regions, coastal zones, river systems) throughout the world. The execution of
 the project will be coordinated with activities being developed within CARICOM's Community
 Climate Change Center (CCCC), currently implemented through the World BanWGEF.

 In accordance with the GEF/SPA guidelines the CAP project proposal which integrates
 adaptation planning and assessment that will hopefully be practically translated into national
 policy and sustainable development planning, as stipulated by the UNFCCC, further strengthens
 the merits of the proposal. Furthermore, in step with the SPA guidelines, the CAP project
 includes: (i)activities within a natural resources management context that generate global
 environmental benefits; and (ii)adaptation measures that provide other major developmental
 benefits. Also, the SPA requires that the majority of benefits translate into protection of global  I


 biodiversity and prevention of land degradation. The SPA guidelines also stipulate that,
 "activities should be country driven, cost- effective and integrated into national sustainable
 development and poverty reduction strategies". The project clearly demonstrates that these
 elements are integrated. Finally, the project meets the guidelines for co-financing which depend
 on the delivery of global environmental benefits, additional costs associated with actions
 necessitated by climate change, and the degree of capacity building. By reducing the risks to
 global commons, the project supports the design and implementation of specific adaptation
 measures that will enhance the resilience of vulnerable, globally-important ecosystems and
 biodiversity, and infrastructure and peoples, as to be found along the coastal zone of Guyana.

 Also, the project, based on the information provided on pages 43-44, appears to be well-
 structured and scientifically and technically sound, and clearly demonstrates that its intent is to
 make efficient and integrated use of the capacity built in past operations in the Caribbean
 (CPACC, MACC, and ACCC) and limited human and financial resources to advance with
 practical steps on the actual implementation of adaptation measures. The project also provides an
 opportunity to seek synergies in support of various multilateral environment agreements and
 promotes and facilitates more effective coordination.

 The CAP project complements the goals of the other previously-funded GEF climate change
 projects (CPACC, MACC) and applies the lessons and information gathered from these previous
 GEF-funded projects by piloting the implementation of adaptation measures in Guyana that has
 already taken mainstreaming decisions that seek to execute specific measures to address the
 impacts of climate change on water resources and coastal zone flooding, biodiversity and land
 degradation, through the detailed design and application of near-term pilot adaptation and follow-
 up long-term measures.The project is also expected to pioneer the establishment of institutional
 and operational frameworks for addressing holistically multiple convention objectives in
 accordance with national priorities, thereby serving as a model for other regions and countries.
 Finally, one of the main goals of the project is to make efficient and integrated use of the limited
 human and financial resources for these technical areas and illustrate how adaptation measures
-+?e&-                            &**I&-                       '  M, isttdvmtagous.
                                                                         &this

 The institutional and implementation arrangements and the monitoring and evaluation plans of
 the project are well detailed and are highly commendable. Other issues include linkages to other
 programs and action plans (DfID, IDB, IAB, and CIDA) and a clear identification of global
 environmental benefits and minimal impacts of the project on the environment locally.
 Furthermore, critical risksand possible controversial aspects of the project are clearly defined and
 discussed. Also, Institutional Strengthening, Capacity Building and Sustainable Development
 Strategies are clearly defined and discussed.




                                                   75

      The Guyana CAP project also appears to closely adhere to established World BanWGEF
      principles, namely independence, impartiality, transparency, disclosure, ethics, partnership,
      competencies and capacities, credibility, and utility.

      Furthermore, the project seems to meet the operational guidelines of Climate Change Adaptation
      projects funded by the GEF, namely interventions that increase resilience to the adverse impacts
      of climate change of vulnerable countries, sectors, and communities. The CAP project also
      clearly demonstrates how adaptation planning and assessment can be practically translated into
      national policy and sustainable development planning. Also the project incorporates activities to
      be funded that are country-driven, cost-effective and integrated into national sustainable
      development and poverty-reduction strategies. The adaptation measures identified in the project
      will also be guided by such preparatory work as the first national communications of Guyana,
      NAPAs, and other relevant country studies.

      The CAP project also respondsto the SPA portfolio of the GEF, inthat it is designed to maximize
      the opportunity for learning and capacity building and will be representative of particularly
      vulnerable regions, sectors, geographic areas, ecosystems, communities.          The project also
      demonstrates that experiences and lessons from the CAP/SPA project would be applicable in a
      wide context and that the experience from the CAP/SPA could be used to develop good practices
      and estimates of the costs of adaptation to better mainstream adaptation into the full range of GEF
      activities.

      Moreover, the CAP pilot project also includes activities within a natural resources management
      context that generate global environmental benefits, and adaptation measures that provide other
      major development benefits such as water resources management and flood control, agriculture,
      biodiversity, health and built infrastructure. The CAP project of Guyana also appears to meet
      existing eligibility criteria for GEF funding, such as country drivenness, ecological and financial
      sustainability, replicability, stakeholder involvement; M&E, etc. The fact the CAP project
      demonstrates the requisite GEF components of incrementally and co-financing (IDB, IAB)
      clearly shows that it consistent with GEF practices and overall portfolio experience i s also an
      advantage.

      Safeguard policies required for GEF-funded projects, which include Environmental Assessments
      and policies designed to prevent unintended adverse effects on third parties and the environment,
      are also integrated in the project proposal. Specific safeguard policies identified in the CAP
      proposal aim to address natural habitats, cultural property, involuntary resettlement, indigenous
      peoples and the safety of dams. Also, the safeguard policies identified in the CAP proposal
      appears to provide a platform for the participation of stakeholders in project design, and to be an
      important instrument for buildingownership among the local population of Guyana.

-~  - T W m a n a CAI? project a                                                                 . .  3 off    ~~-
      business products and instruments, which establish rules for lending instruments, country
      economic and sector work, technical assistance, grants, guarantees and other Bank products.
      Also, the CAP project closely adheres to fiduciary policies of the World Bank, inthat it spells out
      relevant rules governing financial management, procurement, and disbursement and selection of
      consultants. The management of the CAP project also adheres to GEF criteria on such areas as
      project monitoring and evaluation.

      Furthermore, the Guyana CAP project appears to meet World Bank criteria relating to disclosure
      policies in that it demonstrates widespread sharing of information which is essential for
      development and which stimulates public debate, broadens public understanding, and enhances


                                                       76

transparency and accountability. These disclosure policies will hopefully also strengthen public
support for the CAP efforts to improve the lives of people in Guyana, which in turn will facilitate
coordination among the many parties involved in development, and will improve the quality of
the assistanceprojects and programs.

The CAP project also contains a section on project preparation and supervision, but it i s not clear
(Incomplete Appendix ll),    how the InspectionPanel of the World Bank will be able to ensure
compliance with Bank policies. The Bank wishes to have an independent body to which
individuals and communities can turn if they believe that their rights or interests have been or
could be directly harmed by a Bank-financedproject.

Recommendations

1. The project, though very deserving, is highly ambitious, given the tasks identified, the limited
    budget from GEF (US $ 5 million) and the local skills capacity for such an undertaking.
    Longer term more efficient and permanent infrastructure remediations to the EDWC would
    have been the ideal solution, but excessive costs ($ US 200 to 300 million) would militate
    against this. So the approach taken is a piece-meal one, given the costs and the urgency of the
    problem. However, the project proposal can be strengthened by giving a greater priority to
    the pressing infrastructure upgrades that are requiredto reduce the risk of flooding and loss of
    human lives and ecosystems and built infrastructure. Besides, the Component Two of the
    project relating to System Analysis and Hydrologic Baseline, seems highly technical and
    involved and costly (LIDAR measurements, DEM construction, hydrological modeling),
    demanding specialized expertise that may not be available locally and would call for the
    intervention of foreign consultants. If foreign consultants are to be used, as described in the
    project it would be worthwhile, given the complexity of the tasks (1-D and 2-D hydrological
    flow models) to involve local University level personnel (University of Guyana). As a matter
    of fact, it would be preferable to use simple flow models based on historical and GCM
    scenarios data and empirical-statisticalrelationships pertaining to rainfall-runoff relationships
    and flooding. This alternative would greatly simplify the undertaking, reduce the costs and
    allow for greater participation and ownership by the host country, Guyana.

2. The document contains a number of broad and sweeping statements relating to flooding
    problems and the EDWC, without providing sufficient proof or evidence. For instance, based
    on very limited historical data sets (2005 and 2006 for extreme rainfalls), the claim is that
    these extreme events may be due to GHG climate change (pages 9-10), Also, the tone of the
    document assumes that GHG climate change and its impacts are inevitable, which may well
    be the case, but caution must be exercised in such assumptions because of the high
    uncertainty, deriving from the level of GHG forcing, spatial issues and climate models
   -~
    imperfections. Furthermore, the project, supposedly, attempts to undertake hydrological
    modeling o f E D W C X n g historical&fi          climateand seavels. Nomention is made
    of taking futurehcenarios climate and sea level changes which are critical in the design of the
    planned infrastructure works for the future. Besides, Governments are being asked to
    integrate climate change issues into Environmental Impacts Assessments (MACC, CIDA-
    ACCC)

3. The sectors that are targeted as the focus of the study, namely water resources, agriculture,
    drainage and flood protection and coastal infrastructure and peoples are critical for the well-
    being of Guyana. However, the document does not provide adequate information in terms of
    institutions and capacity for undertaking the engineering and impacts studies in these sectors
    and there is a lack of details relating the precise methodologies that are to be used to


                                                 77

          undertake hydrological flow models (Subcomponent 1.2 p 36). Besides details on Component
          2 relating to Drainage and Flood Control Analysis in the EDWC system are very sketchy, and
          there are no identified timelines and one gets the impression that the planning of the project
          would evolve as it progresses.

      4. The document provides details of budget allocations for the 3 activity components, namely
          Intervention Works and Operational Improvements for the EDWC, Drainage and Flood
          Control Analysis and Project Management and Donor Coordination (pp 35-43), for the GEF
          project proposal. However, there is no guarantee of the $ U S 25 million IDB project to
          dovetail Component Two of the GEFproject and this is a concern.

      5. It would appear from the project proposal to the GEF, that a large part of the funding for
          Component Two (Drainage and Flood Control Analysis) will be handled by foreign
          consultants, since the tasks call for highly specialized expertise and equipment in mapping
          and hydrological modeling. This raises the issue of capacity buildingand in-house expertise.
          Besides, once foreign consultants are done with a project follow-up and local ownership
          become issues.

      6. The identification of critical risks and possible controversial aspects (native land claims) are
          to be commended. However, it is stated that there are no controversial aspects related to the
          project. This statement is very strong and must bejustified, especially in view of the fact that
          major native settlements are located within or in the vicinity of the project area. Also, the fact
          that social and environmental impacts of the project are considered is also highly
          commendable (pages 61-63).

      7. There a number of syntax and grammatical errors that needs to be corrected to improve the
          quality of the project proposal. Examples are use of Climactic instead of climatic, use of GoG
          and GOG interchangeably, page 30, paragraph 1, page 43: last line of paragraph 4.

      8. There are a number of abbreviations and acronyms that are mentioned in the project
          document that are not defined (ITCZ, IDA, ECLAC...). It i s recommended that a list of
          Abbreviations and Acronyms be inserted in the project proposal.

      9. The project document has many incomplete sections (In-Country disclosure: p 65, and
          Annexes 11, 12 and 13), which should be addressed in order to ensure a complete and
          comprehensive evaluation of the proposal.

      In spite of the above observations and comments, the Guyana CAPEDWC project fits into the
      criteria of projects eligible for GEF funding for adaptation activities through the Least Developed
      Country Fundand the Special Climate Change Fund.Besides, the project addresses a number of
-    v    s    -              ' '  issrres rehtirrg to dimate change impan and adaptation for water
      resources management, flood and drainage control, coastal zone infrastructure and livelihoods of
      people and the sustainabledevelopment of Guyana.

      Though the project, in its present form needs some improvements, it is well-founded andjustified
      and therefore GEFfunding is highly recommended.

      Bhawan Singh
      Bhawan Singh, PhD (Climatologist).
      STAP Roster Expert: Trinidad and Tobago
      September 25", 2006.


                                                       78

                      Responseto STAP Reviewer Comments

Generally, the comments received were quite positive and constructive. The vulnerabilities of the
Guyanese coastal lowlands are well known and the urgency of the need to address the drainage
system is a source of general agreement.

Overall, the project seeks to provide improvements to infrastructure while setting the stage for
other donors and the Government of Guyana to continue with system improvements using the
data and tools developed under this initial project. Close coordination with the GoG and donor
agencies will assure a coordinated approach and maximum yield from the GEF investment.

The following address the Recommendations section of the comments document::

    1.   Local skills capacity and technical complexity - The Bank has studied the local capacity
        within the GoG and has included as partners with two agencies (the Lands and Surveys
        Commission and the Ministry of Works, River and Sea Defense) which have received
        extensive technical support form previous European Union projects. Additional partners
    '   will be included by project appraisal. Both agencies now involved support modern GIS
        capabilities and both have been trained in data collection, management and analysis as
        well as in precision geodetic surveying techniques to improve their technical capabilities.
        Both entities are considered critical partners to the project and allow the GEF project to
        buildon the results ofEUinstitutional strengthening efforts.

        Rationalefor technical analysis - No adequate topographic baseline currently exists for
        evaluating the coastal drainage of Guyana and until one is developed, internal flood
        control management will remain a matter of guesswork and response to localized
        empirical observation rather than integrated system planning. Additionally, at present it
        is impossible to evaluate the effects of development activities on the system. The tools
        developed under the project will allow for the informed management of future
        development and landuse by managing its impact on flood control and drainage
        management. Understanding the local micro-topography enables the determination of
        water sources and flow regimes that must be captured or otherwise managed to reduce
        flooding and managedrainage efficiencies.

        The use of LIDAR and hydraulic flow modeling is designed to provide the hydraulic
        baseline for the future design of infrastructure works in both the conservancy and coastal
        lowlands of the system. LIDAR was chosen as the most accurate and cost effective
        technology for developing this critical topographic base on a large scale at very high
        resolutions. The acquisition and processing of the data into a digital elevation model
     _IDEM) format is technically complex is to be left to:ompanies       specializing in this area.
        The use of DEMsfor hydraulic analysis and landuse planning is compatible with the GIS
        systems already in place in Guyana. As part of the technical assistance portion of the
        program, Guyanese technicians will work closely with the contractor in the development
        of the LIDAR basedDEMand modeling and shall be trained extensively in their use as a
        modeling and planning tools.

        The modeling to be developed under the project is not in support of general rainfall
        runoff models based on future climate scenarios. The model contemplated under this
        project is a hydraulic flow simulation allowing for the identification of topographic
        chokepoints in the drainage system and the development of engineering designs to



                                                 79

           improve internal hydraulic flows. Once developed, the system can be designed and
           tested, in the virtual world, against any future hydrologic regime which may be modeled
           using the techniques referred to in the comments.

        2. The flood events of 2005 and 2006 are not attributed to global climate change. However,
           the inability to remove water, as was historically the case, has been exacerbated by the
           change in discharge parameters of the tidal cycle. Rainfall is a relatively minor factor in
           the process when one considers the estimated 1.8 foot rise in sea level experienced since
           1951. Developingthis project will allow the GoG to evaluate future scenariosconcerning
           rainfall as they are developed inthe researchcommunity.

           As the far as EDWC is concerned, the analysis to be completed there is structural
           integrity and internal system hydraulics as opposed to hydrologic. In other words, the
           project seeks to improve discharge efficiencies by improving flow characteristics within
           the system. The data developed on the EDWC provide a basis for the evaluation of the
           system's response to changes in regional hydrology by providing key data allowing for
           the calculation of EDWC useful head and other performance parameters.

        3. Institutional relationships and specific timelines as well as organic institutional capacity
           will be further developed during the appraisal mission. It i s the intent of the project that
           the major technical components will be carried out by international firms under contract
           to the GoG with the active participation of the GoG within a technical assistance
           framework.

        4. Donor participation and broad consultations to leverage of the GEF program will be
           further developed during the project appraisal phase and throughout project
           implementation. While at this time there is no guarantee concerning the IDB project, the
           technical engineering baseline provided will provide a critical tool for any donor
           participating in the water sector. Donor meetings have and will continue to be a priority
           for the development of the project and donors will be actively involved during the entire
           process. Additionally, from the opposite perspective, the GEF project is leveraging the
           EU contribution to the sector by continuing the development of the same agencies
           previously involved and making extensive use of the data developed under their program.

        5. Capacity building i s a major component of the project and the Bank i s sensitive to the
           need to institutionalize the results. As discussedunder 1, GoG participation is a matter of
           the TA component of the project but also, integratingthe broad government consultations
           and donor community participation serves to emphasize the value of the results as a
           planning tool allowing them to reinforce support for the institutions trained during the
           project. This allows not only future support form GoG resources but helps assure
-    -- ___continued suppoKZ%e          prodEW%nndTnsfifuti6narcapa~iesdevexped thorough the
           Donor network as well.

        6. Text in the pad has been amended to reflect that no native lands will be affected by
           project activities as they lie outside the domain of the drainage systems beingconsidered
           under this project.

        7. and 8. Addressed inthe editing of the PAD.

        9. Sections to be finished resulting from meetings and interchanges to be developed during
           the next appraisal mission.


                                                     80

                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33416

                                             60W                                                                           58W                                                                    56W




                                                                                     ATLANTIC                                        OCEAN
                                                         Morawhanna



8N                                      Amakura     Mabaruma

                                                                                                                                                                                                     8N

       R. B. DE                            B A R I M A - WA I N I
      VENEZUELA                                    Port Kaituma

  To                                                                                                                        POMEROON-SUPENAAM
Ciudad                           Matthews                   Waini
Guayana                              Ridge
                                                                                    Charity
                                                                                                       Anna Regina                    ESSEQUIBO ISLANDS-
                                                                                                                                      WEST DEMERARA

                                                                                                                                                DEMERARA-MAHAICA

                                                                                                  Parika                 GEORGETOWN
                                                                     Cuyuni             Vreed en Hoop                          Paradise                        MAHAICA-BERBICE


                                                              Arimu Mine
                               C U Y U N I - M A Z A R U N I                     Bartica                                                    Fort Wellington

                                                       Peters Mine                                                                Rosignol                New Amsterdam


6N                           Merume                                                                                                         Mara
                                        Mts.                            Ma aruni erRockstone
                                                                            z                                         Linden                                                                         6N
                                                                                                                                             Corriverton

                                 Imbaimadai                  Issano                              o
                                                                                                          re
                                                                                                           ara




                            Mt. Roraima
                             P a k a r a i m a                                           Essequib       Dem            Ituni
                                                                                                                                Takama                              SURINAME
                            (2772 m)          Mountains                                            U P P E R
                                                                  Mahdia              D E M E R A R A -
                                                                                                  B E R B I C E                    Courantlyne
                                                              P O TA R O -
                                                Orinduik      S I PA R U N I
                                                                                                  Kurupukari




                          BRAZIL                                                                                                                                         GUYANA
                                                                    Surama
4N
                                                                                         Apoteri
                                                              Good Hope

                                                                                                              Essequibo e
                                                                                                                     Berbic

                                                                           U P P E R
                                                       Lethem           TA K U T U -
                                                       Kanuku              U P P E R                                                      N
                                                                     E S S E Q U I B O                                                     ew
                                                                  M ts .                                                                           Courantlyne

                                                                Dadanawa

                    To
                 Caracara                        Raad
                                                                                                                                             Oronoquekamp

                                                                                                                                          E A S T
       GUYANA                                                       Isherton                                                         B E R B I C E -
                                                                                                                                 C O R E N T Y N E
         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                2N                                                                                                                                                  2N
         REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                       Isherton
         NATIONAL CAPITAL

         RIVERS                                                 Kamoa                                                                           0             20 40  60      80     100 Kilometers

         MAIN ROADS                                                       Mountains
                                                                                                                                                0               20     40          60 Miles
         RAILROADS

         REGION BOUNDARIES                                         BRAZIL                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                            58W  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                     56W

                                                                                                                                                                                            NOVEMBER 2004

