Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5736-BD  Type: (PR)                    Report No. P-5736-BD
WESTIN, R./ X80426 / D9 095/ SAlCI
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TIHE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 109.3 MILLION
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
APRIL 3, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withOut World Bank authorization.



CURRENC' EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US Dollar serving as the intervention
currency. The official exchange rate as of January 1, 1992 was:
US$ 1 = Tk 38.80
Tk 1 = US$ 0.0258
In this report, US$ is sometimes abbreviated to $.
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
ADP      -  Annual Development Program
BOI      -   Board of Investment
BPDB     -   Bangladesh Power Development Board
CAG      -   Comptroller and Auditor General
CORBEC   -   Committee on Reforms in Budgeting and Expenditure Control
CONTASA  -   Convertible Taka Special Account
ERD      -  Economic Relations Division
ESAF     -   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ECNEC    -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FFW      -   Food For Work
FFYP     -   Fourth Five-Year Plan
FIAS     -   Foreign Investment Advisory Service
IMED     -   Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division
IPC      -   Import Program Credit
ISAC-2   -   Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
KfW      -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NBR      -   National Board of Revenue
NGO      -   Non-Governmental Organization
O&M      -   Operations and Maintenance
ODA      -   Overseas Development Administration
PFP      -   Policy Framework Paper
PRMAC    -   Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit
RAL-II   -   Second Board Report on Adjustment Lending
TYRIP    -   Three-Year Rolling Investment Program
TA       -   Technical Assistance
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
VAT      -   Value-Added Tax
VGD      -  Vulnerable Group Development
WID      -  Women in Development
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC RESORCE NANAGDIENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS                       Page Number
CREDIT SUMMARY
PART I.  COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ....... .. 1
A. Background ............................................................. 1
B. Macroeconomic Framework .....         .. . ............................. 3
C. Public Resource Management .......................................... . 5
D. Stimulating the Productive Sectors ..................................            7
E. Addr3ssing Social Development Concerns ...............................          10
F. The Bank Group's Assistance to Bangladesh ................. *..... 11
G. External Financing Requirements .......... ..... ..          . .    ... . ...... 14
H. Sunt ary Assessment and Performance Indicators ........            ............ 15
PART II.  THE CREDIT ....................................... .................. 16
A. Background to the Credit ..................................................... . 16
B. Description of the Major Policy Actions   .           ....................... 18
(i)  Macroeconomic Framework ........................... .......... . 19
(ii) Tax Reform ................   ...... *...   ....             ..... ................. 9
(iii)Expenditure Prioritization ................................... 22
(iv) Aid Utilization ....................................................... 28
(v)  Institutional Strengthening .............................. .... 31
Summary of Actions for the Second and Third Tranches              .. 32
C. Structure of the Credit ................ .......                                36
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement ............................... .                .......39
PART III.  RECOMMENDATION ......... ........ .**o .          .......... 41
LIST OF SCHEDULES
Schedule A: Major Economic Indicators .           ..................... ... ..... 42
Schedule B: Timetable of Key Processing Events .......................... 45
Schedule C: Matrix of Policy Actions              ...................              46
Schedule D: The Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh ......... 54
Schedule E: Letter of Development Policy          .     ....................... 56
Map IBRD 20726R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performaice
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriz n



- i -
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUStMENT CREDI!
Credit Sumnry
Borrower    X     People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount      t     SDR 109.3 million (US$ 150 million equivalent)
Terms       I     Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Description X     The proposed credit would support the implementation of a
program of fiscal reforms designed to increase public
investment and savings, including tax reform, prioritization
of the public expenditure program, improvements in aid
utilization procedures, and strengthening of institutions
involved in fiscal management. The objectives of the credit
are closely linked to the macroeconomic program described in
the Policy Framework Paper for 1991192 - 1993194, and the
monitoring of the reform program would be coordinated with
the DWF's ESAP program.
Disbursemen.s9%   The proposed credit would finance approximately 1 percent of
Bangladesh's gross import requirements for the three-year
period covered by the reform program, 1991/92 to 1993194.
It would be available in three equal tranches linked to
actions in three successive government budgets, thereby
reflecting the need to introduce fiscal reforms over a
medium-term horizon. The Federal Republic of Genrmny would
provide DM 30 million in parallel financing to support the
proposed credit., and the United Kingdom Overseas Development
Administration and the United Nations Development Program
would provide technical assistance in support of tax
administration and institutional development. The closing
date for the credit would be June 30, 1994.
Benefits    s    The proposed credit draws on a major program of economic and
sector work, including three grey cover economic reports
(Bangladesh: An Agenda for Tax Reform, Report No. 7196-BD,
December 15, 1989; Bangladesh: Public Expenditure Review,
Report No. 7545-BD, March 13, 1989; and Bangladesh: Poverty
and Public Expenditures, Report No. 7946-BD, January 16,
1990), as well as two recent country economic memoranda with
a specific focus on public resource management (Bangladesh:
Managing the Adiustment Process - An Appraisal, Report No.
8344-BD, March 16, 1990; and Bangladesht Managing Public
Resources for Higher Growth, Report No. 9379-BD, April 19,
1991). Approval of the credit would provide a tangible
demonstration to the donor coamunity that issues that have



- Ii -
dominated the country economic dialogue over the past few
years are being addressed by the Government in a sound and
responsible fashion.
Risks       s    As the credit would provide support for a major part of the
macroeconomic program of the Government, the principal risks
regarding the achievement of the objectives of the credit
should be judged on a country basis. Bangladesh has a
record of reasonably sound financial management, and the
recent mid-term review of the ESAP program indicates that
the macroeconomic program is basically on track. Many of
the most important structural reforms to be supported by the
credit have already been introduced in the 1991/92 budget,
and the credit would provide a framework for monitoring the
implementation of the reform program over the next two
fiscal years. The risks inherent in an operation as broad
as the proposed credit are therefore fully justified on the
basis of the prior actions of the Government.
Malp     IBID 20726R



REPORT AND           TION OF TU  PSIE
OF IDA TO THE ECUTI   DICTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE PEOPLE' S REPLIC OF IAN       SU
FOR A PUBLIC RESOURCE )IANAGDIENT ADJUSTHMENT CRbDIT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for
SDR 109.3 million, the equivalent of US$ 150 million, on standard IDA terms
with a maturity of 40 years to finance a Public Resource Management Adjustment
Credit.
2.    A Country Economic Memorandum entitled 'Bangladesh: Selected Issues in
External Competitiveness and Economic Efficiency," (Report No. 10265-BD) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 16, 1992.
PART I. COUNRRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Background
3.    With a per capita GNP of around US$190, Bangladesh is one of the poorest
countries in the world. Efforts to reduce its widespread poverty have been
hampered by several physical and structural constraints. With an estimated
population of 107 million in an area about the size of Greece, Bangladesh has
a population density of 741 persons per square kilometer, ten times that of
Greece and three times that of India. This limits the ability of the
agriculture sector to contribute to raising incomes and absorb the rapidly
growing labor force. Although the land is fertile, frequent floods and
cyclones cause severe damage to infrastructure and make agricultural output
subject to high variability. Other than natural gas, Bangladesh has virtually
no mineral resources and limited physical infrastructure. Its labor force
lacks the education, health and nutrition neeeed to make a rapid transition to
faster industrial and export-led growth. Its weak public administration,
inefficient public enterprises and frail financial system have limited the
country's capacity to mobilize resources efficiently, implement development
projects, and deliver public services effectively.
4.    Despite these constraints, Bangladesh made generally good progress
during the early to mid-1980s9. Sustained stabilization policies supported
by the International Monetary 1'und (IMF) and IDA helped to reduce the external
and fiscal deficits from 10-12 percent of GDP in the early-1980s to about 7
percent of GDP by FY86, while inflation was brought down to around 10 percent. v
Real GDP increased by approximately 5 percent p.a. between FY81-86, due to
increases in foodgrain production, construction and services. Improved
I A table of major economic indicators is attached as Schedule A.
t Bangladesh maintains a fiscal year beginning on July 1; the symbol FY86
therefore refers to the fiscal year from July 1, 1985 to June 30, 1986.



2-
exchange rate management helped to increase non-traditional exports by roughly
20 percent p.a., although from a very limited base. Policies were introduced
to stimulate domestic production by providing incentive prices to farmers,
simplifying private investment sanctioning procedures, and denationalizing
public enterprises. Development of domestic comercial energy supplies,
especially natural gas, increased rapidly, enabling relatively high growth in
the power and fertilizer sectors and significant Import substitution for
petroleum products.
5.    Growth fell sharply beginning in FY87, however, due to a combination of
natural disasters (including major floods in FY88 and FY89), a deterioration
in the quality of macroeconomic management, and the cumulative impact of
falling investment levels over the past decade. To a large extent, the
decline in investment was due to inappropriate fiscal policies, as public
investment fell from 9.4 percent of GDP in PY81 to 6.1 percent in FY91, while
private investment fell from 6.5 percent of GDP in FY81 to 5.6 percent in
FY91. At the current level of gross investment, estimated at 11.7 percent of
GDP in FY91, it is likely that Bangladesh is approaching the margin of its
capital replacement requirements, let alone contributing to a net increase in
productive assets. The Government set targets in the annual Policy Framework
Papers (PFP) beginning in FY87 to reverse this situation by increasing
domestic revenues and restraining current expenditures, but performance in
achieving the targets was generally unsatisfactory, in large part because the
Government was unwilling to make politically difficult choices needed to
increase revenues and restrain the growth of current expenditures. As a
result, the Government resorted to large cuts in local funding for the Annual
Development Program (ADP) in order to meet its fiscal targets, which had a
multiplier effect on public investment because of the resulting inability to
utilize available commitments of foreign aid. Following a period of near-
financial instability during FY90, IDA delivered a highly critical assessment
of the Government's performance at the annual Aid Group meeting in April 1990,
which resulted, inter alia, in a reduction in donor pledges to $1.8 billion as
compared to $2.2 billion in the previous year. As a result, the Government
agreed to review its performance on the basis of an Action Program for Policy
Reforms during a special Hid-Term Review meeting in Dhaka in November 1990. A
macroeconomic policy framework was prepared with the assistance of the IMF and
IDA, backed-up by a three-year ESAF program, and IDA assisted the Government
in establishing short-term targets for structural reforms in the areas covered
by the Action Program. At the Hid-Term Review meeting, it was determined that
financial stability had been largely restored and a promising start had been
made in many aspects of the structural reform program (such as financial
sector reforms), but performance in establishing a sound basis fo: medium-term
fiscal management needed to be strengthened. This theme was repeated in IDA's
assessment of performance at the May 1991 Aid Group meeting, which recognized
that the Government had made significant progress in the intervening period in
public revenue and expenditure management policies.



B. Macroeconomic Frcework
6.    Following approval of the ESAF program by the IMP in August 1990,
financial management has been basically sound, despite a variety of inter.Aal
and external shocks over the past year. The Gulf crisis resulted in the
return of almost 70,000 workers, as well as higher oil prices and a loss of
exports to Iraq and Kuwait. The Government took prompt actions to manage the
situation, including an increase in domestic petroleum prices, restraints on
current expenditures, and a reduction of imports, as well as mobilizing
additional assistance from donors and the 1MF. In December 1990, escalating
political unrest forced the resignation of the President, and democratic
elections in February led to the restoration of a parliamentary form of
government, a process that was completed in October 1991. On April 29 1991, a
massive cyclone struck the southeastern coast of Bangladesh, killing an
officially est!inated 139,000 people and severely damaging the second largest
city, Chittagong. Due to additional cyclone-related relief expenditures in
the final two months of the fiscal year as well as some reduction in revenues
attributable to the cyclone, the Government was not able to fully achieve its
fiscal targets for FY91, which otherwise would have been on track. Economic
growth fell to 3.3 percent for FY91 and continued at a generally depressed
pace throughout the first half of FY92, due in part to slow implementation of
the Annual Development Program because of uncertainties related to the long
period of political transition and a slow start-up of cyclone rehabilitation
activities. As a result of lower import growth (exports have remained
generally on target) and additional inflows of concessional assistance for
cyclone relief, foreign exchange reserves increased to approximately $1.3
billion at the end of December 1991 (equivalent to four months coverage of the
reduced level of imports), a situation that is expected to moderate as
economic activity picks up and cyclone reconstruction accelerates with the end
of the monsoon season. Moderate-to-heavy flooding occurred in northwestern
Bangladesh in August-September 1991, which destroyed approximately 500,000
tons of grain, although overall foodgrain production for FY92 is now expected
to reach record levels (in excess of 20 million tons) due to continuing strong
growth in production in the rest of the country. Finally, military unrest
broke out near Bangladesh's southern border in January 1992, which resulted in
a large influx of refugees into a region of the country still struggling to
recover from the recent cyclone. Thus, the new Government has been subjected
to an extraordinary series of shocks during its first year, in addition to
having to maintain a very tight macroeconomic program.
7.    The macroeconomic program outlined in the second-year ESA" program seeks
to restore a moderate rate of economic growth during the current year while
maintaining the momentum of the structural adjustment program. With regard to
the fiscal framework laid out in the PFP, the Government has specified the
following objectives for FY92:
(a)   Increase revenue mobilization by 0.5 percent of GDP, in line with
the overall ESAP target of increasing total revenue collections
from 9.2 percent of GDP in FY90 to at least 10.7 percent of GDP in
PY93;



- 4 -
(b)   Restrain the growth of current expenditures to less than the
growth of nominal GDP; and
(c) Increase public investment in real terms and prioritise the public
investment program on the basis of a rolling three-year program
that is consistent with the macroeconomic framework.
In addition, the Government has reaffirmed its commltment to a broad range of
policy measures affecting agriculture, industry, the financial sector, social
sectors and poverty alleviation. This program, which was outlined at the Aid
Group meeting In May 1991, received strcng endorsement by the donors as
indicated by the increase in pledges to $2.3 billion for FY92.
8.    One of the most important reforms in the FY92 budget was the
introduction of a value-added tax (VAT), which is the centerpiece of the tax
reform program reconmended by IDA and the IHF. This action generated
substantial public opposition, and while the Government maintained its
conmmitment to the VAT, it introduced exemptions which compromised some of tLe
broad-based nature of the tas. The Government committed itself during the PFP
discussions to tight restraints on public sector wage increases; however,
political pressures for implementation of the recommendations of a recent
National Pay Commission subsequently became insurmountable. In August, the
Government announced a two-year program for adoption of the pay awards. As a
result, the PFP was delayed by IDA and the IMF until assurances were received
that the Government would introduce offsetting revenue measures and
expenditure cuts to fully cover the additional cost of the pay increases, and
the PFP and the associated ESAF program were approved by the Committee of the
Whole for IDA and by the DMh Board in late September 1991. The Government
subsequently came under pressure from labor unions to extend the pay iacreases
to employees of public enterprises, and a Wage Commission has been established
to review the wage structure for public enterprises and consider an increase
in the minimum wage that would apply to employees in private sector
enterprises as well. In spite of these pressures, the mid-term review of the
ESAP program in early February 1992 determined that the Government is largely
on track in achieving its financial targets for FY92 (with the possible
exception of the public investment program, where implementation in the first
half of the year has been well behind schedule); and ample leeway is available
within the current targets to accelerate growth by speeding-up implementation
of the public investment program.
9.    As regards the broader macroec-nomic framework in the PEP, the
performance of the agricultural sector has been very good during the past
several years, due in large part to policies which significantly expanded the
role of the private sector in the distribution of agricultural inputs. In
contrast, the industrial sector performed poorly throughout the 1980s in terms
of production, investment and job creation, and the Government has placed high
priority on achieving rapid industrial growth through liberalization of the
policy environment and promotion of the private sector, as well as reducing
the drain on the economy due to poorly performing public enterprises. Except
for a brief period during 1989, the Government has maintained generally sound
management of external trade flows, and the current account balance has



- 5 -
remained in the range of 6-7 percent of GDP, almost all of which has been
financed by concessional aid inflows. The Government follows a flexible
exchange rate policy that is generally appropriate for maintaining external
financial stability, although a more aggressive exchange rate policy in
combination with structural reforms (e.g., trade liberalization) may be
desirable in the future in order to maintain external competitiveness. The
Government's external borrowing policies have been realistic, with a projected
debt-service ratio of 18 percent of export earnings in FY92. Monetary
policies have been supportive of a decline in the rate of inflation to 8.9
percent in PY91 and 5.5 percent during the first halt of FY92 (due in large
part to good performance in foodgrain production). In this situation, recent
Board papers on adjustment lending (e.g., RAL-Il W) recognize that fiscal
policy should be the primary instrument for addressing low levels of savings
and investment.
C. Public Resource Management
10.  As mentioned above, the stagnation of public investment over the past
decade can be attributed in large part to inappropriate fiscal policies. The
major factors that contributed to this situation were:
(i) Stagnation of Domestic Resource Mobilization. Revenue mobilization
has remained virtually unchanged as a percentage of GDP, accounting for
9.4 percent of GDP in FY81 and 9.3 percent in FY90. The tax structure
is heavily dependent on taxation of trade flows, with consequent
problems of low revenue elasticity and high implicit costs in terms of
economic distortions. Tax administration is weak, and there is a high
degree of tax evasion, due in part to a wide degree of administrative
discretion in tax enforcement.
(ii) Rapid Growth in Current Expenditures. Current expenditures
increased from 5.6 percent of GDP in FY81 to 9.0 percent in PY91. Major
contributing factors include increases in wage and salary payments, a
deterioration in the financial position of Bangladesh Railways,
increased subventions for teachers' salaries in private secondary
schools, and excessive staffing levels in local gc.ernment
administration. While subsidies declined over much of the FY81-89
period, there was a sharp increase in subsidies during PY90, rising to
14 percent of total current expenditures. Expenditures for essential
operations and maintenance and the social sectors have been generally
under-funded.  These figures do not fully capture the implicit fiscal
cost of large and increasing losses by public sector enterprises (such
as jute and power) that have been covered by access to loans from public
a Adjustment Lending Policies for Sustainable Growth", World Bank Country
Economic Department, September 1990.



- 6 -
sector financial institutions, growing arrears to suppliers, and non-
payment of debt-service obligat.,ono.
(iii) Weak Prioritization of the Public Investment Program. The
Government adjuated to financial instability in the early 19809 through
sharp cuts in the public investment program. Following this exercise,
relatively little was done to maintain the investment program within a
realistic resource envelope, despite the emergence of serious
implementation problems due in part to constraints on the availability
of local counterpart funds. This problem was aggravated by weak
prioritization, with approximately one-half of local resources being
allocated to locally-financed projects and block grants, often for very
low priority purposes. Donors compensated for growing shortages in
local funding by increasing their share of project financing, including
funding a portion of recurrent costs, and by providing balance-of-
payments support. Despite this, the increase in donor financ3'ng since
FY84 was fully offset by a reduction in the Government's own funding
contribution to the investment program, with the result that public
investment remained static in real terms throughout most of the period.
(iv) Cumbersome administrative procedures. Donor disbursements have
been further hampered by cumbersome administrative procedures, leading
to a build-up in the outstanding pipeline of project aid commitments to
$5.1 billion at the beginning of FY92. Implementation problems related
to delays in project approval, technical assistance, procurement of
goods and services, land acquisition, and project staffing, have
contributed to a high frequency of time and cost overruns, thereby
significantly reducing the productivity of public investment. Obsolete
administrative procedures for planning, budgeting and accounting have
made it difficult for central government agencies concerned with
budgetary management to monitor and control the pattern of public
expenditures.
11.   IDA has made a major effort over the past several years to focus
attention on needed reforms in public resource management. This has included
three grey cover ESW reports -, as well as an emphasis on public resource
management issues in the last two country economic memorandaY These
reports have demonstrated that improvements in public resource management are
essential for achieving higher economic growth, as well as to improve the
delivery of poverty alleviation programs such as primary education, primary
health and family planning. As Chairman of the Bangladesh Aid Group, IDA took
-V Bangladesh : An Agenda for Tax Reform, Report No. 7196-BD, December 15,
1989; Bangladesh s Public Expenditure Review, Report No. 7545-BD, March 13,
1989; and Bangladesh s Poverty and Public Expenditures, Report No. 7946-BD,
January 16, 1990.
v Bangladesh : Managing the Adjustment Process - An Appraisal, Report No.
8344-BD, March 16, 1990; and Bangladesh : Managing Public Resources for Higher
Growth, Report No. 9379-BD, April 19, 1991.



a strong stand on the need to establish clear investment priorities -nd
improve aid utilization, an approach that nas been backed fully by other
bilateral and multilateral donor agencies. IDA has taken a leading role at
the sectoral and institutional level to help prioritize the public Investment
program and to identify needed improvements in aid utilization procedures.
During the past year, the Government has taken a number of important steps to
introduce reforms in public resource management recommended by IDA, including
the introduction of the value-added tax in the PY92 budget, preparation of a
three-year prioritized public investment program, and various improvements in
aid utilization procedures. These actions demonstrate substantial up-front
commitment by the Government to the reform program, and the Public Resource
Management Adjustment Credit would provide a logical continuation of IDA's
dialogue with the Government in this critical area of economic management.
D. Stimulatint the Productive Sectors
12.   Expanding the Role of the Private Sector.  Higher economic growth rat*Ts
will only be possible if there is an increase in investment led by a more
vibrant private sector. The Government has taken a number of measures to
improve the economic, financial and regulatory climate for the private sector.
Perhaps the most notable success has resulted from the removal of restrictions
on the participation of the private sector 4n the distribution of agricultural
inputs, which has increased the availability of minor irrigation equipment and
fertilizer and lowered costa to the farmer through more efficient distribution
systems and a greater range of technological choices. The gradual removal of
import restrictions over the past several years and liberalized access to
foreign exchange has also provided the private sector greater scope to compete
effectively in the industrial sector. At the same time, the Government
recognizes that further actions are required to improve the incentive
structure for private investment and rationalize the regulatory framework for
industry. A program of prtvatization has been announced, and this needs to be
carried through in close _.anjunction with continuing efforts at public
enterprise reform.
13. Agricultural Policies. The Government's objective is to raise the
agricultural growth rate to 3.5-4.0 percent annually over the medium term. To
achieve this, the Government intends to rely on greater private investment in
minor irrigation and increased use of improved seeds and fertilizers. The
Government removed all restrictions on the importation, distribution and
siting of low horsepower irrigation equipment and power tillers in FY88 and
FY89, and private distributors were allowed direct access to bulk purchases of
chemical fertilizers starting in FY89. These measures contributed greatly to
the record FY90 harvest and to continuing strong agricultural growth during
FY92. The Government intends to support these reforms through increased
investment in minor irrigation equipment by the private sector, expanded
drainage and flood control, intensified command area development, and improved
research and extension services. Better transportation infrastructure is also
important to improve farmers' access to major markets.



14.   As Bangladesh approaches self-sufficiency in rice production, the
Government needs to reexamine its food policies. IDA recently prepared a Food
Policy Report that recommended a variety of measures to improve the efficiency
of foodgrain operations through further liberalization of input markets,
expanded involvement of the private sector in foodgrain marketing, and
allowing market forces to have a greater influence on output/input prices. In
the long run, policies that bring domestic rice prices into line with the
long-run trend in world prices should produce a more efficient rice sector,
resulting in lower prices to the consumers.
15.   Industrial and Trade Policies.  Economic diversification, relying
primarily on private sector-led industrial development, is essential to create
non-farm employment for the rapidly growing labor force. Given the limited
scale of the domestic market due to widespread poverty, industrial growth
should be based on export-oriented activities as well as efficient import
substitution. Such a strategy would require, at a minimum, a stable
macroeconomic environment, improved regulatory framework, rationalization of
the trade regime, and an improvement in the operation of public industrial
enterprises.
16.   Measures to achieve these policy objectives were announced in the
Industrial Policy for FY92. To facilitate private inves'ment, the sanctioning
limits of financial 'nstitutions have been increased to US$2.5 million, and
within this limit, equal treatment has been provided to domestic and foreign
investment. Guidelines on foreign direct investment have also been updated.
The Government is discussing a further program of trade liberalization with
IDA that would involve the elimination of all bans and restrictions on imports
ezcept for those required for reasons of religion, health, security, and
perhaps a small number of items which the Government considers to be
sensitive. In addition, tariffs for a wide variety of items (other than
luxury goods) would be lowered to a maximum of 75 percent over the next two
years, with further reductions to 50 percent where revenue considerations
permit.
17.   Because public enterprises play a significant role in the country's
industrial development, their ganerally poor performance and excess capacity
have stifled industrial growth and drained budgetary resources. The most
critical problems involve firms in the jute sector. With appropriate
policies, jute could continue to play an important role in industrial exports,
despite weak external demand. A Jute Development Project is under discussion
with TDA that would involve the phasing out of excess production capacity and
labor in the existing mills, modernization and rehabilitation investments in
viable public and private sector mills, financial, organizational and
managerial restructuring, and eventual privatization of public sector mills.
18. Financial Sector Reform. Rapid growth of the financial system in the
mid-1980s without due regard to enforcement of loan recoveries undermined the
viability of the financial sector. In addition, the administered interest
rate structure virtually eliminated price competition and made priority sector
lending and mobilization of term deposits commercially unattractive.
Recognizing these deficiencies, the Government is undertaking a program of



. 9 -
financial sector reforms vith IDA support which seeks to enhance efficiency
through greater reliance on market competition, reduction in direct Government
intervention, interest rate liberalization, strengthening of the nationalized
commercial banks, and an improved legal framework for debt recovery. The
Government has introduced a more market-oriented approach to interest rate
determination, discontinued subsidized refinancing facilities through the
Bangladesh Bank, imposed new regulations with respect to accounting policies
for provisioning of bad debt and suspension of interest, and instituted
financial loan courts to improve debt recovery. Continuing difficulties in
the financial performance of the nationalized commercial banks, however, could
affect the sustainability of the reform program unless they are promptly
resolved.
19.   The Role of Infrastructure.  Well-planned investments in infrastructure
generally achieve high economic rates of return in Bangladesh despite
implementation delays, and there have been significant achievements in several
sectors (for example, Bangladesh's dependence on imported petroleum declined
from 68 percent of export earnings in FY81 to 19 percent in FY90 due to the
development of domestic natural g's supplies). The major factor constraining
greater investment in infrastructure is the weak financial and operating
performance of most sector agencies, although there are some important
exceptions (for example, the Rural Electrification Board is generally
considered to be an efficient and well-managed organization). The most
serious problems involve the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), which
initially achieved improvements as part of the FY89 Energy Sector Adjustment
Credit supported by IDA but subsequently experienced a very serious
deterioration in its financial performance. As a result, all major donors,
including IDA, have suspended new lending for power development during FY91.
and IDA has suspended disbursements for an ongoing power operation until the
Government makes substantial progress in restructuring BPDB and reducing
system losses and accounts receivable. The Government has recently taken
steps to resolve this situation, including establishment of Dhaka Electricity
Supply Authority as an independent entity on October 1, 1991, and it is hoped
that sustained progress in reducing system losses and accounts receivable will
allow IDA to resume disbursements and preparation of new investments in the
near future. The natural gas sector has also experienced serious problems
recently, including contract delays and lack of progress in resolving pricing
issues. While IDA is not active in the railway sector, Bangladesh Railways is
considered to be a major problem due to high losses and poor operating
performance. In the road sector, IDA was not active for an extended period
during the 1980s due to lack of agreement with the Government on the priority
of road maintenance. This problem has now been resolved and IDA has resumed
lending for roads, and a major Transport Sector Review was prepared by IDA in
FY91 to provide a strategic framework for future investments in the transport
sector. The report also helped provide a framework within which IDA has
tentatively agreed to support the proposed Jamuna multipurpose bridge,
provided that the project gains support from other potential cofinanciers.
IDA has been active in supporting investment in other infrastructure sectors
as well, such as ports, inland water transport, urban water supply and urban
development; in almost all cases, however, the binding constraint on further
investment is the limited absorptive capacity of the sector institutions.



- 10 -
R. Addressing Social Develoument Concerns
20. Population. Rapid population growth constitutes one of the most serious
obstacles to poverty alleviation efforts. Since independence in 1971,
Bangladesh's population has increased by 35-40 million people. This increase
has created a large expansion in the number of rural landless households and
has increased the number of urban poor through rapid rural-urban migration.
Population growth has over-stretched the social services and worsened the
impact of natural disasters through encroachment on marginal lands. A
reduction in fuelvood availability is causing rural households to use
agricultural residues and animal dung as energy sources, contributing to soil
depletion and reduced fodder availability for draft animals.
21.   The Government has had an active family planning program since 1975
which has been successful in increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate from
8 percent in 1975 to 31 percent in 1989 and reducing the total fertility rate
from above 7 in the mid-1970s to below 5 in 1989. An IDA-led consortium of
donors is providing support for the sector through the Fourth Population and
Health Project approved in FY91. Efforts are being made to strengthen the
linkages of family planning to maternal and child health care activities, as
well as to the health seztor in general. It is increasingly recognized that
programs aimed solely at the supply of family planning services will not be
sufficient to achieve the desired reduction in fertility. Greater efforts are
needed to promote the general status of women in society, as well as to extend
family planning services to the population in greatest need, for example, by
including population education in the primary and secondary school curriculum.
22. Human Resource Development. Human resource development as measured in
terms of literacy, health and nutrition, is extremely low in Bangladesh. The
adult literacy rate (about 29 percent) is one of the lowest in the world, and
primary and secondary school enrollment rates (about 58 percent and 27 percent
respectively) are significantly lower than in comparable countries. With the
support of other donors, IDA is providing assistance for the expansion of
primary education and improvements in educational quality through the General
Education project approved in FY90. Programs are also under preparation to
expand educational access to disadvantaged groups, for example, through non-
formal literacy programs administered by NGOs.
23. Women in Development. The majority of women in Bangladesh are caught
between two different worlds - one determined by culture and tradition that
confines their activities inside family homesteads, sad the other shaped by
increasing landlessness and poverty that forces them into wage employment for
economic survival. Ill-prepared for the outside world, women have limited
economic opportunities. Bangladesh would benefit significantly in terms of
increased productivity, enhanced family welfare, and a reduced population
growth rate by focussing on the development potential of its women. IDA has
contributed to drawing attention to issues affecting women through its recent
Strategy Paper on Women in Development completed in FY90, which is being
followed-up by integrating WID issues into the General Education Project and



- 11 -
the Fourth Population and Health Project, as well as preparation of the
proposed Female Secondary School Assistance Project.
24. a vironmental Issues. The floods of 1987 and 1988 and the cyclone of
1991 have heightened interest in improved environmental management. IDA
recently completed an Environment Strategy Review, which will be discussed
along with other environmental documents at a forthcoming meeting in Dhaka.
Particular attention is being paid to forestry issues (because of the
depletion of Bangladesh's forests and sources of biomass), industrial and
agricultural pollution control (because of the threat to water supplies and
fish), and biodiversity (because Bangladesh is home to a number of endangered
species). Flood management and cyclone protection are particularly important
environmental concerns, and IDA has taken a lead role in coordinating interna-
tional action on flood management. IDA's Action Plan for Flood Control was
endorsed at a conference of donors in London in December 1989, and is now
being implemented by the Government with the support of 15 donors, including
IDA. IDA has played a major role following natural disasters in coordinating
the donor response for rehabilitation and reconstruction activities, and IDA
is supporting programs to rehabilitate coastal embankments and expand the
cyclone shelter system.
25.   Efforts to Reduce Poverty.  The elimination of pervasive poverty remains
one of the principal objectives of public policy, and the mixed outcome of the
Government's efforts in reducing poverty remains a major concern. The most
recent data indicate that close to 50 percent of the population does not earn
enough income to afford a basic diet considered to be the minimum necessary by
international standards. The Government recognizes that improved
macroeconomic policy and economic growth are not sufficient to improve the
prospects of the poor. It has therefore undertaken to expand employment
opportunities through programs such as Food for Work (FFW) and to target
income transfer programs to the lowest income groups through the Vulnerable
Group Development (VGD) program; these two programs reached approximately five
million poor beneficiaries in recent years. The Government has established
the independent Palli Karma Shahayak Foundation for poverty alleviation to
supplement these efforts. The objective of the foundation is to support
income generating programs by NGOs and public sector agencies involved in
generating employment for the very poor through the provision of credit.
F. The Bank Group's Assistance to Bangladesh
26. Lending Level and Composition. As of December 31, 1991, cumulative Bank
Group commitments to Bangladesh totalled US$ 5395.3 million equivalent, net of
cancellations. The distribution of lending as of December 31, 1991 is given
in Table 1 below. In PY90. US$540 million was committed for five operations,
and in FY91, $459.7 million was committed for 6 operations. IDA gross
disbursements to Bangladesh totalled US$331 million during FY91, while debt-
service payments of US$50 million were received (US$17 million for
amortization and US$33 in interest payments), resulting in a net transfer to
Bangladesh of US$281 million.



- 12 -
Mfb 1: 0_8h   d  1ak fa 8_0b%11072110
Ournualv LO Paondin
Sector            Amount (U886 milan)
Agutue rIgAo wnd Rural Develpmet               11s.7                20
P"r and Ene                                    10O3&0               18
bxks*y                                         804.4                14
Educ6ton                                       400.8                 7
Tansportio and T_bccmmvA*adcm                  419.5                 7
6w_y Pehablltaton                              188.6                 3
WM b_uluobue                                   141.7                 2
Ppuation and HedhU                             905.0                 5
Teclhrdca MSleMs                                8O5                  1
Ad,urn and ir Non.PrWCt Csd                   1t257.3               22
Toal                 __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _                         t009
27.  For the PY92-95 period, the IDA lending program is planned to continue
at a level of around US$450-500 million a year. Of this amount, approximately
15-20 percent represents planned adjustment lending, which would materialize
only if the pace of the policy reform process is maintained. Excluding
adjustment lending, roughly 22 percent of the remaining amount would go for
agriculture, irrigation and rural development, 30 percent for power and
energy, 23 percent for transportation, 15 percent for education and technical
assistance, 5 percent for urban infrastructure, 3 percent for population and
health, and 2 percent for industry and finance. L
28.   IDA's lending program is closely linked to the development strategy
outlined in the preceding sections. The major adiustment operations during
the FY92-95 period would include the Public Resource Management Adjustment
Credit and the proposed Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit, as well as
proposed operations for restructuring the jute manufacturing industry and
v   The relatively low percentage for population and health reflects the
approval of the Fourth Population and Health Project in FY91 (total project
cost of $600 million, of which IDA will contribute $180 million and bilateral
donors $356 million), which is expected to provide the bulk of resources for
this sector over the next five years.



- 13 -
improving the foodgrain management system, which would be brought into the
lending program if the Government is prepared to commit itself to major
reforms. As regards the lending program for agriculture and water resources,
we are planning several lending operations in support of the Flood Action
Plan, including two projects to improve cyclone protection (through roads,
coastal embankments, early warning systems, etc) and construct cyclone
shelters in high risk areas. We are also planning operations in support of
sustainable forestry management and agricultural research, although further
operations in support of agricultural credit have been temporarily shelved
until we reach a clearer agreement with the Government on priorities in this
area. Concerning investment in power and energy development, the recent
reduction in lending as a result of donor dissatisfaction with the financial
and operating performance of the sector agencies has led to growing imbalances
in the investment program that may result in increasingly severe problems of
service delivery during the next few years. If the performance of the sector
agencies improves substantially, we foresee a need to increase investment over
the next few years in order to restore a balanced program for the development
of the energy sector. In the transportation sector, the choice of new
projects will be guided by IDA's recent Transport Sector Review. The largest
project in the portfolio is the Jamuna multipurpose bridge, which would
provide the first direct transportation link between the eastern and western
sections of Bangladesh, as well as providing supporting infrastructure for
power transmission and a possible gas pipeline in the future. Other potential
projects in the sector include a continuation of the ongoing road
rehabilitation and maintenance program, improvements in rural access roads by
constructing structures (bridges, culverts, etc) that are not provided by the
Food for Work program, and possible projects for port development and road
ferry improvements. In the education sector, we anticipate a follow-on
operation to the General Education project in FY95, as well as innovative
operations for expanding female school enrollment at the secondary level and
encouraging non-formal education programs for hard-to-reach children.
Operations in urban infrastructure are expected to concentrate on water supply
and sanitation in major urban areas (Dhaka and Chittagong), provided that
agreement is reached on actions to improve the financial and operating
performance of the sector agencies. In the area of population and health, the
major share of funding for the sector will be provided through the ongoing
Fourth Population and Health project, and possible new operations during the
next few years will concentrate on programs to stimulate demand for family
planning services and expand nutrition programs targeted at high risk mothers
and children. We currently anticipate relatively limited direct lending to
the industrial sector. However, we are devoting a major share of ESW
resources to examining issues involving the incentive structure for industrial
development, promotion of private sector activities, and restructuring of
public enterprises, and we expect that additional operations may materialize
as a result of this effort.
29. Project implementation. The efficient utilization of IDA resources is
seriously constrained by the limited absorption capacity of most sector
agencies. Between FY82 to FY89, the disbursement ratio for project aid as a
percentage of outstanding commitments remained in the range of 12-15 percent.
Disbursements have improved during the past two years to nearly 20 percent of



- 14 -
outstanding commitments due to more intensive supervision and restructuring of
problem projects; however, the quality of the IDA portfolio remains
disappointing (32 percent of IDA projects are currently rated as experiencing
major implementation problems), and further actions will be needed to sustain
the recent improvements in disbursement performance. Many of the generic
problems affecting the portfolio would be addressed as part of the Public
Resource Management Adjustment Credit. Additional actions are being taken at
the sector level to address implementation problems affecting specific
agencies, such as the Bangladesh Water Resources Board and the Bangladesh
Power Development Board. IDA has made a major effort to improve aid
coordination activities, so that uncoordinated investments by donors do not
overload the implementation capacity of sector agencies. IDA has also
indicated to the Government that project implementation performance will be a
major factor in determining the level of aid recommendations to the donors at
the annual Aid Group meetings in Paris.
30. Role of IMP, IPC and MIGA. IDA and the IMF have worked closely in
Bangladesh, especially in connection with the preparation of Policy Framework
Papers in support of SAF operations during FY87-89 and an ESAF operation for
FY9l-93. IDA has coordinated with the IMP in pxeparing adjustment operations
in the financial and industrial sectors.
31. The IFC has increased promotional activity considerably in the last year
and is currently pursuing investment opportunities in general manufacturing,
services and capital markets. During FY91, IFC invested in a textile spinning
mill. In order to maintain market presence, IFC has been willing to accept
investments smaller than it typically considers. In the capital markets area,
IFC is focusing its efforts on non-banking financial institutions such as
housing finance, bill discounting and asset finance companies. IFC is also
willing to play an active role in the Government's privatization initiative
and has expressed this interest to the Government on several occasions.
32. During FY91, MIGA provided an investment guarantee for an export-
oriented fertilizer factory in Bangladesh. Following up on work started in
1987 by IFC, FIAS has been providing technical assistance to improve the
structure and functioning of the Government's Board of Investment (BOI). In
FY91, a 2-year program to strengthen the BOI was agreed upon. Work on this
program has recently started and has resulted in the formulation of proposa.s
for reorganization and restructuring of BOI. FIAS is also working with IDA on
a deregulation and incentives study in connection with the proposed Second
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit.
G. External Financing Requirements
33. Bangladesh can achieve a growth rate in excess of 5 percent over the
medium term if it follows the policy framework described above. To support
such growth and finance the necessary investment, Bangladesh will have to
continue to rely on external assistance. Total external aid commitments to
Bangladesh are currently about US$2 billion a year, of which IDA's share is
in the range of 20-25 percent. Even with improvements in public savings,



- 15 -
Bangladesh will continue to face a savings/investment gap of around 6.5
percent of GDP and a budget deficit of about the same amount, which is
mirrored in the balance of payments. Given that exports are only two-fifths
of imports and jute prices and volumes are not expected to increase, the
current account deficit is expected to remain at around 6.5 percent of GDP
despite the rapid growth of non-traditional exports. Allowing for maintenance
of foreign exchange reserves and amortization payments, aid flows (excluding
short-term financing and the IMF) will need to be maintained at present levels
over the medium term.
34.   The bulk of the required aid flows should come from disbursements from
Bangladesh's aid pipeline, which stood close to US$5.6 billion at the
beginning of FY92. The balance of the resource requirements would need to
come from new commitments averaging US$1.9 - 2.1 billion p.a. Of this amount,
about one-third would need to come from food and commodity aid commitments,
reflecting Bangladesh's continued reliance on such aid for fiscal and balance-
of-payments support.
35.   Bangladesh's outstanding medium and long-term external debt is expected
to increase from US$11.4 billion at the end of FY91 to US$13.0 billion by end-
FY93. Because the bulk of the debt is contracted at highly concessionary
terms, the debt-service ratio to GDP is low at 1.8 percent, while the debt-
service ratio to exports, excluding IMF repurchases, is manageable at 15.2
percent. These ratios are projected to decline to 1.5 percent and 12 percent
respectively by FY95, provided that GDP and export growth are maintained.
R.  Summary Assessment and Performance Indicators
36.   The Government and IDA are largely in agreement on the key policy issues
facing the Bangladesh ecor,omy, and differences of viewpoint typically involve
the timing and sequencing of specific policy actions. The highest priority
policy indicators for the medium term are summarized in the PFP policy matrix,
which was endorsed by the Committee of the Whole on September 26, 1991.
Macroeconomic performance is monitored closely by the IMF and IDA in the
context of the PFP/ESAF program, and various aspects of the macroeconomic
program are monitored by IDA in greater detail through specific adjustment
operations (such as fiscal policy in the context of the proposed Public
Resource Management Adjustment Credit and financial sector reforms in the
context of the ongoing Financial Sector Adjustment Credit). IDA's country
economic memorandum provides a mechanism for reviewing progress on a broad
range of policy reforms with the donor community at the annual Paris Aid Group
meeting, while policy matters affecting particular sectors are generally
monitored in the context of specific investment operations. IDA has played a
major role in coordinating the efforts of donors in various sectors, including
two IDA-led consortia that are providing support for the expansion of primary
health and family planning and primary education. The World Bank Resident
Mission forms the focal point for coordination of donor programs at the local
level, and IDA maintains extensive contact and collaboration at the working
level with staff of the Asian Development Bank. Thus, donor coordination on



- 16 -
policy issues is broad-based and generally effective in the context of
Bangladesh.
37.   The Government has been reasonably successful in maintaining financial
stability over the past several years. However, economic growth has been
generally disappointing, and serious structural problems need to be resolved
in order to achieve higher growth in the future. The most important
indicators that IDA will use in assessing the Government's performance in
addressing these issues are the followings
* Continued sound macroeconomic management, including agreed fiscal and
monetary targets in the context of the PFPIESAF program, and flexible
exchange rate management.
* Substantial improvements in public resource management (including
actions to be supported by the attached credit) focusing on tax reform,
prioritization of the public investment program, restraint of current
expenditures, and streamlining of aid utilization procedures.
* Improved incentives for efficient industrial investment through trade
lib. alization, restructuring of public enterprises (including
privatization) especially in the jute sector, continued progress in
financial sector reforms, and improvements in the regulatory environment
for industry.
* Vigorous action to reduce losses and improve performance in key
public enterprises, especially Bangladesh Power Development Board,
Bangladesh Railways, Petrobangla, and Dhaka and Chittagong Water and
Sanitation Authorities.
* Continued liberalization of agricultural inputs, expanded role for
the private sector in foodgrain management, and restructuring of
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation.
* Implementation of the Flood Action Plan, including cyclone protection
and shelter programs, and improvement of project implementation and
maintenance by the Bangladesh Water Development Board.
* Strong support for human resource development in the context of the
General Education project and the Fourth Population and Health project.
* Continued support for women in development, including expansion of
educational programs for women at the secondary level.
PART TI s THE CREDIT
A. Background to the Credit
38.   Obiectives of the Credit.  The Public Resource Management Adjustment
(PRMAC) would support the Government's program as outlined in the recent
Policy Framework Paper to achieve a substantial and sustainable increase in



- 17 -
public savings and investment over the medium term and to ensure that the
available resources are utilized efficiently in support of high priority
programs. In order to achieve this objective, the PRMAC would monitor policy
reforms in the following aressa
(i) Fiscal TarRets: Establish realistic and achievable multi-year
targets for increases in public savings and investment within a
sound macroeconomic framework;
(ii) Structural Reforms: Support comprehensive structural reform
of the tax system and prioritization of the public expenditure
program to improve the efficiency and buoyancy of revenue
mobilization and ensure that the available resources are used for
the highest priority activities; and
(iii) Institutional Development: Assist the institutions with
primary responsibility for fiscal management and policy to
strengthen their internal operating procedures, reduce
administrative impediments to efficient aid utilization, and
improve coordination with sectoral agencies responsible for
executing the public expenditure program.
39.   Coordination with the IMP.  The PRMAC has been prepared in close
cooperation with the IMF, and there is full agreement on priorities for fiscal
reform (for example, the introduction of the VAT was a structural benchmark
for the ESAF program as well as a prior action for appraisal of the PRMAC, and
the IMF provided a technical adviser to the Government for two years to assist
in the preparation of the VAT). The macroeconomic framework to be used by the
PRMAC will be prepared jointly with the IMF in the context of the annual
Policy Framework Papers (PFP), and the monitoring of the PRMAC will be
coordinated with the DMF during various ESAF tranche reviews, PFP discussions,
etc. While the reform program supported by the PRMAC therefore forms an
important part of the ongoing ESAF program, the PRMAC will set more specific
performance targets in each of the main areas of structural reform included in
the credit (e.g., tax administration, prioritization of the public investment
program, etc.).
40. Justification for Balance of Payments Support. As recognized in recent
reports to the Executive Directors on adjustment lending, substantial
increases in savings and investment will be an essential part of a sustainable
adjustment strategy for the large majority of countries. For a low-income
country such as Bangladesh, improvements in fiscal policies are expected to
play a leading role in stimulating investor confidence and expanding
opportunities for productive investments by the private sector in industry,
agriculture and services. In the initial stage of the fiscal adjustment
process, however, there is greater scope for expanding public investment more
rapidly than public savings, both because of the critical need for additional
public investment in social and economic infrastructure and because sustained
increases in revenues are difficult to achieve in the short term and need to
be backed up by longer-term improvements in tax administration. The major
share of increased public investment should be (and generally is) financed



- 18 -
directly through increased project aid, but there are limits on the extent to
which this approach can be productive, both because the availability of local
counterpart funds is often a critical constraint on the investment program and
because project aid does not address the general import requirements of the
economy stemming from a multiplier effect as a result of the increase in
investment. Thus, the PRMAC can play an important role in assisting with the
transition to a high-growth, high-savings economy by providing balance-of-
payments support for the additional import requirements resulting from the
reform program and by generating local counterpart funds to assist with the
implementation of the public investment program.
41.   Since the measures to be supported by the PRMAC therefore form an
integral part of the Government's overall reform program, the balance-of-
payments justification for the credit should be viewed in terms of the broader
context of the structural adjustment program being pursued by the Government.
Medium-term economic projections prepared in the context of the PFP indicate
that even with a vigorous structural adjustment program, the current account
deficit is expected to remain in the range of 5.5 - 6.5 percent of GDP for the
foreseeable future in order to support a higher level of investment needed to
maintain rapid economic growth. In order for this economic scenario to be
sustainable, the Government will need to undertake policies aimed at achieving
higher export growth and efficient import substitution, such as the program of
trade liberalization currently being discussed with IDA in the context of the
Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit. Within this context, the PRMAC
would be the first adjustment credit supported by IDA that combines all the
elements of a comprehensive fiscal reform program needed to achieve a
sustained increase in public savings and investment in the medium term, and it
therefore fully satisfies the criteria provided in recent Board reports to
justify the use of adjustment lending.
B. Description of the Maior Policy Actions
42.   The policy reforms to be supported under the PRMAC can be classified
into the following five categories:
(i)   Macroeconomic Framework;
(ii) Tax Reform;
(iii) Expenditure Prioritization;
(iv) Aid Utilization Procedures; and
(v)   Institutional Strengthening.
The PRM&C has been designed as a three-tranche adjustment operation timed to
coincide with the introduction of fiscal reforms in three successive annual
budgets. The appraisal of the PRMAC (November-December 1991) took place
following the introduction of major elements of the reform program in the FY92
budget, especially the introduction of the value-added tax and the preparation
of a prioritized three-year rolling investment program (TYRIP). The second
tranche of the PRMAC would support reforms associated with the FY93 budget
(which is also the third year of the ESAF program) and would focus primarily



- 19 -
on direct tax reforms, improvements in tax administration, further
prioritization of the public expenditure program, and monitoring the
implementation of aid utilization improvements. The third and final tranche
of the PRMAC would support reforms associated with the FY94 budget (the nature
of IMF involvement beyond the current ESAP program has not yet been
determined, although it is expected that the IMF will continue to monitor the
macroeconomic situation), and it would focus on expanding the base for direct
and indirect taxes, further improvements in tax administration, expenditure
prioritization, aid utilization, and extension of the institutional
development components of the PRMAC. By adopting the framework of several
tranches tied to reforms in three successive budgets, the PRMAC recognizes the
need to implement fiscal reforms over a medium-term horizon and to match the
pace of disbursements under the credit with the timeframe needed to ensure
that the reforms are fully institutionalized. Moreover, by linking the second
and third tranches to preparation of the PFP and the presentation of the
annual budget, the PRMAC seeks to avoid potential problems resulting from
conflicting signals and/or multiple negotiations with separate agencies that
could interfere with the efforts of the Government to prepare and implement a
coherent set of fiscal policies.
(i) Macroeconomic Framework
43. A sound macroeconomic framework is essential in order to establish
realistic targets for improvements in public savings and investment.
Agreement on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework will continue to take
place within the PFPIESAF process, and the following fiscal targets (which are
consistent with the PFP) will be monitored as part of both the ESAF and PRMAC
programs:
Mi)  annual increase in revenues by 0.5 percent of GDP;
(ii) rate of growth cf current expenditures not to exceed the rate of
growth of nominal GDP; and
(iii) realistic increase in the Annual Development Program (ADP)
consistent with the above targets.
Release of the second and third tranches will be based on a satisfactory
review of performance in achieving the targets for the previous fiscal year
and the preparation of a realistic budget for the coming fiscal year that
fully meets these targets.
(ii) Tax Reform
44. Due to ch'ronic problems of low revenue elasticity and economic
distortions resulting in part from the tax structure, IDA mounted a major
technical assistance mission to Bangladesh in 1986 to develop a medium-to-long
term program of tax reform. The recommendations of the mission are summarized
in the 1989 report on tax reform referred to earlier. The report provides a
framework for tax reform that is consistent with the recent review paper,
Lessons of Tax Reform', that was discussed by the Board of Executive
Directors on April 16, 1991; in fact, the Bangladesh study provided one of the
major inputs for the preparation of the Board paper. The PRMAC would



- 20 .
represent the first adjustment credit to provide support for a broad-based
program of tax reform drawing on the recommendations of the Board paper.
45.   Indirect Taxation.  As recommended in the recent Board paper on tax
reform, the cornerstone of the reform effort is the introduction of a value.
added tax, which became effective on July 1, 1991. The VAT has been levied at
a uniform rate of 15 percent at the manufacturer-cum-import level. Together
with trade-neutral supplementary excise duties, this system largely replaces
the earlier structure of differentiated sales taxes on imports and excise
taxes on domestic goods. Despite the intense initial public resistance to the
VAT following its introduction, the VAT has performed well, and its revenue
yield during the first six months of FY92 exceeded initial expectations by a
substantial margin. Over the longer run, the VAT is expected to improve
revenue elasticity by broadening the base of indirect taxation, as well as
reducing economic distortions through elimination of the cascading of taxation
through succeeding stages of production and moderating the anti-export bias
implicit in the previous structure of excises and sales taxes. The
preparation of the VAT was assisted by the posting of an IMF technical adviser
to the National Board of Revenue (NBR) for the past two years. Follow-up
assistance to NBR is being provided through a UNDP technical assistance grant,
including the posting of a resident VAT adviser to assist with impl6mentation
problems.
46.   The PRMAC would provide support for the introduction of the VAT in the
FY92 budget and would monitor its implementation and extension over the next
two years. As the first stage in this process, IDA and NBR have agreed on an
action plan for improvements in VAT administration during FY92, including
specific measures to expand the number of registered traders and verify the
accuracy of the VAT register, increase the rate of submission of VAT returns
to at least 80 percent of registered traders (as compared to 60 percent at
present), improve internal documentation of VAT administration, expand
management training programs, and improve computer cell integration between
NBR and the field level collectorates. A detailed action plan providing
similar targets for FY93 would be prepared for implementation as part of the
second tranche. Actions have also been identified to expand the base of the
VAT during the next two years. Measures to be included in the FY93 budget
include a limitation on the exemption for small and cottage industries so that
it applies only to enterprises with annual turnover below the threshold for
the turnover tax, inclusion of contractual processing services in the VAT, and
inclusion of items currently subject to excise (including at least natural gas
and cigarettes) within the VAT. NBR is currently reviewing the administrative
feasibility of expanding the VAT register during FY93 to include, inter alia,
all commercial importers and exporters, and wholesalers serving manufacturers,
so that they become subject to the VAT in the FY94 budget. A study will be
carried-out with IDA assistance to examine appropriate taxation regimes for
yarn and textiles (these items were exempted from the VAT during the recent
budget discussions), and taxation will be introduced for yarn and textiles in
the FY94 budget based on the results of this study. Assurances have been
received that there will be no further substantive exemptions to the VAT in
the FY93 and FY94 budgets, and all remaining items currently subject to excise
tax will be included in the VAT in the FY94 budget.



- 21 -
47.   In addition to the introduction of the VAT (which would be supported
under the PRMAC), the Government is considering rationalization of the
remaining structure of import taxation by lowering the maximum tariff rate,
eliminating concessions based on the type of importer or user, replacing high
duty rates with trade-neutral supplementary excise duties, and introducing
pre-shipment inspection of imports to improve revenue collections. These
changes form part of a program of trade policy reforms (including the
elimination of most quantitative restrictions on imports and improvements in
investment sanctioning and export promotion procedures) that would be
supported by IDA's proposed Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (FY93).
48.   Direct Taxation.  'While the VAT is expected to provide the foundation of
the revenue system, reforms in direct taxation are needed to improve revenue
elasticity and provide a greater degree of progressivity in the tax structure.
As demonstrated in IDA's report on tax reform, the current structure of direct
taxes is characterized by low revenue elasticity and a high degree of inequity
between taxpayers because of excessively generous allowances and deductions
which allow the majority of individuals and corporations to avoid paying
taxes, as well as problems of weak administration that contribute to a high
degree of tax evasion. As a result, income taxation accounted for only 13
percent of total tax reven.es in FY90, of which almost two-thirds resulted
from the company income tax. Some reforms have recently been introduced as a
result of IDA's recommendations, including the introduction of withholding
taxes on interest in FY91 and dividends in FY92, inclusion of entertainment
allowances in the tax base in FY92, withdrawal of tax exemptions for capital
gains on assets subject to the investment allowance in FY91, reduction of the
ceiling for the investment allowance to Tk 100,000 in FY92, and a limitation
of the time period for granting company tax holidays to 1995 in the FY92
budget. The actions to be taken in the FY93 budget include replacement of the
current filing threshold for the personal income tax with an exemption limit
and replacement of the personal investment allowance with an investment tax
credit, accompanied by additional measures (if needed) to ensure that the
overall package of direct tax reforms is at least revenue neutral. In
addition, a study will be initiated to prepare an alternative package of tax
incentives for companies to replace tax holidays after 1995, with the results
of the study to be implemented beginning with the FY94 budget.
49.   The changes described above would do a great deal to improve equity and
efficiency by replacing the current direct tax structure, which is
characterized by a narrow base and overly-generous allowances and deductions,
with a broader-based system that is less susceptible to tax avoidance and
evasion. At the same time, improvements in tax administration are considered
essential in order to benefit from the structural changes. The Government
recently approved the creation of more than 1000 new posts in the direct tax
wing to be spread over a period of three years (filled by a combination of
staff rotation and new hires), which will permit the establishment of almost
100 new tax offices. At the same time, it is important for staff to be used
more effectively by redeploying existing and addition*. manpower into priority
areas. With this objective in mind, the coverage of the self-assessment
scheme for the personal income tax will be expanded in the FY93 budget to



- 22 -
cover the majority of assessees in Categories II and III (assessees with
income of Tk 80,000 or less), so that tax enforcement efforts can concentrate
on Category I assessees (income greater than Tk 80,000) who currently account
for approximately 80 percent of revenues generated by the personal income tax,
as well as selective screening of taxpayers filing returns under the self-
assessment program. Targets have been established for increasing the number
of registered taxpayers by 10 percent during FY92 and 12 percent during FY93,
with the proportion of Category I assessees increasing to 4 percent of the
total in FY92 and 5 percent in FY93, as well as a reduction in outstanding tax
arrears (including disputed payments) by Tk 1 billion in each of the next two
years.
(iii) Expenditure Prioritization
50. Public Investment Program. Despite growing evidence during the latter
part of the 1980s that the public investment program was substantially
overcommitted (as demonstrated by declining project aid disbursement rates as
well as IDA's public expenditure review mentioned above), the Goverment was
unable to address the problem in any consistent fashion, in large part because
of political constraints. As a result, the donors began to question the
ability of the Government to take on major new commitments and implement them
efficiently, including several high visibility activities such as the Jamuna
Bridge, the Flood Action Plan, and major programs for the expansion of primary
education and primary health and family planning. Following the April 1990
Aid Group meeting which brought these issues into sharp focus, the Government
undertook efforts to prioritize the public investment program in order to
address the donor's concerns. A high-level committee was established to
review all ongoing projects in order to determine the scope for possible cost
savings, which resulted in a reduction in locally-financed block grants in the
FY91 budget by 60 percent, the immediate closure of almost 100 ongoing
projects (mc.r of them relatively small), and the identification of potential
longer-term cost savings in the remaining projects amounting to 20 percent of
projected costs over the coming five-year period. Drawing on this exercise,
the Planning Commission began the preparation of a three-year rolling
investment program (TYRIP) to integrate the funding requirements for ongoing
and proposed projects into a consistent macroeconomic framework. This process
was highly contentious, as the Planning Commission had just issued (October
1990) the final version of the Fourth Five-Year Plan (FFYP) that was based on
a projected resource envelope roughly 30 percent larger in real terms than the
more realistic resource envelope envisioned in the TYRIP. The preparation of
the TYRIP therefore required the sectoral ministries to reconcile the highly
ambitious investment objectives outlined in the FPYP with a more realistic
assessment of resource availability. The TYRIP has undergone a number of
revisions over the past year, a process in which IDA participated in an
informal advisory capacity. It was circulated to donors at the end of October
1991, and the Planning Commission has compiled the comments of donors as an
input for reviewing the TYRIP during preparation of the FY93 budget and Annual
Development Program (ADP).
51.   The prioritization exercise has resulted in the following changes in the
public investment program to date:



- 23 -
(a)   Sectoral Allocations.  One of the primary objectives of the TYRIP
is to ensure adequate funding for high priority projects,
especially in the social sectors. Sufficient funding has been
provided in the FY92 ADP to fully support priority activities
being undertaken as part of the General Education Project and the
Fourth Population and Health Project. In addition, there has been
a major increase in the allocation for investment in natural gas
(from 4.6 percent in the FY91 ADP to 8.3 percent in the FY92 ADP)
in order to address chronic implementation problems due to local
funding constraints. At the same time, the allocation for the
industrial sector has been reduced from 10.5 percent in the FY91
ADP to 5.2 percent in FY92, due in part to a decision to defer
lower priority projects.
(b)   Reductions in Locally-Financed Projects.  The allocation for
locally-financed projects and block grants in the FY92 ADP has
been reduced to 27 percent of available local resources, as
compared to 50 percent in the FY90 ADP. This was achieved by
cutting the number of locally-financed projects from 385 in FY90
to 218 in FY92 and by sharp reductions in block grants for local
development projects. This effort will be continued in subsequent
budgets to ensure that the total allocation for locally-financed
projects and block grants does not exceed 25 percent of the
available local resources. As a result of the pruning exercise as
well as more careful budgeting for higher priority projects, the
availability of local counterpart funds, which previously was
considered to be a major implementation constraint for a large
number of donor-assisted projects, is no longer a significant
problem in the FY92 ADP, although other implementation problems
have resulted in relatively low disbursement rates so far this
year.
(c)   Pruning of Lower-Priority Projects.  A number of lower-priority
projects have been dropped or scaled-back to token allocations in
the TYRIP, partially in response to queries raised by IDA and
other donors regarding project prioritization. For example, the
TYRIP has identified 18 out of 26 locally-financed projects in the
health sector to be closed in FY93, for an estimated annual
savings of Tk 0.3 billion. Moreover, a number of projects,
including many in the agricultural sector, have been identified as
having lower priority in the TYRIP, and these projects are
expected to absorb the burden of funding reductions if the amount
of resources is less than originally expected.
52.   While the TYRIP is generally regarded as providing a useful framework
for prioritizing the investment program, it has not yet been fully integrated
into the budget cycle. Moreover, the TYRIP needs to be backed-up by
institutional changes within the Planning Commission to establish a stronger
role for macro-level management of the public investment program. Until
recently, the Planning Commission focused on the screening of individual
investment projects as well as preparation of the five-year development plans.



- 24 -
Vhile the five-year development plans have been useful in articulating long-
term objectives (such as the recent focus on human resource development and
poverty alleviation in the Fourth Five-Year Plan), the macroeconomic framework
for the development plans has tended to be overly ambitious, and they have not
provided a realistic guide to the allocation of scarce development resources.
The TYRIP is intended to overcome this problem by providing a realistic
framework for programming investment projects that is linked to the
macroeconomic projections in the PFP. At the same time, the guidelines for
project preparation and approval have been modified to delegate responsibility
to the sectoral ministries for the preparation of investment projects, while
the Planning Commission has taken on greater advisory responsibilities as
secretariat to ECNEC (Executive Committee of the National Economic Council),
especially as regards the overall composition of the investment program and
the consistency of investment projects with sectoral strategies. The various
actions to be supported by the PRMAC are intended to continue strengthening
the role and capacity of the Planning Commission in providing these essential
inputs into the investment programming process.
53.   The following actions will be monitored as part of the PRMAC:
(a) Preparation of the TYRIP and ADP. As part of the annual budget
process, the Planning Commission will update the TYRIP, with the ADP
serving as the first year of the TYRIP, so that it meets the following
criteria:
{i) the resource envelope should be consistent with the
macroeconomic framework in the PFP;
(ii) adequate allocations should be provided for high-priority
projects, including sufficient local funds; and
(iii) the amount of funding provided for locally-financed
projects and block grants (excluding block grants for land
acquisition and payment of custom duties and value-added tax on
project-related imports) should not exceed 25 percent of the local
funds available for the ADP in any given year.
(b) Strengthening the Project Pipeline. Up to now, the TYRIP has been
approached primarily as a financial programming exercise. In some
sectors such as power and natural gas, donors have worked closely with
the Government to develop medium-term priority investment programs that
have been useful in identifying imbalances in the infestment program,
such as the need to increase investment in power transmission and
distribution facilities as compared to generation. In other sectors,
however, project selection is still approached in an ad hoc manner. The
Government intends to use the TYRIP to strengthen the pipeline of
priority projects in selected sectors. In order to initiate this
process, the Planning Commission has identified three sub-sectors,
(fisheries, natural gas and health) for which investment strategy review
papers will be prepared by the relevant agencies working in cooperation
with the appropriate sector divisions of the Planning Commission, to be



- 25 -
completed prior to the second tranche of the PRMAC. These papers will
be discussed with the relevant donors and reviewed by the Planning
Commission, for submission and approval by ECNEC as the basis for
strengthening the project pipeline over the medium term. Following this
exercise, at least three additional sub-sectors (including more
difficult sectors such as crop agriculture) will be identified for the
preparation of investment strategy review papers prior to the third
tranche of the PKMAC.
(c) Restructuring of Lower Priority Projects. The project pruning
exercise carried out in FY91 and the various revisions of the TYRIP have
resulted in a large number of ongoing and proposed projects being
dropped from the investment program because of lower priority. While
the overall quality of the public investment program is generally
adequate, there are still a fair number of projects in the TYRIP where
significant differences of opinion exist as to their expected benefits,
cost-effectiveness, and/or priority in terms of overall selectoral
objectives. As part of the PRMAC, the Planning Commission has
identified ten relatively large ongoing projects that will be reviewed
with the objective of restructuring the projects (including the options
of continuation on a revised basis or possible termination) to improve
their economic and/or financial viability and their implementation
performance. The list of ten projects includes several that have
generated substantial controversy in recent years, including the Teesta
Barrage, Seed Development Project, Barind Integrated Area Development
Project, Establishment of an Aluminum Rod Mill, and High Voltage Cable
and Conductor Manufacturing Plant. A timetable and action plan for
reviewing each project is being prepared, with satisfactory
implementation of the restructuring plans to be initiated prior to the
third tranche of the PRMAC.
(d) Introduction of Project Pruning on a Continuous Basis. While the
project pruning exercise in FY91 was an effective means for deleting a
large number of lower priority projects from the investment program and
releasing funds for use by other projects, past experience indicates
that the benefits of this exercise will be relatively short-lived unless
continuing attention is given to pruning lower priority and/or poorly
performing projects on a regular basis. As part of the PRMAC, the
Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED) will prepare a
list of potential projects for pruning and/or restructuring, including
those that require increased funding allocations, which will be
considered by the Programming Cormittee of the Planning Commission in
making the allocations for projects in the ADP. The first such report
was completed in February 1992 and recommended reduced allocations for
162 projects (of which 46 would be dropped entirely from the FY93 ADP),
for a total savings in local counterpart funds of Tk 2.5 billion.
(Notes revisions in project aid requirements were not quantified as the
resources are not fungible.) In addition, 82 projects were identified
as requiring increased local funding allocations amounting to Tk 4.0
billion in order to support prompt implementation, with the net increase



- 26 -
in local funding to be provided from unallocated block grants in the
ADP.
(e) Improved Monitoring of High Priority Proijects. The IMED maintains
an extensive monitoring system for ongoing in-estment projects, which
has been used primarily to estimate the actual level of ADP expenditures
and prepare project completion reports.  As part of the PIMAC, IHED has
agreed to introduce a more action-oriented monitoring system on a trial
basis that will provide fast-response information to decision makers on
implementation problems for a selected subset of high priority projects.
The Planning Commission and IMED have identified an initial group of
forty priority projects for intensive monitoring, and IMED has developed
a monthly reporting format oriented at identifying critical
implementation issues. These reports will be reviewed on a regular
basis with the sector ministries and the Planning -aommission in order to
identify follow-up actions and improve inter-agency coordination for
critical approval procedures. DMED will redeploy its staff to ensure
that all of the identified priority projects are visited at least
quarterly. This system was introduced on a trial basis on March 1, 1992
(following a period of training for the sector agencies), and it will be
fully implemented in July, 1992.
(f) Short-term Improvements for Honitoring ADP Expenditures. The IMED
monitoring system is currently the major source of information on actual
expenditures for the ADP. Because of various reporting difficulties and
definitional problems, it has not been possible to reconcile the IMED
estimates with other estimates of actual ADP expenditures provided from
other sources (e.g., the cash flow estimates based on accounts
maintained by Bangladesh Bank). In the longer term, this situation can
be resolved by improving the expenditure reporting system maintained by
the Comptroller and Auditor General (see para. 60), but this effort will
not be fully operational for several years. In the meantime, a study is
currently being carried-out under the direction of IMED to identify
short-term measures to improve the accuracy and timeliness of
expenditure estimates provided by the IMED monitoring system, to be
implemented beginning with the FY93 budget.
54.   Current Expenditures.  The ability of the Government to increase public
investment will, to a significant extent, be determined by its success in
controlling the growth of current expenditures. The Government has maintained
tight control on the aggregate level of current expenditures over the past
year, and much of the expansion of subsidies in the FY90 budget has been
rolled-back. Nevertheless, as the recent large increases in public sector
wages demonstrate, there are strong political pressures to provide increased
expenditures to special interest groups. The Government is aware of this
problem and is actively seeking ways to control costs, although most of the
relatively easy actions have already been taken. In discussions with IDA and
the IMF, alternative approaches to achieving further cost savings have been
identified, including reductions in the cash deficit for foodgrain operations
through better management of procurement prices, reduced offtake volumes and
higher prices for monetized ration channels; reductions in subsidies where the



- 27 -
cost savings would not be passed on as losses to the financial sector (such as
reductions in interest subsidies accompanied by increases in the rates charged
to beneficiaries); reductions in losses by revenue-earning government
departments (especially Bangladesh Railways and the Post Office); reductions
in losses by public enterprises (although most losses are not reflected in the
budget except through indirect means such as defaulting on debt-service
obligations); and reductions in staffing through vigorous enforcement of
mandatory retirement requirements, especially for departments with excessive
numbers of lower-skilled employees. At the same time, IDA has emphasized that
further untargeted expenditure reductions such as across-the-board cuts in
non-wage operating expenses cannot be justified in view of the critical need
to maintain services in priority activities such as health and primary
education. While the Government is broadly in agreement with the approaches
outlined above, it has stated that it is not in a position to identify
specific cost reduction measures prior to the presentation of the budget in
each fiscal year. For this reason, performance would be monitored according
to a macro-level target; i.e., that the rate of growth of current expenditures
should not exceed the rate of growth of nominal GDP. Release of the second
tranche of the PRMAC would be based on satisfactory performance in achieving
this target based on actual expenditures in the PY92 budget (barring
unforeseen emergencies) and the preparation of a realistic budget for PY93
that meets the same target. Release of the third tranche of the PRMAC would
be based on similar considerations for the FY93 and FY94 budgets,
respectively.
55.   At the same time, the Government has provided assurances that it will
make increased funding available in real terms for high priority social
services and operations and maintenance, within the overall limits on the
budget specified above. It is expected that the requirements for current
funding of primary education, primary health and family planning activities
will increase rapidly over the next five years as a result of the expansion of
these sectors being supported by the General Education project and the Fourth
Population and Health project. Moreover, performance in improving maintenance
activities is considered by many donors to be a critical factor in funding
large infrastructure projects, such as those teing prepared under the Flood
Action Plan. As part of the PRMAC, the Finance Division has initiated
discussions with selected sectoral agencies to encourage them to submit well-
prepared and monitorable budget requests for increases in current expenditures
for high priority activities. For the FY93 budget, the areas to be targeted
are primary health and family planning services, primary education, road
maintenance, and maintenance of flood control and irrigation facilities. IDA
is providing assistance to these agencies in preparing budget submissions
through various 'cost cells' that have been established as part of ongoing
investment projects (e.g., the education finance cell established as part of
the General Education project and the O&M cell established as part of the BWDB
Systems Rehabilitation Project). Based on adequately documented and
monitorable budget submissions from the relevant sectoral agencies and
departments, the Finance Division would provide real increases in funding for
priority programs in primary education, primary health and family planning,
and for non-wage expenditures for road maintenance and O&M of flood control
and irrigation infrastructure. Satisfactory performance in achieving these



- 28 -
targets (both in terms of budgeted expenditures for the coming fiscal year and
actual expenditures for the previous fiscal year) would be monitored as part
of the second and third tranches of the PRMAC.
56.   In addition to the actions specified above, the Finance Division intends
to address various deficiencies in expenditure control procedures that have
resulted in large cost overruns in previous budgets. The Office of the
Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) is carrying out a study of changes in
the financial rules and regulations needed to control cost overruns arising
from the independent cheque-writing authority of various government
departments (especially the Roads and Highways Department, Public Works
Department, Public Health Engineering, Bangladesh Railways, etc.), and the
Finance Division recently requested the CAG to undertake a study of arrears
maintained by various government departments and agencies and the actions
needed to reduce the level of arrears to an acceptable level. Action plans to
implement the recommendations of both studies would be reviewed at the time of
second tranche, and satisfactory completion of the action plans would be
reviewed at third tranche. In addition, the Finance Division recently
established a Cell to review, inter alia, non-tax revenue collections
(including fees and charges under the authority of the Finance Division); the
work program for the Cell would be reviewed at second tranche, and the Cell
would be fully operational by the third tranche.
(iv) Aid Utilization
57.   A recent study of project aid utilization in Bangladesh found that the
average project experienced cost overruns on the order of 35-40 percent and
delays in completion by 60 percent as compared to the time estimated at
project approval.Y If the implied losses are representative of the entire
project portfolio, they would constitute an annual deadweight loss to the
economy on the order of $370 million per year, an amount equal to roughly 40
percent of average project aid disbursements during the past three years. As
an alternative indication of the cost of cumbersome aid utilization
procedures, it is estimated that project delays and cost overruns result in a
reduction in the long-term structural growth rate of the Bangladesh economy by
approximately one percentage point, so that the Government's objective of
increasing growth to 5 percent or more over the next decade could be largely
achieved through improvements in aid utilization performance.
58. The Government has taken a major step toward improving aid utilization
by prioritizing the public investment program and placing strict limits on the
growth of current expenditures, actions that have helped to reduce problems of
inadequate budgetary allocations for priority projects in the FY92 ADP.
Nevertheless, as the disappointing performance of the ADP during the first
half of FY92 demonstrates, these actions will not be sufficient to reduce
project implementation delays unless additional measures are taken to
Y The Utilization of Proiect Aid in Banaladesh, Development Alternatives
Inc., January 1988.



- 29 -
streamline institutional procedures. T'-- Government has already initiated
this process, and various improvements 1a procedures affecting aid utilization
would be supported by the PRMAC. The approach that has been adopted to deal
with systematic problems in aid utilization is the followingt
(a) Preparation of Guidelines. Guidelines concerning aid utilization
procedures are being revised in order to meet a standard of clarity,
consistency and comprehensiveness, so that the implementing agencies
have a detailed statement of the procedures to be followed. In some
cases, this objective can be achieved by issuing a revised circular,
while in other cases the guidelines have been revised on a comprehensive
basis.
(b) Performance Standards. Where relevant, performance standards have
been established for various stages in the approval process (or, as an
alternative, for the overall procedure in toto), and monitoring systems
will be established where necessary to identify areas where the
performance standard is not being met.
(c) Follow-up Actions. Follow-up actions have been identified where
needed to familiarize agencies with the new procedures and assist them
in implementing the new guidelines effectively.
59.   The following areas have been identified for improvements in aid
utilization procedures as part of the PRMAC:
(a) Procurement. The guidelines for procurement of goods and works
involving external aid have been revised with the assistance of IDA, and
they are currently being reviewed with other donors and within the
Government. Realistic performance standards will be established for
each stage in the approval process, including greater delegation of
financial authority for procurement decisions. The Government is
preparing an action plan covering, inter alia, training, procurement
planning, preparation of standard bidding documents, and monitoring of
procurement decisions, which would form the basis for reviewing
performance during the second and third tranches.
(b) Recruitment of Consultants. The guidelines for recruitment of
consultants are being revised in a similar manner. The revised
guidelines would be issued prior to second tranche, as well as an action
plan to implement the guidelines (as part of the overall action plan for
improving procurement).
(c) Technical Assistance Approval Procedures. The Government is
preparing revised guidelines for the approval of technical assistance
proposals, and a performance standard of three months has been
established as the maximum time period between submission of a proposal
by an implementing agency for approval and forwarding of the proposal to
the donor agency for financing. A monitoring system is being
established in the Economic Relations Division to monitor TA approvals,
and the Government has agreed to take corrective actions if the



- 30 -
performance standard is not being achieved on a consistent basis. The
revised guidelines would be issued prior to the second tranche, and a
review of experience would be carried-out as part of the third tranche.
td)   Proiect Approval Procedures.  The Government revised the project
approval procedures in FY91 to reduce delays and delegate greater
responsibility to the sectoral ministries. Because of uncertainties
associated with the change of government, however, a large backlog of
project approvals was allowed to accumulate, reaching in excess of 300
outstanding project proposals (including requests for revisions) at the
beginning of FY92. The ECNEC initiated an intensive series of meetings
to clear the approval backlog by December, although it is generally
agreed that delays resuiting from the approval backlog contributed to
the disappointing performance of the ADP during the first half of FY92.
This experience has demonstrated the need to make various improvements
in the project approval procedures, and revisions to the current
guidelines would be introduced prior to the second tranche.
(e) Funding of Land Acquisition. The legal procedures for land
acquisition are generally satisfactory, although they are often subject
to lengthy delays in practice. One factor that has often contributed to
project delays (especially for flood control and irrigation projects and
road construction) is insufficient local funding for land compensation
payments, as the allocations in the ADP are often inadequate to cover
the cost of land acquisition when the legal procedures have been
completed. In order to provide greater flexibility in allocating funds
for land acquisition, the Planning Commission has decided to establish a
block allocation in the FY93 ADP to provide supplementary funding for
land acquisition costs to the extent that the costs are not covered
within the normal ADP allocation.  The funds would be released by the
Member (Programming) of the Planning Commission on the basis of
documentation from the sector agency that the legal steps required for
the land acquisition process have been fully completed.
(f)  Project-Level Staffing.  The Minister of Planning has written a
letter to all ministries informing them that the appointment of project
directors and key project staff should be completed promptly, that staff
should remain with a project throughout its execution, and that the
practice of appointing part-time project directors in charge of multiple
projects should be discontinued, except for relatively minor projects.
The Secretaries of the concerned ministries have been instructed to
monitor changes in project directors and key project personnel closely
to ensure efficient project implementation.
(g) Special Accounts. The Finance Division issued a circular on
September 2, 1991 allowing executing agencies to establish interest-
bearing Convertible Taka Special Accounts (CONTASA) in commercial banks
to finance project-related expenditures. No further actions are needed
at this point.



- 31 -
(h) Commodity Aid. The Economic Relations Division issued a circular
on February 2, 1992 stating that all coummodity aid, including tied aid,
will be made available to eligible importers on a first-come, first-
served basis through any authorized dealer in foreign exchange, unless
the agreement with the concerned donor agency specifically requires
direct allocations to Importers. This change is in response to a
recommendation by IDA to rely increasingly on market-based allocation
procedures for commodity aid, drawing in part on a study requested by
the Aid Group in 1986." Arrangements have been made to allocate
commodity aid through the Exchange Control Department of Bangladesh
Bank, rather than on the basis of direct allocations to importers as
currently administered by ERD. Over the next several months, ERD
intends to contact donors to encourage them to adopt this procedure for
current and planned commodity aid programs. Progress in extending
market-based allocation procedures for commodity aid would be monitored
as part of second and third tranches.
(v) Institutional Strengthening
60.   The PRMAC would support institutional reforms in the following areas
that are considered essential for sound budget management in the medium term:
(a)   Budget and Accounting Reform.  Accounting information on the
composition of expenditures is not available on a timely and
accurate basis, and the budget structure lacks transparency and
consistency. The budget and accounting system has not been
modernized for a number of years, and it is unable to support the
demands being placed on it in terms of expenditure monitoring and
control. In order to address this situation, the Government
established a Committee on Reforms in Budgeting and Expenditure
Control (CORBEC), which has prepared a comprehensive analysis of
the existing system and recommendations for upgrading the
structure of budget and accounts over a period of several years,
including the introduction of modern data-processing equipment as
an integral part of the accounting system. As part of this
process, terms of reference have been prepared for the initial
Phase It Design Study, which, inter alia, would prepare a revised
classification system for budget and accounts (including the
introduction of computerization), develop outline training
programs for senior officials and staff involved in the
implementation of the new system, with particular emphasis for on-
the-job training and short courses conducted on-site, and develop
a detailed action program for implementation of the
recommendations over a period of 4-5 years. The Phase I: Design
Study would be initiated prior to the second tranche, and the
IV The Utilization of Commodity Aid in Bangladesh, Development Alternatives
Inc., May 1988.



- 32 -
results of this study would be reviewed and used to prepare terms
of reference for the Phase II: Implementation Program.
(b)   Strengthening of Investment Programming.  The Government has
delegated greater responsibility for project preparation and
review to the sectoral ministries, while strengthening the
capacity of the Planning Commission to carry-out macro-level
investment programming activities in the context of the TYRIP and
to coordinate the preparation of sectoral investment strategies.
This component will provide technical assistance to the Planning
Commission, including its sector divisions, to prepare and update
the TYRIP on a regular basis, as well as strengthening the
planning cells in two sectoral ministries on a trial basis to
provide inputs for investment programming and carry-out expanded
project analysis activities. The financing agreement for this
study was signed with UND? in January 1992 (IDA is assisting as a
cooperating agency), and the performance of the study would be
mcnitored as part of the second tranche.
(c)   Internal Debt Management and Reporting.  The Ministry of Finance
does not have the capacity to monitor the repayment of internal
debt-service obligations by public enterprises and semi-autonomous
public agencies on a regular basis, which has resulted in
substantial arrears and large implicit subsidies. As part of the
PRMAC, the Finance Division has contracted with a local financial
institution (Bangladesh Shilpa Bank) to consolidate and update the
debt register and establish a system for monitoring debt-service
payments. This system would enable the Ministry of Finance to
establish standard on-lending terms for government loans that are
compatible with those charged by financial institutions, and to
prepare realistic debt-servicing schedules for agencies that have
accumulated significant arrears. Public enterprises would also be
required to pay debt-service obligations on a cash basis beginning
in FY93 rather than using ADP allocations to cover their
obligations, a practice that has severely hampered project
implementation.
Summary of Actions for the Second and Third Tranches
61.   The following actions which are listed in the Matrix of Policy Actions
(Schedule C) would be monitored in connection with the release of the second
and third tranches of the PRMAC.
ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR TO SECOND TRANCHE.
Macroeconomic Framework
(i)   Prepare a medium-term macroeconomic framework for FY93-95 in the
context of the PFP.



- 33 -
(ii)   Fiscal Targets.  Achieve the fiscal targets specified in the PFP
for FY92 and prepare a budget for FY93 that meets the following
criteria: increase revenues by 0.5 percent of GDP; rate of growth
of current expenditures not to exceed the rate of growth of
nominal GDP; and increase in the ADP consistent with these
targets.
Tax Reform
(iii)   VAT.  Include contractual processing services and at least natural
gas and cigarettes in the VAT; limit the VAT exemption for small
and cottage industries to enterprises with turnover below the
threshold for the turnover tax; review the feasibility of
expanding the VAT register to include commercial importers and
exporters, and wholesalers serving manufacturers, and prepare an
action plan for implementation during FY93; initiate a study to
examine alternative taxation regime for yarn and textiles; and
refrain from further substantive exemptions to the VAT.
(iv)   Successfully implement the action plan for strengthening VAT
administration referred to in para. 45, and prepare a similar
action plan for FY93.
*v)   Direct Taxes.  Introduce an exemption limit in place of the
current filing threshold for the personal income tax; replace the
personal investment allowance with an investment tax credit;
introduce additional measures, if needed, so that the overall
package of direct tax reforms is at least revenue neutral; and
initiate a study of alternative tax incentives for investment to
replace the company tax holidays after 1995.
(vi)   Successfully Implement the action plan for improvements in direct
tax administration referred to in para 48.
Expenditure Prioritization
(vii)   Public Investment.  Prepare TYRIP for FY93-95, including the ADP
for FY93, which meets the following criteria; resource envelope
consistent with the macroeconomic framework in the PFP; adequate
funding, including local funds, for high priority projects; and
allocation of no more than 25 percent of available local funds to
locally-funded projects and block grants (excluding block grants
for land acquisition and payment of custom duties and VAT on
project-related imports).
(viii)   Preparation of at least three sectoral investment review papers;
preparation of a dated action plan for restructuring ten large
ongoing projects; preparation of project pruning report as input
to FY93 ADP; satisfactory implementation of the monthly monitoring



- 34 -
system for high priority projects; and introduce short-term
improvements in monitoring ADP expenditures.
(ix)   Current Expenditures.  Provide real increases in funding in FY93
current budget for priority programs in primary education, primary
health and family planning, and for non-wage O&M expenditures for
roads and flood control and irrigation infrastructure, based on
adequately documented and monitorable budget submissions from the
sectoral agencies.
(x)   Prepare dated action plans to reduce arrears by Government
departments and agencies and limit cost overruns by departments
with independent cheque-writing authority; and establish a Cell in
the Finance Division to monitor non-tax revenues.
Aid Utilization
(xi)  Issue guidelines for procurement of goods and works, recruitment
of consultants, and approval of technical assistance; prepare
action plan to implement procurement guidelines; monitor TA
procedures to achieve target of three months for approval of
proposals.
(xii)   Issue revised guidelines for project approval; introduce block
allocation in ADP for land acquisition; review commodity aid
programs to identify those programs for which market-based
allocation procedures can be introduced.
Institutional Strengthening
(xiii)   Initiate Phase Is Design Study for budget and accounting reforms.
(xiv)   Initiate technical assistance program to strengthen investment
programming.
(xv)   Introduce debt management system in Ministry of Finance, including
updating and consolidation of internal debt register; establish
standard on-lending terms for government loans; complete
reconciliation of subsidiary loan agreements for selected
agencies;     require that all debt-service obligations be paid on
a cash basis, without using ADP allocations for this purpose.
ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR TO THIRD TRANCHE.
Macroeconomic Framework
(i)   Prepare a medium-term macroeconomic framework for FY94-96 in the
context of the PFP.



- 35 _
(ii)   Fiscal Targets.  Achieve the fiscal targets specified in the PFP
for FY93 and prepare a budget for FY94 that meets the following
criteriat increase revenues by 0.5 percent of GDP; rate of growth
of current expenditures not to exceed the rate of growth of
nominal GDP; and increase in the ADP consistent with these
targets.
Tax Reform
(iii)   VAT.  Include all remaining goods currently subject to excise tax
in the VAT; introduce appropriate taxation on yarn and textiles
based on the results of the study initiated under the second
tranche; satisfactory implementation of the action plan for
registration of commercial importers and exporters, and
wholesalers serving manifacturers; implement agreed
recommendations of study of tax incentives to replace company tax
holidays; and refrain from further substantive exemptions to the
VAT.
(iv)   Successfully implement the action plan for strengthening VAT
administration during FY93.
xv)   Direct Taxes.  Successfully complete the action plan for
improvements in direct tax administration referred to in para. 48.
Expenditure Prioritization
(vi)   Public Investment.  Prepare TYRIP for FY94-96, including the ADP
for FY94, which meets the following criteria: resource envelope
consistent with the macroeconomic framework in the PFP; adequate
funding, including local funds, for high priority projects; and
allocation of no more than 25 percent of available local funds to
locally-funded projects and block grants (excluding block grants
for lond acquisition and payment of custom duties and VAT on
project-related imports).
(vii)   Preparation of at least three additional sectoral investment
review papers; satisfactory progress in implementation of the
restructuring program for ten large ongoing projects; and
preparation of project pruning report as input to FY94 ADP.
(viii)   Current Expenditures.  Provide real increases in funding in FY94
current budget for priority programs in primary education, primary
health and family planning, and for non-wage O&M expenditures for
roads and flood control and irrigation infrastructure, based on
adequately documented and monitorable budget submissions from the
sectoral agencies; and monitor actual expenditures for these
categories in the PY93 budget.



- 36 -
(ix)   Implementation of action plans to reduce arrears and limit cost
overruns by Government departments and agencies; and make Cell for
monitoring non-tax revenues fully operational.
Aid Utilization
(x)   Implementation of action plan to improve procurement; review
approval procedures for technical assistance against agreed
performance standards and make improvements as needed.
(xi)   Introduce market-based allocation procedures for commodity aid
where feasible.
Institutional Strengthening
(xii)   Completion of Phase I: Design Study and preparation of terms-of-
reference for Phase IIs Implementation Program for budget and
accounting reforms.
(xiii)   Complete consolidation and updating of internal debt register; and
make debt management system fully operational.
C. Structure of the Credit
62.  Use of Credit Proceeds.  The PRMAC would provide a credit of SDR 109.3
million (US$ 150 million equivalent), which represents about 1 percent of
Bangladesh's gross import requirements for the three-year period covered by
the reform program (FY92-94). Disbursement procedures would follow
arrangements established under previous adjustment credits, which operate
efficiently and allow for rapid disbursement of the credit proceeds. All
importers, both private and public, would have access to credit funds on a
first-come, first-served basis through any authorized dealer in foreign
exchange. A Special Account of USS 20 million would be established in
Bangladesh Bank to disburse the proceeds of the credit on the basis of fully-
documented applications from commercial banks. Disbursements from the Special
Account for contracts below $ 100,000 or equivalent would be on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOEs); disbursements for contracts in excess of
$100,000 or equivalent would be fully documented. Documents relating to
withdrawals under SOEs would be retained by Bangladesh Bank for review by the
auditors and by IDA supervision missions.  The accounts related to the PRMAC
would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and a
certified copy of the audit report would be provided to IDA within nine months
after the end of each fiscal year. The audit report would contain separate
opinions regarding the controls and procedures adopted for the SOEs and for
handling the Special Account.
63.   Procurement.  All procurement under the credit would take place in
accordance with Operational Directive 11.03 (Procurement Arrangements for



- 37 -
Adjustment Operations). All imports would be eligible for procurement under
the credit, with the following exceptions:
(i)   A short negative list of ineligible items.
(ii)  Imports from countries that are not eligible under IDA's
Guidelines for Procurement.
(iii) Imports directly financed from other external sources.
(iv)  Import orders costing less than $50,000 equivalent in value.
(v)   Import orders costing in excess of US$5 million equivalent, unless
procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures
acceptable to IDA.
(vi) Purchases of commonly traded commodities such as food and
petroleum except on the basis of competitive procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA.
Bangladesh currently does not require preshipment inspection of imports, and
this matter is being discussed with the Government as part of the broader
package of trade reforms in the proposed Second Industrial Sector Adjustment
Credit (ISAC-2). Arrangements with respect to preshipment inspection that are
agreed under ISAC-2 would be applied to the remaining tranches of the PRMAC.
64.   Tranching.  The credit proceeds would be provided in three equal
tranches, with the first tranche available shortly after Board approval,
subject to standard effectiveness conditions. The second tranche is expected
to be available around September 1992 (following the presentation of the FY93
budget), subject to agreement on a sound macroeconomic framework including
targets for revenues, current expenditures and the public investment program,
as well as the specific actions listed in Schedule C. The third tranche is
expected to be available around September 1993 on the basis of similar
conditions. The closing date for the credit would be June 30, 1994.
65.   Coordination with Other Donors.  The PRMAC addresses a number of issues
that have been a major focus of the country economic dialogue between the
donors and the Government over the past several years, both at the annual
Paris Aid Group meetings and at many meetings of the Local Consultations Group
in Dhaka, including the Kid-Term Review meeting in November, 1990. IDA has
played a central coordinating role between the Government and the donors in
the discussion of aid utilization procedures and prioritization of the public
expenditure program. In recognition of the importance of the PRMAC for long-
term development, the Federal Republic of Germany would provide parallel
financing of DM 30 million through the Kreditanstalt fur Viederaufbau (KfW) to
support various tranches of the PRMAC. The United Kingdom through the
Overseas Development Administration has indicated interest in providing
support for budget and ae_ounting reform and tax administration and possibly
participating in the second and third tranches of the PRMAC. The United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) is providing technical assistance to
strengthen investment programming and indirect tax administration (including
financing of the VAT resident adviser), and it has indicated interest in
providing longer-term support for budget and accounting reform. The United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) has linked the
disbursement of local counterpart funds generated by food assistance programs



- 38 _
to agreement on priorities in the TYRIP, thereby providing support for the
local funding requirements of the public investment program. Finally, staff
of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) participated in several missions of the
PRMAC to discuss expenditure priorities, and close coordination has been
maintained on the issues to be addressed in the PRMAC.
66. Implementation and Monitoring. By the nature of the budget process, the
PRYAC is a complex operation involving two major ministries and several
implementing agencies. The principal agencies involved in the preparation and
implementation of the PRXAC are the following:
(i)   The Finance Division in the Ministry of Finance is the lead
coordinating agency for both the ESAP and PRMAC programs within
the framework provided by the PFP. Within the PRMAC, the Finance
Division is responsible for agreement on the overall macroeconomic
framework for the budget, prioritization of the current
expenditure program, implementation of the budget and accounting
reforms, and improvement of the internal debt management system.
(ii) The Economic Relations Division (ERD) in the Ministry of Finance
provides coordination between the Government and the donors on
aid-related matters. Within the PRMAC, ERD is responsible for
implementing and monitoring many of the improvements in aid
utilization procedures.
(iii) The National Board of Revenue (NBR) in the Ministry of Finance is
responsible for direct and indirect tax reform and improvements in
tax administration.
(iv) The Planning Commission in the Ministry of Planning is responsible
for the management of the public investment program, preparation
of the TYRIP, coordination with the sectoral ministries in the
preparation of investment strategy reviews and restructuring of
lower priority projects, macroeconomic forecasting (in cooperation
with the Finance Division), various improvements in aid
utilization procedures, and implementation of the UNDP project for
strengthening investment programming.
(v)   The Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED) in
the Ministry of Planning is responsible for project monitoring and
evaluation, including advising the Planning Commission on project
pruning, and implementing the improved monitoring system for high
priority projects.
Although it is not identified as a direct participant in the PRMAC, the Office
of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in the Ministry of Finance plays
an important role by advising the Finance Division on technical matters
related to expenditure control (such as control of inter-agency arrears) and
actively participating in (and eventually implementing much of) the
improvements in budget and accounting systems.



- 39 -
67.   Technical Assistance.  As indicated above, technical assistance for the
implementation of the PRMAC would be provided by ODA (accounting and budget
reforms and possible support for direct tax administration) and UNDP
(strengthening investment programming, indirect tax administration, and
possible support for Phase 2 of the accounting and budget reforms). IDA has
provided short-term technical assistance in the preparation of the PRMAC
through local consultants involved in project preparation activities, such a8
estimating the revenue impact of the direct tax reforms, reviewing alternative
tax regimes for yarn and textiles, and identifying short-term improvements in
ADP expenditure monitoring. Funds are being made available through IDA's
ongoing Fifth Technical Assistance Credit to purchase computers to strengthen
direct tax administration. Additional technical assistance requirements which
may be identified during the implementation of the PRMAC are expected to be
financed by bilateral donors or by UNDP or through the proposed IDA Sixth
Technical Assistance Credit, which is scheduled for approval during FY92.
These arrangements are satisfactory for the purpose of implementing the PRMAC.
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement
68.   IDA's Past Experience with Adjustment Lending.  A recent OED report has
reviewed IDA's experience in supporting policy reform in Bangladesh in the
context of thirteen annual Import Program Credits received up through FY86.
Based on a decision of the Loan Committee in February 1986, IDA discontinued
the IPCs and switched to a mix of sectoral and structural adjustment credits
in order to bring adjustment operations in Bangladesh closer in line with
overall Bank policies in this area. Three adjustment operations have been
approved since FY86; draft PCRs have been prepared for the Industrial Sector
Credit (FY87) and the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (FY89), and the
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FY90) is under implementation.  The
experience with these credits confirms the major conclusions of the OED
report. Adjustment lending in Bangladesh has been effective in encouraging
the Government to maintain a sound macroeconomic framework. However, the
Government's performance in meeting specific conditions in adjustment credits
has been generally mixed and often subject to long delays, as well as
instances of backsliding. While most of the reforms agreed with the
Government are eventually implemented (although often outside the specific
timeframe of the credit), this experience provides several lessons for
adjustment lending that have been incorporated into the design of the PRMAC.
These include the need tos (i) establish a satisfactory basis of understanding
with the Government on the need for and expected impact of proposed reforms.
drawing if possible on prior economic and sector work; (ii) establish the
Government's commitment to the program by asking for substantial
implementation of the most important policy reforms prior to the approval of
the credit; (iii) focus policy agreements on a well-defined set of actions;
and (iv) once the policy actions are agreed with the Government, monitor them
closely and ask for full compliance.
v Bangladesh: Review of the Experience with Policy Reforms in the 1980s, OED
Report No. 8874, June 29, 1990.



- 40 -
69.   Rationale for IDA's Involvement.  As indicated above, IDA has played a
leading role in raising issues of public resource management to the attention
of the Government, both as chairman of the Aid Group and through the
preparation of several major economic studies and country economic memoranda
focusing specifically on public resource management issues. The PRMAC
therefore represents the culmination of a policy dialogue based on extensive
analysis and consultations with the Government, and it would provide a
framework for continuing to monitor the implementation of the reforms over a
sufficient time period to ensure that they are fully institutionalized. IDA
is the only agency that combines the requisite experience of macroeconomic
management and detailed knowledge of expenditure priorities at the sectoral
level necessary to prepare the PRMAC, and approval of the credit would provide
a strong endorsement of the Government's continuing commitment to address
these problems in a sound and responsible fashion.
70.   Social Impact of the PRMAC.  A recent IDA reportlg demonstrated that
while many Government programs are oriented to serving the needs of the poor,
the major constraint on providing adequate services has been poor
implementation performance, owing in large part to macro-level constraints on
the public expenditure program that would be addressed under the PRMAC. The
PRMAC is therefore expected to have a positive impact on poverty alleviation
by improving the flow of resources into high priority programs benefiting the
poor (especially primary education, primary health services, family planning,
nutrition, rural development and rural infrastructure programs) and by
increasing long-term growth through higher public investment. The tax reforms
have been designed to avoid burdening the poor by exempting moat basic food
items (rice, wheat, cooking oil, etc.) and agricultural inputs (fertilizer,
pesticides, minor irrigation equipment, etc.) from the VAT, while the
exemption limit for the personal income tax would be set at a high level for
administrative and income distribution reasons. While there will undoubtedly
be opposition to the reforms from relatively well-off special interest groups
that benefit from distortions in the current fiscal system, both the pace of
the reform program and the focus of the major policy actions have been
designed with social equity as a primary consideration.
71.   Environmental Impact.  The PRMAC would have no direct impact on the
environment. To the extent that the policy actions included in the PRMAC are
successful in speeding-up the implementation of development projects, there
may be an indirect effect on the environment, but this should be addressed in
the context of specific investment projects.
72.   Risks.  Since the PRMAC would provide support for a major part of the
macroeconomic program of the Government, the principal risks regarding the
achievement of the objectives of the credit must be judged on a country basis.
With regard to the macroeconomic framework, the experience of Bangladesh (and
South Asian countries in general) demonstrates that while occasional periods
of instability may occur, the overall pattern is one of reasonably sound
financial management. A much more difficult proposition, however, is to
reverse the decline in public savings and investment that has become a
prominent economic feature for many countries during the 1980s, including many
W Bangladesh: Poverty and Public Expenditures--An Evaluation of the Impact of
Selected Government Programs, World Bank Report No. 7946-BD, January 16, 1990.



- 41 -
industrialized countries. Bangladesh faces a difficult history of political
instability, susceptibility to internal and external shocks, and high
expectations arising from the prolonged period of slow growth performance,
which will make sustained implementation of a medium-term program of fiscal
reforms difficult. At the same time, the new Government has reiterated its
firm commitment to reversing the adverse economic trends of the past decade,
and it has demonstrated its commitment to this objective during an
exceptionally difficult period (which has included political unrest, returning
workers from the Gulf region, a devastating cyclone, an influx of refugees
along the southern border, and labor agitation at home). The actions already
taken, including the introduction of the VAT, prioritization of the public
investment program, improvements in aid utilization procedures, and
satisfactory performance with respect to the ESA2 program during FY91 and the
first half of FY92, demonstrate a continuing commitment to the reform program
outlined in the PRMAC. On this basis, the risks that are inherent in an
operation as broad and complex as the PRMAC are fully justifiable.
73.   At the same time, past experience with adjustment lending in Bangladesh
demonstrates that while the Government may be committed to achieving the
overall objectives of the credit, slippages and possible problems of non-
compliance may be expected at the technical level. For this reason, the
preparation of the PRMAC took place over an extended period (beginning with
the preparation of major ESW reports in FY88), so the Government is fully
informed about the recommendations of the Bank and has had an opportunity to
adapt them to the conditions prevailing in Bangladesh. The appraisal of the
PRMAC was delayed until after many of the reforms included in the first
tranche had been implemented, so that a major part of the reform package is
already in place. Approval of the PRMAC is therefore justified on the basis
of the actions already taken, and the PRMAC will provide a useful framework
for continuing to monitor the implementation of the reform program over the
next two years.
PART III.  REXXt9MDTION
74. 1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments.
Washington, D.C.
April 3, 1992



BANIADESH: KEY MACROECONOUIC SNDICATORS o/
(In percent, unles  otherwis noted)
PRELIII.   ------PR     CTED   b/     -
1986    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1996
COP Growth Rate                        8.9     4.8      4.2      2.9      2.6      6.8     8.8      8.8      5.0      5.0      6.0
GDP/Capita Growth Rate                 1.4     1.8      1.7      0.4      0.0      8.8     0.8      0.8      2.6      2.8      2.6
GOP Deflator                          11.1      9.8    11.0      7.8      7.7      8.1     8.6      6.6      6.0      6.6      6.0
Debt srvice (In WSJ)                   416     470      677      523      628      641     846      566      66C      806      647
Debt sorvice/XGS                      24.6    28.2    27.8    22.6    23.1    19.6    22.7    18.8    16.7    16.6    16.1
Debt service/OP                        2.7     8.0      8.8      2.8      2.6      2.8      2.7     2.2      2.0      2.0      1.9
Gros Investment/COP                   12.6    12.8    12.6    12.0    12.2    11.8    11.7    12.8    13.8    14.1    14.6
Domstic Savings/tCP                    1.9     2.2      8.1      2.4      2.0      1.9     4.8      8.8      4.7      s.a      6.0
National Savings/CDP                   4.4     6.8      7.0      0.2      7.1      6.9     7.4      6.8      7.8      8.2      8.7
Pubic Investment/CP                    6.4     6.0      6.8      6.0      6.7      6.7     5.8      6.6      6.0      8.4      6.6
Pubile Savings/CDP b/                  1.2     1.2      1.2    -0.4       0.4    -0.8      0.6      0.8      1.7      2.1      2.3
Private InemtOP Cl                     7.4     8.8      6.2      6.4      0.6     8.1      6.1      7.0      7.8      7.7      7.9
Private Svings/GDP                     8.1     4.2      6.0      6.8      8.7      6.6      6.9     6.0      6.6      6.1      6.4
Ratio of Public/Private Inv           0.7      1.0      1.0      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.8      0.6      0.8      0.9
Government Revenues/GOP                8.     9.1      8.9      8.9      9.6    903    10.0    10.8    11.6    12.0    12.6
Govenment Expenditures/CP             18.2    18.6    17.8    18.7    18.7    17.1    17.2    18.2    18.0    18.2    18.6
OD  icit(-) or Surplus(*)/GOP         -7.4    -7.6    -8.4    -7.7    -7.2    -7.7    -7.2    -7.4    -6.6    -0.2    -6.0
Export Growth Rate                    16.1   -12.8    81.1    14.7        4.4    18.6    11.0       8.8    138.      12.9    12.6
Exporte/COP                           6.0      6.8      6.1      6.6      6.8     0.7      8.8      7.2      7.4      7.7      7.9
Import Orowth Rate                    12.5   -10.7    10.B    14.0    18.0    11.4    -8.4    11.4           7.8      9.6     9.7
Imports/COP                           17.0    16.2    14.9    15.7    16.6    16.6    13.6    16.4    18.1    18.2    18.2
Current Account (USS)                -1814   -1084    -966    -1111   -1876   -1641    -981   -1084    -1207   -1814   -t9
Current Account/GOP                  -4.4    -7.0    -6.6    -.8    -B.7    -8.8    -4.1    -4.4    -4.7    -6.7              4.4
------------------                           ----------------
s/ Oata for fiscal year ending June 80.
b/ Based on revised PFP projectlons for FY92-FY98, using revised GDP estimates.
e/ Oling to data limitations, operating surpluses and deficits of public onterprises are
included In private savings, while a portion of public enterprise Investment
(that port which Is channeled through me ADP) Is Included In public sector Investment.                                                      Ka
April 8, 1992
o A
l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~(



- 43 -
Schedule A
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS so  o 3
IUSS mtIlons at current priaem)
-     -    Actual-    Pr llm. -                    --ProJected b/-----
1980  108N  1987  1908  1989  1980   1991  1992  1998  1994  1099
A. Exports of Goods  NFS           865  1162  1801  1486  1596  1903   2118  2272   2550  2670  8252
1. Merchandise (FOB)              722  904  1074  1281   1286  1624    1718   1860  2116  2410  2764
2. Non-Factor Services            168   226   227   255   812   379    895   412   484   460   46n
B. Imports of Goods A NFS         -2545  -2864 -2676  -8252 -8701  -4116  -8798  -4097  -457a  -5855  -1600
1. Msrhandis (FPB)              -2872 -2647  -2620 -2986  -8275  -3769  -3470  -?875   -4202 -4940 -5705
2. Non-Faetor Servtiee           -178  -217  -26B  -266  -820  -8S7   -818  -842  -876   -415  -455
C. Resource Balance               -1660 -1702 -1576  -1766  -2108  -2218  -1675  -1I15  -2028 -2465  -2906
0. Net Factor Incou1                 14   -00  -122  -188   -109  -122   -102  -128  -110  -107  -111
1. Factor Recelpts                 .      58    ss    ss        0    68      65     41    49    59    69
2. Factor Poyemnt                 -76   -148  - 67  -189  -167  -190   -167  -164   -159   -166  -180
(interest payuents)
E. Not Current Transefr             210   47?   781   788   6s8   802    846   884   981   976  1026
1. Current Recelpt.
a. workers remittances        197   4       696   787    771   761    764   802   842   684   029
b. other current trans.        .       0    85    51    65    41          62     82    S9    94    99
2. Current Payment                        ..         ..     ..    .                         ..     .
F. Current Account Balance        -1486  -1814  -906  -1111  -1876  -1541   -981  -1064  -1207  -1614 -1991
0. Long-Term Capital Inflow        1276  1246  1886  1475  1518  1608   1788   1668   1958  2246  2471
1. Direct Investment                0      0      2      0      0      0       2      0      0     0      0
2. Official Capital Grant.        592   701   O6R    628   678   766         832   71    8650   954  1084
8. Not LT Loans (DRS data)        596   559   788   711   841   858    920   070   1108  1292  1487
a. Disburement.                 ..    ..    ..    ..       .   1044   1120  1184  1887  1586  1695
b. Repyment                    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..   18S          200   214   284   244   258
4. Othor LT Inflow  (Net)          87   -12   -109   -59    -1   -21    -21          ..    ..
M. Total Other Item,s (net)         -48   -10  -109  -21    -82  -275   -425  -408   -682   -471  -284
1. Net Short Term Capltal          11    -5  -100  -160  -101  -181           ..    ..    ..    ..
2. Capitol Flow N.E.I.              0      0      0      0             0      ..    ..    ..    .. 
8. Errors and Omlsions            -54    -5   .48    -59    69  -144          ..    ..    ..    ..
1. Change In Not Reserve.           203    77  -208  -145  -105    218   -877  -216    44   -161  -246
1. Nt Credltfrm the IF            21    -7   184    18    66  -164           4      68      2   -74   -60
2. Other Reserve Chango           162    64  -887   -158  -178    877   -861   -299   -6    -67  -198
t- indicates Incrorea
/ Data for fIsc a  yer ending June 80.
b/ Based on PFP projections for fY92-98.



- 44 -
Schedule A
BALANCE Of PAYWM
(USS  lil,ons at current pries)
1085------        t 10--6--10----108 1   Pr. l.  -ProJectd.------
198S   19U   in?T  19 8      uo 199    1990 1081   106    100n   1984  1085
Shares of GOP (current USt)s a/
1. Resource Balance              -13.0  -10.8  -4.9  -9.8  -10.4   -9.7    -7.4   -7.0   -7.0   -8.7  -9.2
2. Total Interest Payments        -0.8  -0.9  -0.9  -1.0   -0.0   -0.0    -0.7   -0.7   -0.6  -0.6  -0.e
S. Current Account BElnceo       -11.2   -8.2  -5.S  -5.9   4.3   -6.7    -4.0  -4.4  -4.?  -5.7  -4.8
4. LT Capital Inflow (line 0)    10.0   7.8    7.0    7.8    7.5    7.0        7.7   7.1    7.5    7.9   7.9
5. NtC Credit from the IMF         0.2    0.0   0.8   0.1    0.8   -0.7        0.0    0.8    0.0  -0.2  -0.2
Memorandum Items
GDP (millions of current USS)      12792  16089 17665  10880  20286  22884   22487 28017  25888 23480  8120
Foreign Exchange Resrves
1. Intel Resorve  (IFS lid)        800    881    729   078    041
2.  Cold (end yr London price)      ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
8. Gros Reserves lml. Gold         881    408    72    0897   902    585       085   1265   1881   1441    664
4.  Qr. Res. In Months Imports     1.7    2.2    8.4   a.6    8.4    1.9       8.8    4.0    8.8    8.5    8.5
Exchane Rates (LCU's/US8):
1.  Now. Off. X-Rate (IFS rh)    16.45  20.06  80.68  81.24  82.14  82.08
2.  Real Eff. X-Rat. Baso 1980  100.00 107.88  89.08 37.20 90.14  87.90
8. X-Rato for QN Conversion
a  Projectlons based on revlsd National Income serieo.



- 45 -
Schedule B
BALAESH
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of tey Processing Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Credit:         36 months
(b)  Staff Members Involved in             Mr. Richard Westin - Task Manager
Credit Preparationt                  Mr. Hafez Ghanem
Mr. Pradeep Mitra
Mr. Syed Nizamuddin
Mr. Nadaraja Ramachandran
Mr. James Sackey
(c)  Identification Mission :              May 12 - 25, 1989
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                    November 19 - December 19, 1991
Ce)  Negotiations:                         March 16-20, 1992
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        May 31. 1992
Cg)  List of Relevant OED Reports:         Bangladesh: Review of the Experience
with Policy Reforms in the 1980s,
June 29, 1990; OED Report No. 8874.



BANGLADES8
PUBLIC RESOURCE M  A    NT ADJUSTMENT  CREDIT
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
POLICY OBJUCtIS            RECENT MEASURES TAIKEN                  FURTEER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT          TIMING
1. MACROECONOHIC FRAMEWORK: Maintain a sound macroeconomic framework, including targets for, (1) trowth of
revenues s (ii) control of current expenditures; and (iii) increase in public investment.
Maintain sound medium-     Approval of PFP for FY92-94 and         Preparation of medium-term            Second and third
term macroeconomic         satisfactory mid-term review of         macroeconomic framework in           trenches.
framework.                 performance for ESAP program.           context of PFP.
Establish realistic        FY92 budget provides fors               Satisfactory performance in           Second and third    0
targets for revenues,      (i) increase in revenues by 0.5         achieving targets for previous       tranches.
current expenditures,      percent of GDP; (il) rate of growth    fiscal year, and preparation of
and public investment.     of current expenditures not to          realistic budget for coming
exceed rate of growth of nominal        fiscal year that includes the
GDP; and (iii) increase in ADP          same targets for revenues,
consistent with the above targets.      current expenditures, and public
investment.
IR
o



POLICY 0o2CIsu'n            ,zcurT m&suusm u TmmiFRTER ACTTION  MUiu CREITuum
II. T&X REFOIM: Improve efficiency and equity of reveue structure.
A. Indirect Taxation
Introduce value-added      VAT introduced in FY92 budget.           Inclusion In VAT of at least          Second and third
tax to replace sales tax                                            natural gas and cigarettes (FY93    trsnches.
on imports and most                                                 budget) and all remaining goods
excise duties on                                                    currently subject to excise tax
domestic goods.                                                     (FY94 budget).
Exemption for small and cottage      Second tranche.
industries to be limited to
enterprises with annual turnover
less than turnover tax threshold.
Inclusion of contractual             Second tranche.
processing services in VAT.
No further substantive exemptions   Second and third
to VAT.                              tranches.
Introduction of appropriate          Initiation of
taxation on yarn and textiles.       study - second
tranche.
Satisfactory
Implementation -
third tranche.
n



POLICY OJ MECE              RNCET ISURES TAflh                      FURTUU ACTOIONS UADER CREDIT          TnG
Review administrative feasibility   Review
of expanding VAT register to         administrative
include, inter alia, registration   feasibility and
of all commercial importers and      adopt action
exporters, and wholesalers           plan - second
serving manufacturers.               tranche.
Satisfactory
implementation ^
third tranche.
Improve VAT                 Preparation of action plan dated        Preparation of similar action         Second tranche.
administration.             February 6, 1992 with targets fort      plan for administrative
(i) increase in number of registered   improvements during PY93.                                  c
traders ({ii) improvement in
proportion of traders submitting        Satisfactory performance in           Second and third
regular monthly returns to 80           implementing action plan for          tranches.
percent: (iiI) improvements in          previous fiscal year.
internal documentation; (iv)
expansion of management training
programss and (v) computer cell
integration.
D. Direct Taxation
Improve equity and         Introduction of witholding tax on        Replacement of filing threshold      Second tranche.
efficiency of income        interest (PY91 budget) and dividends   with conventional exemption limit
tax.                        (FY92 budget); inclusion of             and replacement of personal
entertainment allowances in tax base   investment allowance with a tax
(FY92 budget); withdrawal of            credit, accompanied by measures
exemption for capital gains on          to maintain revenue neutrality of                       0 0
assets subject to investment            overall tax package.
allowance (FY91 budget); reduction
of ceiling for investment allowance                                                             0 0
to Tk 100,000 (FY92 budget).                                                                    1 I
co



POLICY OBJECTIVES          RECENT HEASURES TAKEN                   FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT          TIMING
Limitation of time period for           Introduce alternative tax            Initiation of
granting company tax holidays to        incentives for investment to         study - second
1995 (FY92 budget).                     replace company tax holidays.        tranche.
Adopt time-bound
action plan -
third tranche.
Improve direct tax                                                 Expand coverage of self-             Satisfactory
administration.                                                    assessment scheme to cover            implementation -
majority of assessees with income   Second and third    W
of Tk 80,000 or less; increase       tranches.
the number of registered
assessees, including the
proportion of assessees with
income greater than Tk 80.000;
and reduce outstanding ta.;
arrears, including disputed
payments.
Ill. EXPENDiTURE PRIORITZATIONt Improve efficiency of public investment program, strengthen project pipeline.
and provide adequate current funding for hiRh priority social services and O&M.
A. Annual Development
program
Medium-term framework      TYRIP for FY92-94 completed and         Preparation of TYRIP, including      Second and third  ' 0
for public investment      circulated to donor agencies for        ADP as its initial year, which       tranches.
program.                   couments.                               meets the following criterias (i)
realistic resource envelope                            0 0
consistent with macroeconomic                          ^ 0



POLICY  BIJECTIVES         RECENT  EEASURES TAREI                   FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT          TMuING
framework of PFP; (ii) adequate
allocations, including local
funds, for high priority
projects; and (iii) no more than
25 percent of available local
funds allocated to locally-
financed projects and block
grants (excluding block grants
for land acquisition and payment
of custom duties and VAT on
project-related imports).
Improve project                                                     Preparation of sectoral               Second and third
prioritization.                                                     investment review papers for at       tranches.
least three sectors during FY92
and FY93.
Identification of ten projects for      Carry-out restructuring of            Dated action plan
restructuring,                          identified projects.                  - second tranche.
Satisfactory
progress in
implementation -
third tranche.
PY91 pruning exercise reduced           Prepare report identifying            Second and third
allocations for locally-financed        projects for pruning,                 tranches.         0 n
projects and block grants by roughly   restructuring and/or increased
half.                                   allocations and implement
recommendations in the ADP.                             0 0
C



POLICY OBJECTIVES          RECENT MEASURES TARBN                   FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT          TDEINM
Introduction of improved             Second tranche.
monitoring system for high
priority projects.
Study initiated to identify short-      Tmplementation of                    Second tranche.
term improvements in monitoring ADP    recommendations.
expenditures.
B. Current Exzemditures
Adequate funding for       Measures taken to offset impact of       Provide real increases in funding   Second and third
high priority social       wage increases in FY92 budget.           for priority programs in primary    tranches.  Actual
services and operations                                            education, primary health and        expenditures
and maintenance.                                                   family planning programs, and for   during FY93 to be
non-wage expenditures for OW of   monitored as part
roads and flood control and          of third tranche.
irrigation infrastructure, based
on adequately documented and
monitorable budget submissions by
the sectoral agencies.
Improve expenditure                                                Review expenditure arrears and       Preparation of
control.                                                           limitations on independent           action plans -
cheque-writing authority of          second tranche.
government departments.              Completion of
implementation -
third tranche.
Establishment of Cell to monitor    Establish work
non-tax revenues, including fees    program - second
and charges.                         tranche. Fully    t
operational -       a
third tranche.     %
0a



POLICY ONJECTIVES          RECENT HEASURIS TAEN                    FURTHER ACSIONS UNDER CREDIT         SDK
IV. AID UTILIZATIONs Streamline procedures for utilization of donor resources.
Increase aid                (i) Procurements Preparation of        Issue guidelines and implement       Preparation of
disbursements.             revised guidelines for procurement      action plan.                         action plan -
of goods and works financed under                                            second tranche.
external aid.                                                                Satisfactory
implementation -
third tranche.
(ii) Recruitment of Consultants:       Issue guidelines and implement        Same as above.
Preparation of revised guidelines       action plan.
for selection of consultants.
{iii) Technical Assistance:            Monitor TA approvals to meet          Issue guidelines    "
Preparation of revised guidelines       performance standard and take        and establish
and agreement on performance            corrective actions, if needed.       monitoring system-
standard for approval process and                                            second tranche.
monitoring arrangements.                                                     Review performance
and make necess,ry
improvements -
third tranche.
(iv) Project Approvals: New            Revision of procedures based on       Second tranche.
procedures Introduced in PY91.          recent experience.
(v) Funding of Land Acquisition.       Introduce block allocation for        Second tranche.
land acquisition in FY93 ADP.
(vi) Project-Level Staffing.
Letter issued to ministries
instructing them to implement                       
recommendations of Public                        
Administration Efficiency Study.                                                                  Q.
Cvil) Special Accounts: Circular
issued establishing Convertible Taka
Special Accounts.



POLICY OBJECTIVES           RECENT MEASURES TAKEN                   FURTEER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT          TIMING
(viii) Commodity Aid: Circular          Review of ongoing and planned         Review aid
issued establishing market-based        commodity aid programs to             programs - second
allocation procedures for commodity    introduce market-based allocation   tranche.
aid, subject to approval of affected   procedures where feasible.             Introduce
donors.                                                                       procedures where
feasible - third
tranche.
V. INSTITUTIONAL STREKGTEENING, Improve institutional capacity for budRet management, planning and expenditure control.
Modernize budget and        Completion of CORBEC report             Commence program of TA (Phase Is    Initiate program -
accounting systems.         recommending comprehensive program      Design Study).                        second tranche.
to upgrade budget and accounting                                              Satisfactory
systems.                                                                      progress -
third tranche.
Strengthen investment      Approval of technical assistance         Commence TA program.                  Second tranche.
programming.                project to strengthen investment
programming.
Establish internal debt    Agreement with Bangladesh Shilpa         Consolidate and update debt           Satisfactory
management system in        Bank to improve internal debt           register and introduction of          progress - second
Ministry of Finance.        management.                             modern debt management system.        tranche.
System fully
operational -
third tranche.
Establish standard on-lending        Second tranche.
terms for government loans;
complete debt restructuring
exercise for selected agencies;
and require that debt-service                              . D
payments be made on a cash basis,                         c
without using ADP allocations to                          0
cover such obligation.                                  X



- 54 -
Page I of 2
THE STAPJS OF SAW  R   OfPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
A. STAnME    OF sANK LOAN ANS IDA CR51S5
(As of Decembr 81, 11)
Amont in US l Illi on
(les cancellations)
Credit No.         Y    Borrower                  Purpos                  Bank        IDA   Undilbursed
2 Loan and 120 creiit  havy been  fully disburse                          50.9    3030.5
of which 11 SECAL, SAL. and Progrm Creits )
Cr. 124740      1962    Bangladeh   Chittagong Port                                 46.7           80.2
Cr. 1440-40     1984    Bangiadech   Technical Assisrtnc  V                         26.0           10.6
Cr. 14S54BD     1984    Bangladesh   Agricultural Research II                       17.2            5.9
Cr. 1467-0      164    Bangladeeh   836 Small Schema.                              41.6           27.0
Cr. 1490-80     1904    Banglaedsh   Technical Education                            81.6            7.0
Cr. 1574-40     1986    Bbagladesh   Primary Education II                           76.0           10.0
Cr. 156640      1905    Bangladeoh    Second G  Development                        110.0           56.7
Cr. 16914-0     106     Bangladesh    Flood Control A Draina" III                   49.0           32.8
Cr. 1J88-0      1066    Bangladesh   Rural Electrification It                       79.0           50.9
Cr. 1684-4      19SO    Bangldesh    Foroetry It                                    23.9           10.4
Cr. 1640-40     1966    Bangladesh   Power Transmission & Dist                      56.0           16.7
Cr. 1649-40     10o      Bangladesh   Population III                                76.0           15.9
Cr. 1651-40     1908    Bangladesh   Shrimp Culture                                 22.0           14.9
Cr. 1734-40     107     Bangladesh   Dhaka WASA III                                 30.0           14.7
Cr. 1749-40     1987    Bangladesh   Refinery Modification A LPG                    47.0           81.8
Cr. 1764-4      1907    Bangladesh   Flood Control A Drainage IV                    20.0           16.7
Cr. 1627-0      1987    Bangladesh   Road Rehab A Maintnance                       102.0           72.1
Cr. 1670-40     196     Bangladesh   Sm Sc FCD A Irrigation II                      61.5           86.9
Cr. 193040      1966    Bangladesh   Urban Developmet I                             47.0           40.1
Cr. 194040      1980     Bangladesh    Rural Roads & Markes                         62.8           48.1
Cr. 1942-4      1996    Bangladesh   Industrial Enetgy Efflciecy                    11.4           11.9
Cr. 20G0-00     1969    Bangladeh   Export Devlopomnt                               26.0           28.7
Cr. 21O-BD      19t9    Bangildesh   Power Dietribution (16 Townsl)                 9.0            76.5
Cr. 204040      1969    Bongladesh    Flood Rehabilitation III                     188.0           66.8
Ct. 2099-40     1990    Bangladesh    OM96 System Rhab                              5.9            54.0
Cr. 211640      1906    Bangladesh    Generl Education                             169.8          158.0
Cr. 2129-4      1990    Bangladesh   Rural Electrification III                     106.0          118.6
Cr. 214J-8      1o99    Bangladeh   Fisherie  III                                   44.0           40.?
eCr. 2152-4      1990    Bangladesh   Financial Sector Adjust. Credit               175.0          106.4
oCr. 2152-0      1991    Bangladesh   Financial Sector Ad ust. Credit                 8.6            0.2
Cr. 2280-O      1091    Bangladsh   Inland Water Transport                          45.0           44.8
Cr. 2288-0      19      Bangladesh   Aerie. Support Services                        85.0           84.9
Cr. 22460-D     1961    Banoladesh    National Minor Irrigation                     54.0           54.5
Cr. 226534      1991    Bengladesh   Shallow Tubw  lls                             76.0           74.0
Cr. 2259-60 b>  1991    Banglaedsh   Population and Health IV                      160.0          190.5
Cr. 226840 b) 1991    Bangladesh   LPG Distribution                                 07.2           71.2
Total                                                    66.9    6588.4 c>       1669.2 c>
of which has ben repsid                                14.1       78.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                           42.0     6264.0
Amount sold       0.4
Of which repeid   0.4             Total Undisbured                               1089.2
a) Approved durln or after FY60.
b) Not yet effect ye.
c> The prinelpc l amount of IDA erdits are shown in US Dollar equivlent at date of negotiations,
as shown In the Presidents Report.  Undiebursed amounts shon in US Dollar equivalent are valud
at the exchang  rats applicable on the date of this statement.  In some Coae   therefore  the
undisbWred blance indicates a dollar mount Greater than the original principal credit
_aont expressed In dollars.
o SAL, SECAL or Program Loan.



-55-
STA T  OF ILC ISMNT
(As f orD_mr Ut, 13iN)I
Rmvotmet Fisall                                    Typ of                Loon    Equit    Totl
Numer      tear            Obigoor                                            CtsS i (l ml11tn) I
in        sn1    KenefulI Paper #IIt. Ltd.    Pulp end Paper            6.00    O."       0."
4"         1979    Hihspee  Shipbuildin, and
Heavy Enginerwing Co. Ltd.   Shipboilding            1.20    0.80      1.56
0          160    Indutrial PrmotIon and
04.lspment Comany of
flegIadeh, Ltd.              DFC                     0.00    1.06      1.06
?86        15      Industeial De.lopment
Leasing Comptny of           Mony and Capital
Daglades                     Markets                 8.02    0.15      8.17
767/       196/   sets Shoe Comny
a67        s        (Sengledebh) Ltd.            Shoe                   4.46    1.02      5.46
1io1    DYIL                          Text la.               4.50    0.00      4.50
Total  Cres Comitente                                         18.78    8.22    22.00
Loe camel lotion, taraton,lo--,
rpayment and sals                                            18.69    1.51    15.10
Total Commitments now  ld by IFC a)                           5.19    1.71      6.90
."LiuaniW' ort@n}                                                               8.07
e)    Includes traneactios of Capital Market. eprtmet and Enfry Unitt.
b)    Exha n  adju*tmt accoont for variation In total groes commitment, los coel lotion.,
de., and total commitmenta  oo hold by IC.



- 56 -
Schedule E
Page 1 of 11
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Md. Saifur Rahman                                 Dhaka
Minister of Finance
No. HFIFD/Budget-7/Misc-16191-921648              Dates 30th March 1992
Dear Mr. Prestons
Subject: Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit
Statement of Development Policy
1.    The Government of Bangladesh is committed to achieving rapid growth in
the living standards of our people through the development of a market-
oriented economy within a democratic political system. Since the present
Government came to power through fair and open elections that were held in
February 1991, Bangladesh has suffered an extraordinary series of adverse
shocks, including the aftermath of the Gulf crisis (which resulted in the
return of almost 70,000 Bangladeshi workers from the Gulf region and the loss
of exports to Iraq and Kuwait); the devastating cyclone of April 29, 1991 that
killed an estimated 139,000 people and severely damaged our second largest
city and principal port, Chittagong; heavy flooding in northwestern Bangladesh
in August-September, 1991; and a recent large influx of refugees along our
southern border in an area of the country still struggling to recover from the
cyclone. Despite these events and the disruptions resulting from an extended
period of constitutional reform that ended in a restoration of parliamentary
government in October 1991, the Government has remained firmly committed to
sound economic management, as demonstrated by the successful completion of the
first year ESAP program in June 1991 and the recent finding by an IMF mid-term
review mission that the second-year ESAF program is basically on track.
2.   While we have succeeded in maintaining financial stability, we are
convinced that further actions are needed to restore rapid and sustainable
growth. One of our immediate priorities is to reverse the sharp decline in
public savings and investment that took place over the past decade, which has
been reflected in unsatisfactory utilization of external aid. Over the past
year, we have worked closely with the staff of IDA and the DMF to develop a
comprehensive program of fiscal reforms to address this situation. Some of
the most important elements of the reform program were implemented in the
1991/92 budget, including the introduction of a value-added tax (VAT) and
prioritization of the public investment program in the context of a three-year
rolling investment program (TYRIP). Since the announcement of the budget, we
have continued to implement this reform program, including recent progress in



- 57 -
Schedule E
Page 2 of 11
preparing clear and comprehensive guidelines to streamline foreign aid
utilization procedures. It is the intention of the Government to continue
building on this foundation to develop a fiscal system that is fully capable
of responding to the needs of the country by channeling resources to our
highest priority development programs, especially those in the area of human
resource development, reduce economic distortions, and ensure that due regard
for economy and efficiency in the use of scarce public resources is strictly
enforced. While we believe that this effort will yield substantial benefits
in terms of ensuring long-term growth, we recognize that there will be short-
term costs of adjustment that must be considered in determining the pace and
sequencing of the reform program. We invite IDA, as well as other concerned
development partners, to assist us in maintaining the pace of the reform
program described below by providing additional balance-of-payments support to
help mitigate the costs arising from the adjustment process.
Macroeconomic Framework
3.    I would first like to discuss the macroeconomic framework for the
adjustment program. The Government's objectives for the period 1990191 -
1992/93 are summarized in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) prepared in
cooperation with IDA and the IMF in June, 1990, which provided the basis for
agreement with the nMP on a three-year ESAF program. The objectives of the
three-year program of structural and financial adjustment outlined in the PFP
are to sustain an average annual real GDP growth rate of about 5 percent and
reduce the annual rate of inflation to 5 112 percent by the final year of the
program, while making progress toward balance-of-payments viability and
poverty alleviation. The program also aims to achieve substantially higher
and more efficient investment, financed largely through increased domestic
savings and improved utilization of external project aid; hold the budgetary
deficit below 7 percent of GDP (excluding grants); contain the external
current account deficit to about 6 percent of GDP; maintain a flexible
exchange rate policy aimed at ensuring external competitiveness; and restore
gross official reserves to the equivalent of about 2 1/2 months of imports by
1992/93. This policy framework was updated in the revised PFP for 1991/92 -
1993/94 that accompanied the second year ESAF program approved in September
1991. As I mentioned above, performance in achieving the targets contained in
the ESAF program has been basically sound, despite the severe shocks to the
economy during the past year, and we have exceeded the targets in several
areas (for example, the rate of inflation fell to less than 5 percent on an
annualized basis during the first six months of 1991192, and foreign exchange
reserves rose to $1.3 billion by end-December 1991, equivalent to 4 months of
projected import requirements). We plan to continue updating our
macroeconomic program on an annual basis in close consultation with the staff
of IDA and the IMF, which will provide the framework for the third year of the
ESAF program in 1992/93 as well as the policy measures to be introduced as
part of the Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit.
4.    Fiscal Targets.  In order to bring about a substantial increase in
investment and savings as called for in the PFP, we believe that sound fiscal
management and structural reform of the public revenue and expenditure systems



- 58 -
Schedule E
Page 3 of 11
are essential to achieve our objectives. The decline in investment during the
19809 was led by a stagnation of development expenditures through the Annual
Development Program (ADP), which can be attributed to slow growth of revenues,
a rapid increase in current expenditures (often for low priority purposes),
and a lack of clear priorities in the allocation of funds within the ADP, with
a large share of the available local funding going to support projects and
block grants that relied wholly on local resources, thereby constraining the
implementation of aided projects through a lack of matching counterpart funds.
In order to rectify this situation, we established targets for the budget
during 1990191 and 1991/92 aiming for an annual increase in revenues by at
least 0.5 percent of GDP, a rate of growth of current expenditures no higher
than the projected rate of growth of nominal GDP, and an increase in the ADP
that is consistent with the above targets. During 1990/91, the budget was
basically on track to achieve these targets, except for the impact of the
cyclone in the final two months of the fiscal year, which depressed revenue
collections and required an increase in emergency relief expenditures. For
the first six months of 1991/92, revenue performance has exceeded the mid-year
target by Tk 0.7 billion, due in large part to good collections from the VAT;
and strict budgetary control has kept the level of current expenditures in
line with the original program estimate. With a view to offsetting the effect
of pay increases for civil servants granted subsequent to the 1991/92 budget,
the Government introduced revenue and expenditure measures to fully cover the
additional cost of the pay increases during the current fiscal year. These
actions have resulted in a significant increase in the amount of locally-
generated resources available for the ADP. However, because of uncertainties
related to the introduction of new procedures the various departments and
agencies responsible for executing the ADP have not moved in a vigorous
fashion to implement development projects, and the rate of disbursements for
the ADP during the first six months of the fiscal year fell well below the
pace experienced last year. Given the gravity of the problem, the Prime
Minister has taken a personal interest in ensuring that the original target
for the ADP is fully achieved. As a result, a clear improvement in the
realization of the ADP is now being observed. In order to continue the
improvement in the fiscal situation during the next two years, we plan to
ensure that the budgets for 1992/93 and 1993/94 meet the same targets for
revenues, current expenditures and the ADP as described above; and we will
closely monitor the actual level of revenues and expenditures during the
fiscal year and take additional measures if needed to ensure that these
targets are in fact achieved.
Tax Reform
5.    Our experience during the 1980s demonstrated that the tax structure
prevailing at that time suffered from low revenue elasticity, a high degree of
economic distortions, and excessive reliance on annual discretionary increases
in taxes to maintain revenue growth. We have therefore prepared a program of
structural reforms for the tax system which is broadly consistent with the
recommendations in IDA's recent report, "Bangladesh: An Agenda for Tax
Reform.'



- 59 -
Schedule E
Page 4 of 11
6.    Value-Added Tax.  The cornerstone of the tax reform effort is the
introduction of the value-added tax (VAT) in the 1991/92 budget to replace the
system of differentiated sales taxes on imports and selective excise taxes on
domestic goods. The VAT has been levied at a uniform rate of 15 percent at
the manufacturer-cum-import level, together with the imposition of trade-
neutral supplementary excise duties on goods for which additional revenue
potential exists. Despite intense opposition to the introduction of the VAT,
we have maintained our commitment to tax reform and we intend to continue
broadening the tax base and improving tax administration so that the VAT
provides our major source of revenues in the future. In line with this
policy, we have identified a number of actions to broaden the VAT over the
next two fiscal years. In order to expand the tax base, we intend to make
contractual processing services subject to the VAT as of July 1992, and we
plan to limit the VAT exemption for small and cottage industries so that it
applies only to enterprises with annual turnover below the threshold for the
turnover tax. With the assistance of IDA, we are currently reviewing
alternative taxation regimes for yarn and textiles and we intend to introduce
appropriate taxation on yarn and textiles by July 1993 based on the results of
the study. Over the next two fiscal years, we intend to include within the
VAT all remaining goods currently subject to excise tax, beginning with
natural gas and cigarettes by July 1992 and all remaining goods by July 1993.
In order to expand the number of traders registered for the VAT, we are
currently reviewing the administrative feasibility of registering, inter alia,
all commercial importers and exporters and wholesalers serving manufacturers,
and we intend to set targets to expand the VAT register in these areas during
1992/93. Finally, in order to prevent the erosion of the tax base, we have
decided not to allow any further exemptions of a substantive nature to the VAT
during the next two fiscal years.
7.    In order to strengthen VAT administration, we have prepared a timebound
action plan for the remainder of 1991/92, including specific measures to
expand the number of registered traders and verify the accuracy of the VAT
register, increase the rate of submission of monthly VAT returns to at least
80 percent of registered traders (as compared to 60 percent at present),
improve internal documentation of VAT administration, expand management
training programs, and improve computer cell integration between the National
Board of Revenue and the field level collectorates. A similar action plan
with timebound targets will be prepared for implementation during 1992/93.
8.    Direct Taxes.  Complementary to the VAT, we intend to strengthen the
system of direct taxation to improve revenue elasticity and provide a larger
degree of progressivity in the tax structure. We have already taken a number
of measures in the past two budgets, including the introduction of withholding
taxes on interest (1990/91) and dividends (1991/92), withdrawal of tax
exemptions for capital gains on assets subject to the personal investment
allowance (1990/91), reduction of the ceiling for the personal investment
allowance to Tk 100,000 (1991/92), and limitation of the time period for
granting company tax holidays to 1995 (1991/92). By July 1992 we plan to
replace the current filing threshold for the i rsonal income tax with a
conventional exemption limit (by July 1993), replace the personal investment



- 60 -
Schedule E
Page 5 of 11
allowance with an investment tax credit and initiate a study on alternative
methods of providing tax incentives for companies to replace current tax
holidays. A dated action plan to implement the agreed recommendations of the
study will be adopted. These actions will be accompanied by adequate
compensating measures to ensure that the package of direct tax reforms
introduced in each year is at least revenue neutral.
9.    The structural reforms in the direct tax system need to be accompanied
by improvements in direct tax administration in order to fully achieve our
goal of improving equity and efficiency in revenue collections. Authorization
was recen:ly obtained for the creation of more than 1000 new posts in the
direct tax wing, to be spread over a period of three years (filled by a
combination of staff rotation and new hires), which will permit the
establishment of almost 100 new tax offices. At the same time, it is
important for staff to be used more effectively by redeploying existing and
additional manpower into priority areas. With this objective in mind, the
coverage of the self-assessment scheme for the personal income tax will be
expanded in 1992/93 to include the majority of assessees with income of eighty
thousand takas or below. Targets have been established for increasing the
number of registered taxpayers, including increasing the proportion of
assesses with income above eighty thousand takas, and reducing outstanding
tax arrears.
Expenditure Prioritization
10.   While improvements in revenue collection are an essential part of our
structural adjustment program, it is equally important that the resources
obtained in this manner should be used to support high priority development
projects and essential public services in an efficient and cost-effective
manner. We recognize that many international and bilateral development
partners have contributed generously to support development activities in
Bangladesh, and the Government is committed to ensuring that the use of both
foreign and domestic -esuurces meets the same high standards of prudency and
economy in addressing the national development priorities established by the
Government.  In this regard, we have outlined a broad strategic framework to
guide the allocation of public resources in our recent Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (FFYP). The FFYP establishes our principal objectives as
rapid growth in national income, alleviation of poverty and generation of
employment opportunities through human resource development, and increased
self-reliance by generating greater domestic resources to support our
development effort and by establishing a clear definition of priorities in the
use of such resources. In line with these objectives, the Government has
given high priority to the expansion of primary education and primary health
and family planning services, which are being supported by the development
partners through the General Education project and the Fourth Population and
Health project. We are also committed to the expansion and improvement of
basic infrastructure in flood control and irrigation (including cyclone
protection), power, natural gas, transportation, communications, and
improvement of rural and urban services such as water supply, sanitation, and
feeder roads. We have identified the Jamuna multip-rpose bridge and



- 61 -
Schedule E
Page 6 of 11
implementation of the Flood Action Plan as the highest priority projects
within these sectors during the next five years. We consider that the private
sector has primary responsibility for expanding productive activities in the
agricultural and industrial sectors, and we will provide essential services
where needed (such as agricultural extension and research) to support private
sector development. We intend to continue expanding targeted programs to
achieve important social objectives, such as integrating women into the
development process and reaching those sections of the population (especially
women and children) who are most at risk from extreme poverty.
11.   Investment Program.  During the preparation of the PPYP, it became
evident that in the past the ADP was substantially over committed and that the
Government was trying to complete more projects than could be supported by the
available financial and physical resources, with the result that the
implementation performance of the portfolio was generally unsatisfactory. In
order to address this situation, the Government initiated a project pruning
exercise that resulted, inter alia, in a sharp reduction in the amount of
funds allocated to locally-financed projects and block grants from 50 percent
of available local resources in the 1989190 ADP to 27 percent in the 1991/92
ADP. In addition, potential cost-savings in ongoing projects amounting to
roughly 20 percent of projected costs were identified by dropping lower
priority projects, reducing unit costs, and pruning project components that
were not considered to be of high priority. The Government also undertook the
preparation of a three-year rolling investment program (TYRIP) in order to
integrate the funding requirements for ongoing projects with the resources
needed for potential new projects within a consistent macroeconomic framework
based on the PFP. The TYRIP has been revised and updated several times over
the past year, and the Government presented the TYRIP for 1991/92 - 1993/94 to
the development partners in November 1991 and requested written comments to be
used in revising and updating the TYRIP during the preparation of the 1992193
budget. The TYRIP is generally regarded as providing a useful framework for
prioritizing the public investment program, and we intend to continue updating
and revising the TYRIP on an annual basis, including revisions during the mid-
year annual budget review. At the same time, we consider that it is important
to establish guidelines for the preparation of the TYRIP, which will include
the following criteria: (i) the projected resource envelope should be
consistent with the macroeconomic framework in the PFP; (ii) adequate
allocations, including sufficient local funds, should be provided for high
priority projects identified by the Government; and (iii) the amount of
funding provided for locally-financed projects and block grants (not including
the block grants for land acquisition and payment of customs duties and value-
added tax on project-related imports) should not exceed 25 percent of the
local funds available for the ADP in any given year. During the fiscal year,
we will reallocate local resources, if needed, to aided projects that are
capable of absorbing such resources in an efficient manner, and we will not
increase the overall allocation of funding for locally-financed projects and
block grants unless it can be satisfactorily demonstrated that such resources
cannot be utilized in other higher priority aided projects.



- 62 -
Schedule E
Page 7 of 11
12.   In order for the TYRIP to be an effective instrument for prioritizing
the investment program (rather than just an exercise in financial
programming). we intend to initiate a number of actions to strengthen the role
of the Planning Commission in macro-level management of the investment
program, as well as assisting the sector ministries and agencies to formulate
their investment requirements within a more realistic framework. As part of
this process, we intend to initiate the preparation of sectoral investment
review papers for the purpose of reviewing the implementation performance of
ongoing projects and strengthening the pipeline of priority projects in each
sector. Prior to the 1992/93 budget, we plan to complete such papers for
fisheries, natural gas and health, which will be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and approved by ECNEC as the basis for restructuring the project
pipeline over the medium term. Based on the experience gained during the
preparation of the initial papers, we intend to prepare at least three
additional sectoral investment review papers during 1992193, addressing
somewhat more difficult sectors such as crop agriculture.
13.   A second exercise that we have initiated is to reexamine several large
ongoing projects with a view to improving their economic and/or financial
viability and their implementation performance, including the possibility of
continuing the projects on a revised basis or terminating them if justified.
We have selected ten projects in the current ADP for restructuring, including
the Teesta Barrage, Seed Development Project, and Barind Integrated Area
Development Project. We are preparing a timebound action plan to review the
ten projects and develop specific restructuring plans, and we intend to
complete the process of restructuring the projects prior to the 1993194
budget.
14.   Other actions to improve the quality of the investment portfolio over
the next two fiscal years include the following measures. We intend to
prepare a project pruning report as an input to the preparation of the AD?
(including the mid-year budget review). The first such report, which was
completed in February 1992, recommended reduced allocations for 162 projects
(of which 46 projects would be dropped entirely from the FY93 ADP), while 82
projects were identified for increased allocations of local funds to support
prompt implementation. In addition, we have developed a system to improve the
monitoring of high priority projects, including the introduction of a monthly
action-oriented reporting format and quarterly inspections by IMED for
identified high priority projects. Forty projects have been selected to
initiate this system, and the monthly monitoring procedure was started on a
trial basis in March, 1992, with full implementation to begin with the 1992193
budget. Finally, we are currently implementing a study with IDA assistance to
identify short-term improvements in monitoring the actual level of
expenditures through the ADP, and we plan to implement the recommendations of
this study with the 1992/93 budget.
15. Current Expenditures. Our ability to increase public investment will
be, to a significant extent, determined by our success in controlling the
growth of current expenditures. As mentioned above, we have been quite
successful in our efforts to limit the growth of current expenditures during



- 63 -
Schedule E
Page 8 of 11
the past two years, and we will take steps to ensure that the rate of growth
of current expenditures does not exceed the rate of growth of nominal GDP
during the next two fiscal years. As the recent increases in public sector
wages demonstrate, however, there are very strong political pressures from
special interest groups to provide increases in current expenditures. We have
been exploring alternative approaches to achieve further cost savings,
including reducing the cash deficit for foodgrain operations, reductions in
subsidies (backed-up by compensating measures to ensure that reduced subsidies
are not passed through as losses to the financial sector), reduction in losses
by public enterprises and revenue-earning government departments, and
reductions in staffing where the number of employees exceeds the level
required to maintain essential services. We expect that changes in the actual
pattern of current expenditures on a year-to-year basis will be consistent
with these approaches.
16.   While we will continue to explore opportunities for reducing current
expenditures, we are not in a position to identify specific cost saving
measures prior to the presentation of the budget in each fiscal year.
However, the Government is committed to making increased funding available for
high priority social services and operations and maintenance within the
overall limits on current expenditures specified above. We expect that the
requirements for current funding of primary education, primary health and
family planning activities will increase rapidly over the next five years as a
result of the expansion of these sectors being supported by the General
Education project and the Fourth Population and Health project. Moreover, we
recognize that improvements in maintenance activities are essential for the
prompt implementation of the Flood Action Plan and the Jamuna multipurpose
bridge, to which we give high priority. For this reason, we intend to give
high priority during the preparation of the budget to providir.g real increases
in funding for current expenditures relating to priority programs in primary
education, primary health and family planning and in non-wage expenditures for
road maintenance and O&M for flood control and irrigation infrastructure,
based on adequately documented and monitorable budget submissions from the
sectoral departments and agencies. We have initiated a series of meetings
with the relevant ministries to encourage them to submit realistic proposals
for increases in current expenditures in the 1992/93 budget.
17. As part of our efforts to control current expenditures, we have
identified various problems in the financial rules and regulations which allow
government departments and agencies to accumulate payment arrears. In
addition, selected departments with independent cheque-writing authority have
been able to run-up large cost overruns in previous fiscal years,
substantially in excess of the amounts provided in the budget. We have asked
the Office of the Comptroller and Auditor General to review both of these
situations and to prepare recommendations for correcting such abuses, which we
intend to implement during 1992193. We have recently created a Cell in the
Finance Division to review, inter alia, non-tax revenue collections, including
the level of fees and charges under the authority of the Finance Division. We
intend to establish a work program for this Cell by early 1992/93 and take
steps to ensure that it is fully operational by the end of the 1992193 fiscal
year.



- 64 -
Schedule E
Page 9 of 11
Aid Utillzation
18.   The Government is committed to making major improvements in aid
utilization performance, which we expect to be an increasingly important
indicator for development partners in determining their annual level of aid
commitments. We have already taken some essential steps in this direction by
prioritizing the public expenditure program and placing strict limits on the
growth of current expenditures, actions which have helped to substantially
reduce problems of inadequate budgetary allocations for priority projects in
the 1991192 ADP. Nevertheless, macroeconomic policies alone will not be
sufficient to improve implementation performance. We plan to take a variety
of actions to address problems that have been identified as affecting project
implementation across the portfolio; additional actions will be taken at the
sector and agency level to address implementation problems specific to
particular investment projects. At the level of generic implementation
problems, we have identified the follwing areas to be addressed on a priority
basis:
(i) Procurement. We have prepared revised guidelines for procurement
of goods and works involving external aid, which are being reviewed with
various development partners before being issued prior to the 1992/93
budget. Realistic performance standards have been established for each
stage in the approval process, and greater financial authority is being
delegated at every level. We are in the process of preparing an action
plan for implementing the guidelines that will cover, inter alia,
training, procurement planning, preparalion of standard bidding
documents, and monitoring of procurement decisions.
(ii) Recruitment of Consultants. We are in the process of revising the
guidelines for recruitment of consultants in a similar manner as the
guidelines for procurement of goods and works.
(iii) Technical Assistance Approval Procedures. We have prepared new
guidelines for the approval of technical assistance, which establish -,
performance standard of three months as the maximum time period between
the submission of a proposal by the implementing agency and, in case of
approval, signature of the final financing agreement with the
development partner. We intend to monitor the TA approval process
carefully and take corrective actions, if needed, to ensure that the
approval process achieves this performance standard on a consistent
basis.
(iv) Project Approval Procedures. We revised the procedures for
project approval during 1990191 to delegate greater responsibility to
the sectoral _inistries for the preparation and review of project
proposals. While we believe that the new procedures are basically in
the right direction, we experienced problems during the past year that
led to a large backlog of unapproved project proposals, which
contributed to the slow implementation performance of the ADP during the
first six months of 1991192. We intend to issue revisions to the
project approval procedures prior to the 1992193 budget to further
streamline the process in order to achieve the target deadlines for
project approval outlined in the 1990/91 guidelines.
(v) Funding of Land Acquisition. We intend to establish a block
allocation in the 1992193 ADP to provide supplemental financing for land



- 65 -                       Schedule E
Page 10 of 11
acquisition for projects where the allocation in the ADP is not
sufficient to cover the cost of land acquisition and the legal procedure
for acquiring land have been fully completed.
(vi) Project-level Staffing. The Minister of Planning has written a
letter to all ministries informing them that the appointment of project
directors and key project staff should be completed promptly, that staff
should remain with a project throughout its execution, and that the
practice of appointing part-time project directors in charge of multiple
projects should be discontinued, except for relatively minor projects.
(vii) Special Accounts. We have authorized executing agencies to open
interest-bearing convertible taka special accounts (CONTASA) in
commercial banks to finance project-related expenditures.
(viii) Commodity Aid. In line with our liberalization of access to
foreign exchange over the past five years, we intend to make all
commodity aid, including tied aid, available to eligible importers on a
first-come, first-served basis through any authorized dealer in foreign
exchange, unless the relevant development partner specifically requires
direct allocations to importers. We plan to review all ongoing and
planned coimnodity aid programs prior to the 1992/93 budget to identify
those for which market-based allocation procedures can be introduced,
and we intend to complete the transition to market-based allocation
procedures where feasible by the time of the 1993194 budget.
Tnstitutional Strengthening
19.   Complementary to the program of structural reforms outlined above, we
intend to take the following actions to strengthen the capacity of agencies
involved in the budget process to provide sound financial management.
(i) Budget and Accountina Reform. The Government recently received the
report of the Committee on Reforms in Budgeting and Expenditure Control
(CORBEC), which recommended a comprehensive program to upgrade the
structure of budget and accounts over a period of several years,
including the introduction of computerization as an integral part of the
accounting process. We entdorse the findings of the CORBEC committee,
and we have prepared terms of reference for a Phase Is Design Study,
which, inter alia, would prepare a revised classification system for
budget and accomnts (including provision for the introduction of
computertization), develop outline training programs for senior officials
and staff involved in the implementation of the new system (with
emphasis on on-the-job training and short courses conducted on-site),
and develop a detailed action program for the phased implementation of
the recommendations over a period of 4-5 years. We expect to initiate
the Phase I study prior to the 1992/93 budget, and based on this study,
to develop terms of reference for the Phase IIs Implementation Program
prior to the 1993/94 budget.
(ii) Strengthening of Investment ProgrammLng. We have prepared a
program of technical assistance, which is being funded by UNDP, to
strengthen the capacity of the Planning Commission to carry-out macro-
level investment programming in the context of the TYRIP and to
coordinate the preparation of sectoral investment strategies. Training
will be provided to the Programming Division and the sector divisions of



- 66 -
Schedule E
Page 11 of 11
the Planning Commission, as well as to planning cells in two sectoral
ministries on a trial basis. We expect to initiate this activity by the
time of the 1992/93 budget.
(iii) Internal Debt Management and Reporting. We recently engaged
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank to consolidate and update the internal debt
register for government loans to autonomous and semi-autonomous public
sector agencies and Bangladesh Railways and the Bangladesh Telephone and
Telegraph Board, and to introduce a modern debt management system in the
Ministry of Finance. Prior to the 1992193 budget, we intend to
establish a revised schedule of payments for a selected group of
agencies with outstanding debt-service obligations for subsidiary loan
agreements with major development partners, including IDA. Starting in
1992/93, we intend to establish standard on-lending terms for government
loans similar to the terms provided by financial institutions, and we
intend to require that all internal debt-service obligations should be
paid on a cash basis and that agencies should not be permitted to use
ADP allocations to cover such obligations.
Conclusion
20.   The program of structural reforms outlined above would affect almost
every aspect of our fiscal system, and as such, we have decided to allow a
period of three years for the full implementation of the reform program. In
view of the strong commitment already demonstrated by the Government in
implementing the initial phase of the reforms in the 1991/92 budget, and given
the close involvement of IDA in the preparation of the reform program, the
Government requests the approval of the Public Resource Management Adjustment
Credit in the amount of $150 million to assist in the continued implementation
of the reforms.
Yours sincerely,
(Md. Saifur Rahman) =
Minister of Finance
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington DC, 20433
USA
a The original of this letter was submitted to the World Bank Resident
Mission in BanRladesh.



:0-.s,>'>  INDIA     BANGLADESH
Upovila Headquarters  Upaszila Boundaries
* /ila Headquwrters  Zila Boundaries
264'                                  DMsi  Headquarter  Division Boundaries
5           \7r"  ~~~~~~~~~~~0%  S ~~~~~National capital  Intmrational Boundaries
,   ,   9~irt.fs.. -  *  .4 ,   _ /.
24  4                                                          24'e-ht    +
W~~ K..   25;.t'
w;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  41u'-qv,, 
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K1
"  2:                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N D I A
INDIA<                   ,
.2? 
I0 N c  - ; . - f  I ,                 / t               \   s
_~~~~~~~~~ a,    ,O O 320 MILE  ,MYeAN
trJF<_C~~~~21 |O   4b  iO  iD KIQETR                       2   1f ;;
B9   i                              ,  \  E   l tl_Y,, 92
2?lNAXEIi Coa-O' hoa,o-.uiaa 
a' - Ott a' '.ffe4  tO   )~~U-                 f
pet~~, o,0   20 ta' Bat  SOMI a'MY N A
86~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 1229             91-           92 111



