Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16667
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2361 BD)
June 9, 1997
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   BangladeshTaka (Tk.)
May 1986 US$ 1.0         =      Tk. 30.03
August 1996 US$ 1.0      =      Tk. 42.15
April 1997 US$ 1.0       =      Tk. 43.65
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ESAF        Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ERD         Economic Relations Division
VAT         Value added tax
SOE         State-Owned Enterprise
RIBEC       Reform in Budgeting and Expenditure Control
GOB         Government of Bangladesh
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
IMED        Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Division
DSL         Debt service liability
TYRIP       Three-Year Rolling Investment Program
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director:    Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division Chief     Lorene Yap
Task Manager:    N. Ramachandran



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2361 BD)
Table of Contents
Pa2e No.
Preface ......................................    i
Evaluation Sumnmary ......................................                                               11
Part 1:      Program  Implementation Assessment
A. Background .................................. .   .    .       ..      .    .    .    .    .1
B. Bangladesh's Performance and Strategies in
the period preceding the PRMAC ..................................                          1
C.  What were the PRMAC objectives? .................................2
D. How demanding and complex was the project to the Borrower? .................................2
E.  IDA's Adjustment and Investment Strategy for Bangladesh .......................................3
F. PRMAC and IMF Co-ordination .................................................4
G. Achievement of Objectives .........4.......................................4
H. Bank's Performance .................................................7
I.  Borrower's Performance ........8........................................8
J.  Assessment of Outcome, Sustainability, and Lessons Learned    ...................................9
K. Key Lessons Learned ................................................ 10
Part II   Statistical Tables
Appendices
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2361-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Resource
Management Adjustment Credit in Bangladesh, for which Credit 2361 -BD in the amount
of SDR 109.3 million (US$150 million equivalent) was approved on May 5, 1992 and
made effective on June 8, 1992 (original date May 31, 1992).
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996 (original date June 30, 1994). The
first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by January 1994. The
second tranche was released in December 1993, and fully disbursed by February 1994.
The balance SDR 36.9 million remaining on the third tranche was canceled on December
31, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Nadaraja Ramachandran, Country Operations Division,
Country Department I of South Asia, and reviewed by Lorene Yap (Division Chief),
Pierre Landell-Mills (Chief of Resident Mission, Dhaka), and by Fakhruddin Ahmed
(Acting Director). The Borrower provided comments that are included as Appendix to
the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during a mission in November/December 1996.
The Borrower contributed to its preparation by assisting the work of the ICR mission, by
providing comments on the draft Aide-Memoire and draft ICR, and by preparing its own
evaluation of the Credit.



I



-jj_
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2361 BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Credit Objectives
Growth and performance trended downwards in Bangladesh from FY87 following
record floods and decline in macroeconomic management. To arrest the deterioration the
Government accepted an IMF ESAF program in August 1990 and IDA support in
establishing targets for structural reform. IDA's Public Resource Management
Adjustment Credit (PRMAC) was approved in May 1992. The Credit was to disburse in
three equal tranches, totaling SDR 109.3 million (US$150 million equivalent). The
PRMAC was aimed at supporting the Government's program as set out in the PFP under
the ESAF arrangement. PRMAC'S objectives were broadly four-fold, and appropriately
focused on the key fiscal policy and institutional arrangements: improving macroeconomic
management and raising public savings and investment, tax reform, expenditure
prioritization and institutional strengthening.
Implementation Experience and Achievement of Objectives
Tackling the wide-ranging aspects of public resource management in Bangladesh in
a single 2-3 year operation was clearly a challenging task. Making it more arduous was
the multiplicity of conditions on which the program was based. The second tranche
release, for instance, was made contingent on fulfilling 38 specific conditions. The third
tranche release was linked to 25 conditions, though many of these were a continuation of
actions under the second tranche. Presumably, the multiplicity of conditions was intended
to delineate the path the Borrower had to follow, so as to maximize the effect of the
Credit. But as the President's memo noted in explaining the delay in second tranche
release: "Delays occurred because the process was over-designed relative to GOB's
institutional capacity". The Borrower completed the second tranche, though with a
year's delay and with four waivers of tranche release conditions. With the Credit
extending into a fourth and fifth year, political commitment dwindled to carry through
with the reforms in the midst of political strife and upcoming elections. Too, the new
Government which took office in June 1996 could not deliver on the few remaining sticky
conditions, and thus release of the third tranche did not prove feasible.
The PRMAC was initially intended to cover the period FY92-94, but was later
extended to end-December 1996. PRMAC's overarching objective of improving
macroeconomic management and improved revenue mobilization was achieved in the first
three years of the program (FY92-94) and the first and second tranches were released.
But performance was mixed in the last 2 1/2 years. The unfavorable developments in



FY95 and FY96 were linked to the prolonged period of political unrest and disturbances
and the run up to the elections. Net domestic financing of the deficit exceeded prudent
limits from FY95, and revenue growth also slowed. The expenditure goal was
substantially achieved, though here too there was some letting-up of performance towards
the end of the period. Institutional strengthening for improved public resource
management was one of the enduring contributions of PRMAC. Particularly noteworthy
are the implementation of a program for budgeting and accounting reforms and the
consolidation of the internal debt register of the state-owned enterprises.
IDA Performance
IDA helped the Government formulate and implement the adjustment programs
under the Credit through detailed studies covering both revenue and public expenditure
and through several programs of technical assistance. Recognizing the difficult nature of
the Credit, IDA management showed a great deal of flexibility in assessing compliance,
agreeing to four waivers (three of them were no longer relevant) for the second tranche
release, and being prepared to consider supporting nine more waivers (three of them were
no longer relevant) for the third tranche release, if the Borrower could ensure maintenance
of a sound macroeconomic framework. Borrower commitment to the program could not,
however, be sustained over the extended period of the Credit.
Borrower's Performance
The Borrower's commitment was very good in some areas, though not uniform
across parts of the Credit. Also, commitment waned after the first three years. GOB
should be credited for its decisiveness in areas like introduction of VAT, streamlining
income tax policy, initiating the internal debt register for SOEs, the RIBEC process, and
improvements in procurement processing. GOB's commitment in other areas, however,
was minimalist, as for instance, in utilizing the 6 sectoral investment reviews that were
prepared, staffing of the Non-Tax Revenue Cell, and widening the income tax net.
Progress in these areas was just sufficient to meet the compliance requirements, rather
than being implemented in a manner that the improvements would have a lasting impact
and would be sustained. In addition, the Borrower's co-ordination of the Credit was
handicapped as no single agency was entrusted with the task of leading the reform
process. During the initial years of the Credit, the Finance Division took the lead, but
subsequently ERD took over the co-ordination function.
Assessment of Outcome and Lessons Learned
With good progress in the first three years of the Credit, the first and second
tranches were released. The Government also successfully completed the ESAF program
with the IME. However, the Credit's third tranche could not be released due to GOB's
inability to maintain the revenue performance targets specified under the Credit and to
keep up sound macroeconomic balances beyond the initial three year (FY92-94) period.
The IMF shared IDA's view on the assessment of the macroeconomic framework.



-iv-
Notably, the revenue/GDP ratio remained virtually stagnant at around 12% of GDP in
FY95 and FY96. The overall budget deficit, which had been contained at 6.0% of GDP in
FY94 rose to 6.8% of GDP in FY95. Until FY95, net domestic financing of the deficit
was kept below the 1. 5% of GDP benchmark considered to be consistent with a stable
macroeconomic framework. In FY95, however, the increase in the deficit was
accompanied by an increase in the domestically financed part to 1.9% of GDP and
exceeded 2% of GDP in FY96.
Admittedly, these were high standards which were set under the program.
Discounting for the over-ambitiousness of the program, however, overall the assessment
of outcome must be judged as satisfactory in view of the creditable progress made in tax
reform, expenditure prioritization, in developing a suitable macroeconomic framework and
strengthening of institutions responsible for fiscal management.
With the experience of the PRMAC, three key lessons emerge for the processing
of any future adjustment operations in Bangladesh:
i. There should be continued political commitment to the program, a
commitment which is driven by the inherent merits of the program and
demonstrated by substantial up-front actions.
ii. The tranche release conditions should be limited to a few key actions which
would effectively address the issues at hand, and should be doable within the
time frame of the operation, the political realities, and country's institutional
capacity to implement the program.
iii. Implementation of the program should be vested in a strong focal point within
the administration, which would serve as the program's champion, providing
the driving force for it to be effectively carried through.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2361 BD)
Part 1 PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
BACKGROUND
I.    With a GNP per capita of US$ 230 Bangladesh is one of the world's poorest countries;
and with a population of 120 million, it is the poorest of the large countries. The extremely
limited land area, absence of mineral resources (other than natural gas), weak administration,
physical and social infrastructure have impeded economic progress. Nevertheless, real GDP
growth rates averaged about 4-5% per annum over the last 20 years. With population growth
rate declining in this period from 2.8% to 2.0%, per capita incomes have risen, though only
modestly. In its pursuit of stabilization policies (promoted over a good part of this period by
IMIF/IDA) Bangladesh has had more success, with external and fiscal deficits and inflation
being contained.
BANGLADESH'S PERFORMANCE AND STRATEGIES IN THE PERIOD
PRECEDING THE PRMAC
2.    Real GDP growth rates averaged 5% p.a. in the FY81-86 period, while stabilization
policies supported by the IMF and IDA contributed to reducing the external and fiscal deficits
from 10-12 per cent of GDP to about 7%, and containing inflation to about 10%. From FY87,
however, growth and performance trended downwards following the record floods of FY88
and FY89 and decline in macroeconomic management. Public investment fell from 9.4 percent
of GDP in FY8 1 to 6. 1 percent in FY9 1, and private investment from 6.5 percent of GDP to
5.6 per cent. As a result of its inaction in increasing revenues and curtailing recurrent
expenditures to redress fiscal imbalances, the Government opted for major reductions in local
funding for the Annual Development Program (ADP). This had a cumulative impact in
depressing public investment, as foreign aid too could not be adequately utilized for want of
counterpart funds. The fiscal deficit rose to 7.8% of GDP in FY90, the inflation rate to 9.3%,
and the balance of payments current account deficit to 6.9% of GDP.
3.    To arrest the deterioration in the economy, the Government accepted an IMF ESAF
program (approved in August 1990) and IDA support in establishing short-term targets for
structural reform. Economic management improved, even though the country came to be
faced with a daunting range of internal and external shocks: the Gulf crisis resulting in the
return of some 70,000 workers and rising oil prices; mounting political unrest compelling the
resignation of the President in December 1990 and restoration of parliamentary democracy in
October 1991; a massive cyclone in April 1991, followed by heavy flooding.



- 2 -
WHAT WERE THE PRMAC OBJECTIVES?
4.    IDA's Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit (PRMAC) was approved in
May 1992. The Credit was to disburse in three equal tranches, totaling SDR 109.3 million
(US$150 million equivalent). The first tranche was made available on effectiveness, in June
1992. The second tranche was scheduled for around September 1992, and the third tranche,
for a year later, September 1993. The closing date for the Credit was to be June 30, 1994.
The PRMAC was aimed at supporting the Government's program as set out in the PFP under
the ESAF arrangement. PRMAC's objectives were broadly four-fold, and appropriately
focused on the key fiscal policy and institutional arrangements needed in the Bangladeshi
context for improved public resource management:
i. Improving macroeconomic management and raising public savings and
investment was PRMAC's overarching objective; public investment had fallen from
FY87.
ii. Tax reform. Bangladesh had for long one of the weakest revenue mobilization
efforts in Asia. Revenues remained virtually unchanged as a percentage of GDP,
accounting for 9.4 per cent of GDP in FY81 and 9.3 percent in FY90. The tax
structure was excessively dependent on trade flows, while direct tax administration
was weak and characterized by a high degree of tax evasion, rent-seeking and
insufficient political will to collect.
iii. Expenditure prioritization. Current expenditures rose from 5.6 percent of GDP
in FY81 to 9.0 percent in FY91, with increase in wage and salary payments
overstaffing and deterioration in the financial position of state enterprises. On the
other hand, priority current expenditures such as operations and maintenance and
health and education were underfunded. In the attempt to address fiscal imbalances
it was the Government's investment program that was repeatedly cut. The problem
was worsened by about one-half of local resources being allocated to low priority
projects and with foreign aid disbursements slowing down.
iv. Institutional strengthening was to be instrumental in attaining PRMAC's
objectives listed above. Aid disbursements were hindered by weak government
institutions and cumbersome administrative procedures. Most striking were the
delays in the approval of projects and technical assistance, in procurement and
project staffing. Central government agencies had little ability to control the
pattern of public expenditures with the outmoded administrative procedures for
planning, budgeting and accounting.
HOW DEMANDING AND COMPLEX WAS THE PROJECT TO THE BORROWER?
5.    Tackling the wide-ranging aspects of public resource management in Bangladesh in a
single 2-3 year operation was clearly a challenging task. Making it more arduous was the



- 3 -
multiplicity of conditions on which the program was based. The second tranche release, for
instance, was made contingent on fulfilling 38 specific conditions. The third tranche release
was linked to 25 conditions, though many of these were a continuation of actions under the
second tranche. Further, some of the individual conditions had multiple requirements, as for
instance, the condition on project re-structuring which called for completion of detailed
designs for the re-structuring of the ten projects selected. Presumably the multiplicity of
conditions was intended to delineate the path the Borrower had to follow, so as to ensure that
the objectives of the Credit would be realized. But given Bangladesh's weak administrative
and implementation capacity the Credit was over-designed -- as was acknowledged in the
President's memo in explaining the delay in second tranche release. Covenants which over-
specified methods of raising revenue became superflous as as government revenues were raised
through other means. Also the situation changed over time, making it difficult to keep some of
the conditions relevant and implementable. Structuring of PRMAC conditionality in this way
rendered the credit onerous to the borrower. In the event, the second tranche release was
more than a year late and was made possible only with the granting of waivers on four of the
tranche release conditions. With the Credit extending into a fourth and fifth year, political
commitment dwindled to carry through with the reforms in the midst of political strife and
upcoming elections. And as the new Government which took office in June 1996 could not
meet the remaining conditions, release of the third tranche did not prove feasible.
6.    It is clear also in retrospect that one of the covenants was technically flawed, namely,
that outstanding tax arrears (including disputed payments) should decline by Tk. 1 billion each
year from 1992/93. As the income tax net was widened and as tax assessments increased,
taxpayer appeals to the courts from these (often inflated) assessments also increased, so that
outstanding tax arrears (including disputed payments) inevitably rose rather than declined. So
in the supervision of the Credit, IDA agreed to focus only on the collectible component of the
tax arrears.
IDA'S ADJUSTMENT AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY FOR BANGLADESH
7.    IDA's lending strategy at the time was closely linked to the Government's program for
promoting the productive sector and dealing with social development concerns. IDA lending
was programmed at around US$450-500 million a year, with about 15-20 percent in
adjustment lending. The PRMAC for US$150 million was an integral part of this strategy, the
other adjustment operations under consideration being a Second Industrial Sector Adjustment
Credit, the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, and one for restructuring the jute
manufacturing industry. These adjustment operations targeted an improved regulatory
framework for private sector industry, rationalization of the trade regime, phasing out excess
production capacity and labor in public sector jute mills and eventual privatization, and
financial sector reforms to enhance competition, reduce government intervention, interest rate
liberalization, strengthening of the nationalized commercial banks and an improved legal
framework for debt recovery. The PRMAC addressed public resource management issues and
backed the Government's program to achieve a sustained increase in public savings and
investment over medium term, and to utilize these resources effciently in support of high
piority programs.



PRMAC AND IMF CO-ORDINATION
8.    The PRMAC was prepared in close consultation with the IMF and essentially
buttressed the IMF's on-going ESAF program. A number of the objectives were similar, such
as increasing revenues by 0.5 percent of GDP (introduction of VAT was a structural
benchmark for the ESAF program as well as a prior action for PRMAC appraisal), limiting the
growth of current expenditures to less than the growth of nominal GDP, increasing public
investment in real terms and prioritizing public investment. The macroeconomic framework of
the PRMAC was prepared jointly with the IMF in the context of formulating the annual PFP.
While the ESAF/PRMAC objectives were similar, PRMAC adopted more specific performance
targets in key areas such as tax administration and prioritization of the public investment
program, while also addressing institutional aspects of revenue and public expenditure reforms,
The ESAF program was successfully completed by FY94.
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.    The PRMAC aimed at achieving a substantial increase in public savings and investment
over the medium-term, and at ensuring that resources were utilized efficiently for high priority
programs. To achieve this objective, the PRMAC monitored policy performance in four broad
areas: i) macroeconomic framework, ii) tax reform; iii) expenditure prioritization; and iv)
institutional strengthening. The PRMAC was initially intended to cover the period FY92-94.
But with the second tranche being released more than a year late, extension of the closing date
became necessary. The last extension, to December 1996, was to give the new Government a
chance to deliver on the few remaining sticky conditions.
10.   Improving macroeconomic management by raising public savings and investment,
was PRMAC's overarching objective. This objective was achieved in the first three years of
the program (FY92-94) but performance was mixed in the last 2 1/2 years (FY95-96 and first
half of FY97). The unfavorable developments in FY95 and FY96 were no doubt linked to the
prolonged period of political unrest and disturbances and the run up to the elections.
Bangladesh's revenue surplus grew from 0.9% of GDP in FY91 to 3.3% of GDP in FY95 and
3% in FY96. This rising revenue surplus has effectively removed one of the key constraints
the country experienced on growth in public investment. The overall budget deficit too
declined from 7.2% of GDP in FY91 to 6.0% of GDP in FY94 with the simultaneous
improvement in augmenting revenues and containing current expenditures. But it rose to 6.8%
of GDP in FY95, reflecting the slowdown in revenue growth and a rise in the size of the ADP
as well as the food account deficit. Estimated actuals for FY96 suggest that the overall deficit
was contained at 5.8% of GDP. But for the first half of FY97, the preliminary indications are
that the deficit has grown under the new Government.
11.   Until FY95, net domestic financing of the deficit was kept well below the 1.5% of GDP
benchmark considered to be consistent with a stable macroeconomic framework. In FY95,
however, the increase in the deficit was accompanied by an increase in the domestically



-5 -
financed part to 1.9% of GDP, and exceeded 2% of GDP in FY96 with the shortfall in foreign
financing.
12.  Improvements in both revenue mobilization and in expenditure were objectives which
were at the heart of the PRMAC. Bangladesh had for long one of the weakest revenue
mobilization efforts in Asia. Revenues remained virtually unchanged as a percentage of GDP,
accounting for 9.4% of GDP in FY81 and 9.3% in FY90. With the introduction of the VAT,
supported under the PRMAC, revenues rose significantly and accounted for 12.2% of GDP by
FY94. VAT revenues as a percentage of GDP rose from 1.9% in FY92 to 3.6% in FY94 and
were largely responsible for the improvement in Bangladesh's revenue performance.
13.   Revenue growth, however, slowed in FY95 and in FY96, reflecting to some extent the
effect of the political unrest on economic activities and also policy slippages of the
government. Customs duty collections also fell below budgetary targets. The revenue/GDP
ratio, as a consequence, remained virtually stagnant at 12.1% of GDP in FY95 and declined to
1 1.5% of GDP in FY96. An improvement in FY97 is unlikely with the shortfall in revenue
collection in the first half of the year.
14.   The PRMAC covenants specifically require an increase in the revenue/GDP ratio of
0.5% per year. This 0.5% increase was exceeded in the first three years of the program
(FY92-94) as well as in the first four years (FY92-95) -- revenues being buoyed up by the
VAT-- but was not attained over the five-year period FY92-96.
Average annual increase in the revenue/GDP ratio (%)
FY92-94              FY92-95                FY92-96
0.87                 0.63                   0.38
15.   Even as revenues rose, current expenditures were kept in check, while providing for
real increases in priority areas like primary education, primary health and family planning and
operations and maintenance Aggregate current expenditures had risen from 6.5% of GDP in
FY85 to 8.8% in FY90. From then, as required under PRMAC, their growth was contained at
around this level, while ADP expenditures rose.
Current Expenditures and ADP as % of GDP (%)
Current      FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Expenditures   8.8    8,7    8.3    8.9     8.9      8.8     8.7
ADP           6.4    6.2    6.3    7.1      8.4      8.6     7.4
In FY96 current expenditures were contained at 8.7% of GDP, despite increased
outlays on defense, elections and food operations. For the first half of FY97, preliminary
indications are that current expenditure overruns will arise from unexpected expenditures on
fertilizer subsidies, wage bill and stockpiling of rice.



- 6 -
16.   With improved economic management real GDP growth averaged 4.4% in FY92-FY96
(FY96 figures are provisional estimates). Gross investment in this period rose from 12.1% of
GDP in FY92 to 17% by FY96, with the private sector contributing more to the increase than
the public sector. Though growth in GDP and investment were somewhat lower than targeted
(the Fourth Five-Year Plan and ESAF-supported program targeted GDP growth rates of about
5%), per capita incomes rose on average by about 2.2% annually and have contributed to the
prime national objective of poverty alleviation.
17.   Growth achieved in the economy was successfully combined with stability.
Accompanying fiscal stabilization was a reduction in the growth of money supply. The rate of
growth of domestic credit also declined from 10.1% in FY91 to 3.5% in FY94, but it rose
sharply by 17.6% in FY95, by 19.9% in FY96 and remained high in the first half of FY97.
Inflation had been kept below 2% in FY93 and FY94, but climbed to 5.2% in FY95. Efforts to
reduce inflationary pressures by tightening demand management and the increased supply of
foodgrains did bring down the inflation rate to 4.1% in FY96. But the rate of inflation had
risen again to a 12-month rate of 5.7% in January, 1997.
18.   Fiscal prudence and reduction in the budget deficit was reflected in the improved
external position in FY92-94. Contributing to the improvement until FY94 was a faster
growth in exports than in imports, a steady rise in worker remittances and the benefits of highly
concessionary terms of aid. The current account deficit declined from 4.2% of GDP in FY91
to 1.6% of GDP by FY94, and international reserves swelled to $2.9 billion (8.2 months of
imports). However, the external sector began weakening in FY95. The current account deficit
widened to 5% of GDP by FY96 and reserves declined to $2 billion (3.6 months imports).
Contributory factors were slower export growth, rapid import growth, and a slowdown in aid
disbursements and in foreign direct investment. The current account deficit narrowed in the
first half of FY97.
19.   The expenditure prioritization goal of PRMAC was substantially achieved, though
here too there was some letting-up of performance towards the end of the period. While the
ADP has grown from 6.2% of GDP in FY91 to 7.4% of GDP by FY96, PRMAC had also
contributed to improving the quality of the public investment program, through pruning of
lower priority projects and through institutionalizing a Three-Year rolling investment program
which reconciles funding requirements with resource availabilities. Progress in this area,
however, has tended to slip with the recent increase in locally-funded projects, which are
subject to a much less rigorous project approval process. The current ADP (FY97) indeed
includes a number of unapproved projects.
20.   Project implementation and aid utilization in Bangladesh were hampered by marked
delays. By placing limits on growth in current expenditure and through promoting
prioritization of the public investment program, PRMAC has helped to reduce the problem of
inadequate budgetary allocations for priority projects. In addition, measures were introduced
in PRMAC to reduce project implementation delays, notably improvements effected in
procurement monitoring. This has contributed to raising the rates of ADP implementation



- 7 -
from 81% in FY92 to 92% by FY95. Disbursement ratios on aided projects have improved
from 18.7% in FY92 to 22% in FY95 and 21.9% in FY96.
21.   Another important obstacle to aid utilization was the delays in the approval of related
technical assistance programs. Under PRMAC, revised guidelines have been issued for the
approval of technical assistance proposals and a three-month time limit placed for
consideration of TAPPs. GOB will still need to institute a well-defined process to monitor and
ensure compliance within this time limit.
22.   Finally, PRMAC's institutional strengthening objective for improved public resource
management was achieved in large measure. Particularly noteworthy are: (a) the
implementation of a program for budgeting and accounting reforms which will help to
modernize the accounting system and provide accounting information on the composition of
expenditures on a timely and accurate basis; and (b) the completion of consolidation and up-
dating of the internal debt register for debt-service obligations of 39 state-owned enterprises.
With this the Ministry of Finance now has the capacity to monitor the repayment of internal
debt-service obligations by these state-owned enterprises on a regular basis; without up-dated
registers substantial arrears and large implicit subsidies had burdened GOB finances. It now
remains for the Ministry of Finance to effectively utilize the debt registers to claim the debt
service payments due.
BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   The PRMAC was IDA's first structural adjustment credit covering all elements of a
comprehensive fiscal program, and IDA played a very significant role in assisting the Borrower
to formulate and implement the adjustment programs. On the expenditure side, of particular
importance was the analysis provided by IDA in its gray cover reports: Bangladesh Public
Expenditure Review, 1989 and Bangladesh Poverty and Public Expenditures, 1990. On tax
reform, IDA provided a major technical assistance mission to Bangladesh in 1986 to develop a
medium-to-long term program of tax reform. The work of this mission, the report "Agenda
for Tax Reform" provided one of the major inputs to the paper "Lessons of Tax Reform" that
was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on April 16, 1991. The PRMAC
represents the first adjustment operation in the Bank Group to provide support for a broad-
based program of tax reform following on the recommendations in this Board paper. The
Bank's appraisal of the PRMAC was, however, marred by a multiplicity of conditions and
overdesign in the context of Bangladesh's weak administrative and implementation capacity.
24.   To assist in implementation, IDA provided formal as well as informal technical
assistance to the Borrower, with staff of all units of the Dhaka Resident Mission and the Chief
of Mission participating actively. On tax reform, for instance, IDA's technical assistance
included advice on income tax administration as well as best practices relating to the tax
holiday issue. Currently IDA is arranging a program of technical assistance in the area of
direct tax administration, one of the weakest aspects of the tax system. On expenditure
reform, PRMAC follow-up has been provided by IDA's baseline Public Expenditure Review of
June 1996. Up-dating annual Public Expenditure Reviews are also programmed.



-8-
25.   Recognizing the difficult nature of the Credit, IDA demonstrated considerable
flexibility in assessing compliance. IDA agreed to four waivers for release of the second
tranche, and conceded that the one-year delay in release of this tranche was due not to a weak
Government commitment to the reform but to the over-designing of the Credit relative to
GOB's institutional capacity. For the third tranche, three successive extensions of the closing
date were allowed: the first extension, because of the one-year delay in the second tranche
release; the second extension, to give the Government more time to fulfill the remaining
conditions; and the third extension, to afford the new Government an opportunity to address
the outstanding issues -- primarily, those relating to revenue collection efforts and the
macroeconomic framework, tax holidays and VAT exemptions. In the end, waivers of 9 of the
25 conditions would have been required for third tranche release, and IDA management was
prepared to consider recommending these waivers, (3 of these conditions were no longer
relevant) provided the Borrower met the overarching requirement of improved revenue
collection and maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework. But since both requirements
could not be fulfilled the third tranche could not be released.
26.   Reflecting the importance of PRMAC, parallel financing and support was provided by
KfW, British ODA, UNDP and USAID. IDA maintained satisfactory interaction with these
donors at all stages, from negotiation through supervision.
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
27.   GOB's coordination of the Credit was handicapped as no single agency was entrusted
with the task of leading the reform process. During the initial years of the Credit,
corresponding to the second tranche phase, the Finance Division took the lead in arranging
some of the coordination meetings. This was linked to the fact that the Secretary of the
Finance Division was the leader of the GOB negotiation team. Subsequently, following the
second tranche release, ERD took over the coordination function. The intensity of the
monitoring/coordination effort was not continuous, but rather was bunched towards the end of
the tranche period, being driven by the requirement of showing results prior to the Credit
closing date. In retrospect, it seems that failure to represent the Planning Commission also
contributed to the weak coordination of the Credit.
28.   GOB's commitment has not been uniform in all areas of the Credit. Also, commitment
waned after the first three years. On the one hand, GOB should be credited for its decisiveness
in some areas -- notably introduction of VAT in FY92, streamlining income tax policy,
initiating the internal debt register for SOEs, the RIBEC process, and improvements in
procurement processing. On the other hand, GOB's commitment in other areas was open to
question, with the actions being limited to the minimum necessary to meet the compliance
requirements, rather than being owned by the agency and implemented in a manner which
would suggest that improvements were being institutionalized and would be sustained.
29.   For instance, while relatively better progress has been made in procurement processing,
the Procurement Monitoring Cell at IMED continues to be understaffed and under-equipped to



-9-
function effectively, and there is yet no system of accountability for lapses and delays in
procurement processing. Little effort has been made in using the six sectoral investment
reviews supported under the Credit or in disseminating these widely within the Government.
In the areas under the Finance Division, the Non-Tax Revenue Cell has not yet been developed
into a fully functioning setup capable of playing the desired role. While the external debt
register has been updated, GOB is yet to establish a fully functioning debt management system
capable of improving the recovery of DSL from SOEs. In income tax administration, the
commitment to increasing the number of tax payers, through systematic internal and external
surveys and focusing on high income cases, has been lacking and the efforts have been very
inadequate. While some measures were announced to deal with the problem of income tax
arrears, more could have been done in terms of adequate staffing of the Appellate Division and
the Tribunals and setting of time limits on the disposal of these cases.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME, SUSTAINABILITY, AND LESSONS LEARNED
30.   The Credit's third tranche could not be released due to GOB's inability to maintain the
revenue performance targets and to keep up sound macroeconomic balances beyond its initial
three year (FY92-94) period. The IMF shared IDA's view on the assessment of the
macroeconomic framework. Nevertheless, GOB made creditable progress in introducing the
VAT, expenditure prioritization, in developing a suitable macroeconomic framework and
strengthening of institutions responsible for fiscal management.
31.   Further, those aspects of the program that have been implemented successfully, are
likely to be sustained. GOB is clearly committed to PRMAC's flagship program, VAT, which
is to be progressively extended to cover the entire domestic trade and all major services.
Extension of the direct tax net to cover higher income tax assessees, and an increase in the
overall coverage of income tax, however, appears less likely. The preparation of Three-Year
Rolling Investment Programs (TYRIP) supported under PRMAC is likely to remain a useful
medium-term planning device. Equally there are systems in place and continued GOB
commitment to other PRMAC initiatives such as prioritizing public investments, pruning and
cost rationalization, close monitoring of selected high priority projects, protecting the recurrent
budget for the priority social sectors, and improving procedures for procurement of goods,
works and services. This framework for improved public resource management is likely to be
one of the lasting legacies of the PRMAC. In institutional improvements, not the least of
PRMAC's contributions are reforms in budget and expenditure control, and GOB's desire to
carry through with these reforms.



- 10-
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   With the experience of the PRMAC, three key lessons emerge for the processing of any
future adjustment operations in Bangladesh:
i. There should be continued political commitment to the program, a commitment
which is driven by the inherent merits of the program and demonstrated by
substantial up-front actions.
ii. The tranche release conditions should be limited to a few key actions which would
effectively address the issues at hand, and should be doable within the time frame of
the operation, the political realities, and country's institutional capacity to
implement the program.
iii. Implementation of the program should be vested in a strong focal point within the
administration, and which would serve as the program's champion, providing the
driving force for it to be effectively carried through.



- 1 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit
(Credit 2361-BD)
Part II - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial    Partial     Negligible  Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                        X
Sector Policies                                                          X
Financial Objectives                                                     X
Institutional Development        X
Physical Objectives                                                      X
Poverty Reduction                                                        X
Gender Concerns                                                          X
Other Social Objectives                                                  X
Environmental Objectives                                                 X
Public Sector Management                      X
Private Sector Development                                               X
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability          Likely      Unlikely     Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank Performance             Satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Deficient
Identification                                X
Preparation Assistance                        X
Appraisal                                     X
Supervision                                   X
Highly
D. Borrower Performance         Satisfactorv   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                   X
Implementation                                              X
Covenant Compliance                                         X
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                 Highly
E. Assesssment of Outcome       Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
x



- 12-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title              Purpose             Year of Approval      Status
Preceding Operations
Financial Sector       Sector policy reform; financial      1990        Closed Dec. 1993
Adjustment Credit      restructuring of public banks
Following Operations
Sixth Technical        Strengthening of capacity in         1992           On-going
Assistance Credit      various areas of governance
Second Industrial      Reforms in import liberalization,    1992        Closed Dec. 1994
Sector Adjustment Credit export promotion and private
sector development
Jute Sector Adjustment   Sub-sector policy and enterprise   1994       2nd tranche pending
Credit                 restructuring



- 13-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle   Date Planned       latest estimate
Identification Mission                     May 12-25, 1989
Appraisal Mission                          Nov. 19-Dec. 19, 1991
Negotiations                               March 16-20, 1992
Letter of development policy               March 30, 1992
Board Presentation                         May 5, 1992
Signing                                    May 13, 1992
Effectiveness             May 31, 1992    June 8, 1992
Second Tranche Release    September 1992  December 1993
Project Completion        June 30, 1994    December 31, 1996
Loan Closing              June 30, 1994    December 31, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Estimated & Actual
Expected                     Actual         Expected v.
Date           Amount ($M)             Date        Actual (months)
First Tranche                 5/30/92              50.0               6/8/92              0
Second Tranche                9/30/92              50.0               12/2/93             14
Third Tranche                 9/30/93              50.0              12/31/96            39
Actual Amount ($M)             100.5
Date of Final Disbursement:    February 22, 1994



- 14 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators
in SAR/President's Report                   Estimated                           Actual
Increased revenue collection           each year, FY92-94                  Collections stagnant after FY94
Improved Expenditure Prioritization    each year, FY92-94                  FY92-FY96
Institutional Strengthening            through FY94                       through FY96
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                           Purpose as define
at appraisal/redefined                   Status                        Impact of Study
Study on appropriate taxation on      As VAT was not being levied on      Completed                         GOB did not act on its
yarn and textiles                      domestically-produced yarn and                                        recommendations. A follow-up
textiles, the study was to suggest                                    study recommended improving
appropriate taxation for this                                        the efficiency of the industry
sector                                                               prior to removing the VAT
exemption.
Study on alternative                  To recommend an alternative         Completed                         The three studies that were
tax incentives for                    scheme of incentives to replace                                       commissioned recommended
investment to                         company tax holidays                                                   some modifications of the tax
replace company tax                                                                                         holiday scheme, rather than an
holidays                                                                                                    alternative to tax holidays, as
was required under the credit.



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant   Present  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Agreement  Section        Type       Status       Date        Date              Description of Covenant                  Comments
1-7       2,11         NC       June '94     Dec. '96   Revenue reform, increased revenue       Objectives attained in the
mobilization, restraint on current      first 3 years, but not
expenditure growth                      thereafter.
8-15        11          CP       June '94     Dec. '96   Improve public investment programming, Good progress made, but
project pruning and public expenditure    some let-up towards
prioritization                          the end of the program.
16-18       3,9          C       June '94     Dec. '96   Improve aid utilization                  Good progress recorded.
19,20        13          C       June '94     Dec. '96   Institutional strengthening              Good progress recorded.
Covenant Types:                                                                                                 Present Status:
I = Accounts/audits               8 = Indigenous people                                             C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue  9 = Monitoring, review and reporting                              CD = complied with after delay
general from beneficiaries     10 = Project implementation not covered                           CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project    by categories 1-9                                            NC = not complied with
funds                          I I = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
4 = Counterpart funding                or other resource allocation
5 = Management aspects of the      12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
project or executing agency         regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants        13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



- 16 -
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of            Planned           Revised            Actual
Project Cycle     Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal   n. a.  n. a.    n.a.     n.a.      170.4   386.6
Appraisal               na       na        n.a.     na.        51.9     51.8
Negotiations through    n ar  n a.         n.a.     n.a. l_   |_l
Board approval      n.a.      n.a |  n.a.       n.a.        9.8    26.4
Supervision         0 0  n.a.    n.a.      n.a.     n.a L    75.4    157.6
Completion              n.a.      n.a.     n.a      n.a.        6.2    20.7
TOTAL____________    n.a.        na.       n.a      na        313.7   643.1



- 17 -
APPENDIX A
Bangladesh
Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit (PRMAC)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Mission
November 14 - December 2, 1996
Aide Memoire
1.    This mission is in preparation for the Implementation Completion Report of the
PRMAC. It also represents the last supervision prior to the December 31,1996 closing date
of the Credit. The mission comprising N. Ramachandran and S. Nizamuddin has conducted
a review from November 14 - December 2,1996 of implementation of the PRMAC. The
mission met with officials of the Economic Relations Division (ERD), Finance Division, the
former Secretary of the Finance Division (who led GOB's PRMAC negotiating team),
National Board of Revenue (NBR), the Planning Commission, the Implementation,
Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED) and Bangladesh Bank. During the discussions,
the mission also drew attention to the need for GOB to prepare its own contribution to the
ICR and has provided the necessary guidance. The mission in addition liaised with the co-
financiers associated with the Credit: UNDP, ODA and KfW and invited their views on the
implementation of the Credit. The list of GOB officials and cofinancier representatives met
is annexed (Annex 1).
2.    The PRMAC, approved in May 1992, was to disburse in three equal tranches,
totaling SDR 109.3 million (US $150 million equivalent). The first tranche was made
available on effectiveness, and the second tranche, in December 1993, more than a year
late. The closing date of the Credit was to be June 30, 1994. On requests made by GOB,
IDA extended the closing date by 15 months, to September 30, 1995. This was followed by
two further extensions, pushing the closing date back to December 31, 1996. Progress
under the Credit was reviewed with the GOB delegation to the Bank/Fund annual Meeting in
Washington on October 2,1996. The review recognized the progress that had been made
under the Credit on several aspects of public resource management. However, in view of
GOB's inability to meet some of the conditions for release of the third tranche, it was agreed
between the GOB delegation and senior Bank management that this tranche would be
allowed to lapse.'
3.    The overall objectives of the PRMAC were: developing a suitable macroeconomic
framework; carrying out tax reform; prioritizing expenditure; improving aid utilization, and;
institutional strengthening. The PRMAC was initially intended to cover the period FY92-94.
With creditable progress during this period in meeting these objectives the first and second
tranches were released. However, the let-up in FY95 and FY96 in some key performance
areas has precluded the possibility of release of the third and final tranche. There is a
broad consensus nevertheless on the importance of working towards realization of the
PRMAC objectives and in sustaining the improvements that have been recorded under the
1     This agreement is not reflected in Mr. Mahbub Kabir's letter of October 23,1996 to Mr. Pierre
Landell-Mills requesting release of the third tranche.



- 18 -
Credit. This Aide Memoire also addresses some of the key follow-up actions needed to
promote such sustainability.
A.    The major problems/implementation issues
4.    The major problems/implementation issues that have precluded release of the third
tranche relate to:
(i)  revenue  collection  efforts and  maintaining  a  sound  macroeconomic
framework;
(ii)  replacing tax holidays with an alternative incentive scheme;
(iii)  the question of VAT exemptions.
A brief discussion of each of these issues follows:
(i)   Revenue and macroeconomic performance
5.    Increasing the revenue/GDP ratio by 0.5 percentage point a year and maintaining a
sound macroeconomic framework is an over-arching objective of PRMAC. While this
objective was realized in FY92-94, revenue growth slowed in FY95 and FY96. The
revenue/GDP ratio remained virtually stagnant at about 12 % of GDP in FY95 and FY96.
The overall budget deficit, which had been contained at 6.0 % of GDP in FY94, rose to 6.8
% of GDP in FY95, reflecting the slowdown in revenue growth as well as a rise in the size of
the ADP and in the food account deficit. Estimates for FY96 suggest that the overall deficit
was contained at 5.8 % of GDP by FY96. Until FY95, net domestic financing of the deficit
was kept well below the 1.5 % of GDP benchmark considered to be consistent with a stable
macroeconomic framework. In FY95, however, the increase in the deficit was accompanied
by an increase in the domestically financed part to 1.9% of GDP, and exceeded 2 % of
GDP in FY96. GOB acknowledges the need for corrective measures and has given top
priority to restoring revenue growth and macroeconomic stability.
(ii)   The tax holiday issue
6.    As tax holidays are not an efficient way of promoting private investment, and in view
of the tax losses and abuses associated with tax holiday schemes, the PRMAC called for
some alternative scheme of tax incentives for companies to replace current tax holidays.
The tax holiday scheme ended in 1995, but GOB extended tax holidays in its 1995/96
Budget up to the year 2000. This extended scheme limited its duration in less developed
areas, but widened eligibility for tax holidays from manufacturing and tourist industry to
physical infrastructure facilities and extraction of mineral resources.
7.    The 1996/97 Budget compounded the issue by extending tax holidays to expansion
units in industrial undertakings, tourist industries and physical infrastructure facilities, even if
the 'parent' undertaking does not itself qualify for the tax holiday. In effect, therefore, there



- 19 -
is now a blanket tax holiday for expansion units in any of these activities, further widening
the hole in Bangladesh's direct tax net. Tax losses and inequities will be all the more in
view of the recently announced 'no questions asked' amnesty on the source of such
investments, which will undermine the principle of non-discriminatory treatment and
accountability of all categories of tax payers.
8.   In defense of tax holidays, GOB points out that the scheme enjoys broad support
among the business community -- domestic as well as foreign -- and further that the grant of
tax holidays by neighboring countries makes it difficult for Bangladesh to hastily withdraw
the scheme at this stage. It should be noted, however, that the current blanket provision of
tax holidays in Bangladesh is without parallel in the neighboring countries, which offer
instead only very selective and targeted tax holidays. The mission recommends that, as an
interim measure, the scope of tax holidays be reduced and made more selective, pending
the elaboration of a more efficient alternative incentive regime to encourage investment.
(iii)   VAT exemptions
9.    The introduction of VAT, supported under PRMAC, has contributed to one of the
most striking improvements in Bangladesh's recent fiscal performance. The integrity of the
VAT system is nevertheless impaired by several exemptions granted and PRMAC has
called for their removal. The exemptions include those on yarn and textiles, biris, bank
services and exemptions given in the FY96 Budget for poultry and cattle feed and
medicines and for certain hospital equipment. Regarding the FY96 Budget exemptions,
GOB point out that the revenue loss is small. The 1996-97 Budget, on the other hand, has
extended VAT coverage to selected retail products, yielding additional revenue of some Tk
480 million.
10.   Although the removal of the exemptions mentioned above has not been realized
during the PRMAC period, the mission is encouraged by NBR's program to progressively
extend the coverage of VAT through the year 2000. More specifically, the program will,
beginning in the 1996/97 year, progressively bring the entire domestic trade (wholesale and
retail) sector and all major services except education, public administration and defense
under VAT. The program includes bringing textiles under VAT, replacing excise on biri and
bank services with VAT, and withdrawing the cottage industry exemption. Successful
implementation is to be sustained by programs of training, audit, investigation and
intelligence, computerization and tax education and publicity. The mission cannot
overemphasize the importance of carrying through with such a program extending the
scope of the VAT, which will require strong political commitment.
B.    Progress on Other Aspects of the Credit
1. Direct Tax Administration
11.  In improving direct tax administration, progress under the PRMAC has been uneven.
The objective of expanding the coverage of the self assessment scheme to the majority of



- 20 -
assessees with incomes below Tk 80,000 has not been met. The self-assessment scheme
is an optional one, with the requirement that those who opt for it should pay the maximum
tax of Tk 1200. It has not been practicable for NBR to introduce self-assessment on a
compulsory basis, and a waiver of this condition was given on second tranche release.
Nevertheless, in order to achieve the PRMAC objective of focusing NBR's limited personnel
and logistical capacity on higher income taxpayers, NBR is continuing to pursue a scheme
for encouraging self assessment. This includes the expeditious handling of returns from
small taxpayers as well as a program of taxpayer education. The scheme is beginning to
show results with the numbers opting for self assessment reaching 89, 896 in the current
1996/97 year, up from 55027 in 1995/96 -- a 63 % increase.
12.  In improving direct tax administration, a second objective of PRMAC was to
increase the number of higher income tax assessees. There has been progress
throughout the PRMAC period in meeting this objective. The proportion of assessees with
incomes over Tk 80,000 has risen steadily from 5.9 % of all assessees in FY93 to 7.6 % in
FY94 and to 10.8 % in FY96. The mission impressed on NBR the importance of rapidly
increasing the total number of assessees, so as to augment revenue collections, improve
the structure and equity of the tax system and consolidate the gains under PRMAC. In the
past few years, lists of potential taxpayers were developed by NBR based on surveys and
intelligence, but were not pursued. NBR should re-activate this work and initiate
appropriate actions against tax evaders. Income taxes still contribute only 13 % of GOB's
tax revenues and income tax assessees are a mere 0.5 % the population. A program of
technical assistance is now being initiated with IDA support for reform of direct tax
administration. Implementation of this program will need to be backed by strong political
commitment and should be given topmost priority.
13.   The third aspect of improvement in direct tax administration under PRMAC was the
progressive reduction in tax arrears. In the October 1995 review of the Credit by IDA
management and GOB, it was agreed that to assess compliance with this covenant, IDA
would look for evidence that collectible arrears were coming down and that there were
measures in place that were conducive to this trend. The classification of arrears provided
by NBR is as follows:
Table 1: Classification of Tax Arrears
(in billion taka)
As at 30 June As at 30 June As at 30 June
'94            '95            '96
Cumulative tax arrears      13.9            17.0            17.6
Reduction in appeal         3.1             3.0             3.5
Pending in appeal           7.7 (56%)       11.4 (67%)      11.4(65%)
Collectible demand          3.1 (22%)       2.6 (16%)       2.7 (15%)
Collection of arrears during the  1.1 (37%)  1.1 (43 %)     0.5 (18%)
year



- 21 -
14.   This classification suggests that collectible arrears declined in 1993/94 and in
1994/95. However, this improvement was not sustained in 1995/96 when the arrears
collection was considerably less than in the preceding year. NBR attributes this to the
political unrest during this period which resulted in dislocating the normal collection effort.
Accelerated collection of arrears should clearly be a priority task for NBR.
2. Prioritization of the Public Investment Program
15.   The preparation of a Three-Year Rolling Investment Program (TYRIP) has been
supported under the PRMAC and updated versions of this document have been prepared
every year. It is generally agreed that the TYRIP has been a useful medium-term planning
device to integrate the funding requirements of ongoing and proposed projects into a
consistent macroeconomic framework. Further, the absence of a long or medium-term
planning exercise in GOB at the time, enhanced the usefulness of the TYRIP. At the same
time, the usefulness of the TYRIP exercise tended to be limited by it not covering two
forward years. A related problem has been that the linkage between the TYRIP and the
ADP has been unclear. Projects not included in the TYRIP have been included in the ADP.
16.   Efforts need to be made to improve the operational usefulness of the TYRIP. The
coverage of years should be brought forward so that the base year of the TYRIP coincides
with the current year, and with two outer years. It is encouraging that the Planning
Commission plans to improve the coverage of years along these lines. The mission
recommends that the TYRIP for FY98-2000 be issued along with the FY98 budget. The
guidelines for inclusion of projects in the TYRIP also need to be reviewed and improved in
line with public expenditure criteria. As a matter of rule, inclusion of a project in the TYRIP
should be made a necessary condition for its inclusion in the ADP, i.e., projects not included
in the TYRIP should not be included in the ADP.
17.   A limit was set on the share of local currency funding under the ADP which could
be allocated to non-aided projects. The rationale for such a limit (25%) was that during the
eighties and early nineties, ADP implementation, particularly execution of aided projects,
suffered considerably because of shortfalls in local currency funding. However, as
budgetary revenue mobilization improved with the introduction of VAT in FY92, the
constraint on taka funding eased. With the improved budgetary situation, this limit was no
longer relevant and this conditionally was waived. It may be noted that the share of non-
aided projects has continued to increase over the years, and these projects account for
65% of taka funding under the FY97 ADP. For the future, given that the appraisal and
approval of non-aided projects is not always subject to the same standards as those for
aided projects, it may be useful to monitor this share and to consider limiting this at some
prudent level.
18.   The preparation of sectoral investment strategy review papers was supported
under PRMAC in order to help GOB identify imbalances in the investment program and deal
with the problem of ad hoc project selection. It was envisaged that these papers would
serve as a basis for strengthening the project pipeline over the medium-term. Six such
papers were prepared -- on health, natural gas, and fisheries sectors, as part of the second



- 22 -
tranche release conditions, and on rural development, women's affairs and youth
development, and physical planning, housing and water supply, as part of the third tranche
release conditions. The first three review papers were prepared by the Sector Divisions and
line Ministries. Preparation of the latter three reviews was assigned to a team of external
and local consultants engaged by the Programming Division. The quality and usefulness of
these reports varied considerably. It seems that there was rather limited involvement and
ownership of GOB in the preparation of the latter three reviews. Also there has been little
effort so far to disseminate these review reports widely within GOB or to discuss these in
any forum. Consequently, these reports have remained largely unused, although it was
envisaged that these reports would be used in formulating projects in the future. These six
reports should be disseminated, discussed and updated, if possible. Based on the
feedback on these reports, similar but improved reviews should be prepared for other major
sectors. This would be a priority task which will provide useful inputs for the preparation of
the 5-Year Plan which GOB proposes to issue by July 1997.
19.   The outcome of the action relating to the restructuring of ten ADP projects and
GOB's commitment in this regard has been mixed. While agreement had been reached
during negotiations on a list of 10 specific projects to be restructured, as part of the second
tranche actions, GOB requested IDA to substitute some new projects in lieu of some of the
agreed projects. In the case of the Barind Integrated Area Development Project, for
instance, GOB proposed to drop this from the list of projects to be restructured because of
the priority which GOB attached to the project which was aimed at regional development of
the Barind area. In some cases, the new projects proposed by GOB to be substituted were
smaller in size and scope than the originally agreed projects, and IDA had to concede to
GOB's request. For the future, in the context of the changing role of the public sector and
changes in the project environment, it is imperative that restructuring should be a
continuous activity. An exercise should be carried out every year to identify ADP projects
requiring restructuring, and the plan for restructuring should be implemented effectively.
20.   The PRMAC supported the preparation of pruning reports. The proposal was that
the Planning Commission would identify the ADP projects requiring pruning, restructuring
and/or increased allocations, based on a careful review of the costs and benefits of
projects. The findings of such a review would be incorporated formally in a report. The
report would be reviewed at an appropriate level in GOB and the recommendations of the
report would then be implemented. While such reports were prepared for the initial years of
PRMAC, the practice of preparing the report has been discontinued. The Planning
Commission does carry out "rationalization" exercises every year. However, the process
appears to be somewhat ad hoc and are primarily aimed at reallocating funds from slow to
fast moving projects. Rationalization efforts should be carried out more systematically, and
the changing rationale and priority of projects should be reassessed, and restructuring of
projects carried out, whenever warranted. In addition, the outcome of such reviews should
be incorporated formally in the form of pruning reports.
21.  It was agreed under the PRMAC that IMED would carry out special and close
monitoring of selected high priority projects, of national importance. The rationale for
such an arrangement was that the general monitoring of projects by IMED is not sufficiently
intensive. Hence a special format of reporting for nationally important projects had been



- 23 -
agreed with IMED and adopted. Recent discussions, including those at the November 1996
PER Workshop, on the effectiveness of IMED's implementation have stressed the need for
more selective and intensive monitoring by IMED, with reports submitted regularly to the
Prime Minister with recommendations for remedial action.
22.   For many years, IMED has been monitoring ADP expenditures on a monthly basis.
This indicator has been used as a proxy for monitoring overall ADP implementation
performance. However, considerable confusion had been created by the issuance of
alternative estimates of ADP spending by the Finance Division and the reporting of project
aid disbursement by ERD. Another aspect of the problem was the reporting of
exceptionally high spending during the last few months of the fiscal year, which raised
questions about the consistency of definition of ADP expenditure. IMED's estimate of both
taka and project aid spending continues to be referred to as the official estimate of ADP
expenditure. But it is still not clear whether all agencies are reporting ADP spending on a
consistent basis with the IMED definition.
3. Prioritization of Recurrent Expenditures
23.   An important action supported under the PRMAC is a real increase in the
recurrent budget for priority areas, i.e., the social sectors and operations and
maintenance (O&M) in key areas; this has contributed to an improvement in the quality of
public expenditures. Trends in allocations for these areas is shown in Table 2, while trends
in actual expenditure is shown in Table 3. In the primary education sub-sector, recurrent
allocations as well as actual expenditures have been increasing in real terms every year, as
envisaged under PRMAC. However, the share of primary education in the total recurrent
budget has not increased. In primary health, allocations increased rapidly in FY95 but this
growth slowed down in FY96, and declined in FY97. It is important that the allocations for
primary health be enhanced in the revised FY97 budget. Allocations for family planning
increased in real terms in all years during FY95-97, but actual expenditure declined in
FY95.
24.   PRMAC supported an increase in budgetary allocations for the non-wage
component of operations and maintenance (O&M) expenditures in selected areas. This
measure was considered important because of strong pressures for diverting such funds for
meeting wage payments. Table 2 shows that while allocation for non-wage O&M in the road
sector was raised considerably in FY96, it has been reduced appreciably in real terms in
FY97. In the flood control and irrigation sector too, while allocations were raised
appreciably in FY96, they were reduced sharply in FY97.
25.  It is thus clear that increasing trends in allocations and actual expenditures for the
above-mentioned priority sectors are not being sustained from year to year. Given the
importance of the social sectors and O&M activities, the budgetary allocations for FY97
should be reviewed carefully and enhanced in the revised budget. The target in future
should be to reach the share of allocations for these sub-sectors in the total revenue budget



- 24 -
every year, and to ensure timely releases so that actual expenditures do not fall below
budgetary allocations.
Table 2: Allocations for Selected Priority Areas in the Recurrent Budaet
(in crore taka)
FY'94        FY'95        Increase    FY'96    Increase   FY'97    Increase
Revised      Revised     (%)                    (%)                 (%)
Allocation    Allocation
798         856          7.27        940        9.81       998      6.17
Primary Health        312         415          33.01       448        7.95       445      -0.67
Family Planning        43          46           6.98        49        6.52        51       4.08
Non Wage O&M:
Roads                 183         185           1.09       230      24.32        210      1.30
Flood  Control &       85         113          32.94       197      74.34        130    -34.01
Irrigation
Source: Finance Division
Table 3: Actual Spending in Selected Priority Areas in the Recurrent Budget
(in crore taka)
Fy'93       FY'94       Increase      FY'95       Increase      FY'96
Actual      Actual      (%            Actual      (%            Actual
Primary Education        745         807          8.32         850         5.33
Primary Health           340         364          7.06         410        12.64
Family Planning           38          42         10.53           41       -2.38
Non Wage OM
Roads                    186         182         -2.15         190         4.40
Flood Control &           69          78         13.04          87        11.54
Irrigation
*** Not available
Source: Finance Division



-25 -
4. Improving Aid Utilization
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services under Extemally-Financed Projects.
26.   A good beginning was made in 1992 with the issuance of improved GOB guideline
on procurement of goods, works and services under aided projects. Prior to the
preparation of these guidelines, GOB's rules and instructions on procurement matters were
scattered and the new guideline served a very useful purpose of consolidating these
documents and streamlining and updating them. There was an initial setback to the effort
to disseminate these guidelines within GOB as many officials dealing with procurement
matters were not aware of these guidelines even one year after their issuance.
Subsequently, some workshops and training courses were organized to promote familiarity
with the elements of the new guidelines. IMED has taken the lead in this training activity,
which has been financed under IDA's TA-6 Credit. Some 400 officials have already
attended procurement training courses. IMED needs to continue its efforts in organizing
courses in order to cover the personnel of all aided projects and should be provided with
the necessary resources, including TA, if necessary. The total number of officials still
requiring training is estimated at around 3000.
27.   One element of the procurement guidelines is the need for instituting procurement
planning in the executing agencies. Agencies would be expected to prepare a time-bound
procurement plan for all procurement and to carry out their procurement activities in relation
to this plan. IMED has requested such procurement plans from all Ministries so that actual
performance during the year could be evaluated with reference to this plan. However,
many agencies/Ministries have not submitted their procurement plans to IMED, indicating
that procurement planning has not been institutionalized in many agencies
28.   Under the PRMAC it was proposed that IMED should issue monthly reports and that
these should be reviewed at a sufficiently high level in Government to ensure accountability.
It was proposed that the Council Committee on Purchase would review these monthly
reports and intervene in cases of lapses and delays in procurement. However, this
proposal has not been accepted by GOB. Instead IMED's representatives have been
participating in the development review meetings in line Ministries, where procurement
matters are on the agenda of the meeting, but it is not clear whether this forum has been
able to deal effectively with cases of lapses and delays in procurement.
29.   A relevant performance indicator which PRMAC sought to improve is the processing
time of procurement. IMED's recent report for FY96 shows that for a sizable number of
contracts, the processing time still exceeds the limits in the procurement guidelines. It may
be noted that GOB decided that ECNEC would review IMED's procurement monitoring
reports on a quarterly basis. However, given that the time limits on procurement are still not
being compiled with, and since the entire procurement cycle lasts about 3-4 months,
monthly interventions are needed to deal with problems on a timely basis. This objective
will not be met with quarterly ex-post reviews. IMED should therefore consider issuing
monthly computerized reports on procurement processing, based on its continuous inflow of
information from the executing agencies. The proposal for review of IMED's report on a



- 26 -
monthly basis by the Council Committee on Purchase should be reconsidered. At the least,
the most serious cases of lapses and delays should be included in the agenda for the
meeting of the CCP. IMED's procurement monitoring cell should also be strengthened
adequately through full-time staff, computers and logistical support. It is also critical to
institutionalize timely and reliable reporting of procurement information by executing
agencies and Ministries to IMED and to make them fully accountable for lapses in reporting.
Processing and Approval of Technical Assistance Projects and Recruitment of Consultants
30.   The preparation of improved guidelines, one on processing and approval of TA, and
the other on recruitment of consultants, and their issuance in 1992 was supported under
PRMAC. One key element of the former guideline was the enunciation of GOB's TA policy
and a declaration that there would be no official restriction on the use of loan form of
technical assistance. If the search for grants for TA does not lead to the firming up of
grants, within a specified deadline, loan financed TA would be sought for worthwhile
activities.
31.   On the processing and approval of TAPPs, more recently GOB has decided to set a
time limit of three months on TAPP processing, on the total time taken from the stage
when the TAPP is first submitted by the executing agency to the line Ministry to the
approval of the TAPP and ERD's issuance of a TA request. Some information on
processing time within the Planning Commission has been compiled by ERD but this
information is incomplete since the delay could take also take place in the line Ministry prior
to the submission of the TAPP to the Planning Commission. In addition, no effort has been
made in the past to report this information or review progress and problems periodically.
The objective supported under the PRMAC has been to reduce the total time for processing
and approval of TAPPs to three months. In order to achieve this objective, a system should
be established for tracking processing time at each stage of the process, beginning with the
initial submission of the TAPP to the line Ministry and ending with the approval of the TAPP
by the Planning Minister and issuance of TA request to donors.
32.   ERD has initiated actions for setting up a system of computerized compilation of
data on processing time for all unapproved TAPPs. However, progress so far has been
slow and no consolidated data base exists to assess TAPP processing time. ERD should
expedite this process. Instructions should be issued to all executing agencies and
Ministries that information on dates of each stage of the processing/approval should be
automatically reported to the TAPP Monitoring Cell of ERD in an appropriate format. This
information should be computerized and the data base should be updated continuously and
issued as a monitoring report in a suitable format on a monthly basis. These reports should
be distributed and reviewed on a monthly basis at an appropriate level. Based on these
reviews, appropriate interventions should be sought in cases of delays and lapses. Given
that the task involves dealing with TA financed by all donors, the mission suggests that the
TAPP Monitoring Cell be located under the Coordination Branch of ERD.



- 27 -
Investment Project Approvals
33.  In FY91 the Government revised the approval procedures for investment projects
in order to reduce delays and delegate some degree of responsibility to the sectoral
Ministries. A new document, the project concept paper (PCP) was introduced, and this
document would need approval by the ECNEC, for all large projects costing more than Taka
10 crore. The approval of the PP was left to the Planning Commission. Delays in project
processing and approval which was experienced in the past have been reduced with the
introduction of the new system of approval. The problem that has arisen is about the
rationale, quality and priority of many of the approved projects, a problem which has been
highlighted in the Bank's recent Public Expenditure Review, and which has been discussed
at a workshop recently. The challenge now is to devise a system of project identification,
appraisal, and approval based on appropriate public investment criteria, about the changing
role of the state (vis-a-vis the private sector and NGOs) and with sectoral strategies, and
high growth and poverty impact.
Project Level Staffing
34.   A major institutional problem affecting the pace of project implementation is that
Project Directors (PDs) with appropriate background have not always been appointed. In
addition, some PDs have often been assigned to work on a part-time basis, which affected
their ability to deal with project problems on a timely basis. Another problem has also been
a quick turnover of PD and other project personnel, which has disrupted the management of
projects. The Minister of Planning had issued a formal notification to all Ministries urging
them to address the above personnel problems in order to ensure effective management of
projects. The problem appears to have improved somewhat in recent years. Given the
importance of these issues, GOB should review the situation and institute appropriate
measures to ensure efficient project staffing and management. In principle a PD should be
selected on-the understanding that he /she would stay with the project until completion, and
under no circumstances for less than 3 years.
Commodity Aid Utilization
35.   The action supported under PRMAC has been to shift from an administered system
of utilization of commodity aid to a market-based allocation procedure. The problem of
administered allocation through the Ministry of Commerce and the CCIE by earmarking
import entitlements in favor of a pre-determined group of importers, including sector
corporations, was that these entitlements often remained unutilized at the end of the year.
The advantage of a switch to a market-based utilization system is that it has been made
available to importers on a first-come-first served basis. Consequently, utilization of
commodity aid under the latter approach has been much more efficient and faster. This
action appears to have been met for both bilateral and multilateral commodity aid programs.



- 28 -
5. Institutional Strenathenina
36.   A procedure has been introduced to prevent cost overruns by agencies with
cheque-issuing authority. This has resulted in some control over the problem but
reportedly the problem has not been eliminated. The procedure appeared to be quite
sound and it seems that the problem may be simply one of non-compliance. The cases of
overruns should be reviewed and the underlying reasons should be identified. Either a
system of stiff penalties for non-compliance should be introduced or alternative approaches
should be considered.
37.   A Non-Tax Revenue (NTR) Ce/l has been set up under the Budget Wing of the
Finance Division. The key objectives of the NTR Cell are: (i) to monitor the non-tax
revenue performance, through compilation of data on collection of non-tax revenues,
issuance of reports and organizing review meetings periodically and thus contribute inputs
for the estimation of the resource envelope by the Resource Committee; (ii) identify the
constraints on non-tax revenue mobilization and propose measures for raising non-tax
revenues; and (iii) provide the basis for realistic budget estimates of non-tax revenues.
38.   The NTR Cell has been compiling data on non-tax revenue collections but has not
been able to carry out the other intended tasks. Given the importance of non-tax revenues,
which account for 18% of budgetary revenues, it is highly desirable that the NTR Cell be
activated and upgraded through proper staffing and logistical support. In addition, a system
of timely reporting on all sources of non-tax revenues by relevant Ministries/agencies to the
NTR Cell will need to be introduced. GOB will need to reassess the mandate of such a set-
up and identify the capacity gap. Based on such an assessment, a program to develop a
full-fledged NTR Cell will need to be implemented. GOB should assess whether it would
like to seek TA for this purpose or carry out the institutional strengthening and systemic
improvements using its own resources.
Modemizing Budget and Accounting Systems
39.   Reliable accounting information on the composition of budgetary expenditures has
not always been available on a timely basis. In addition, the budgetary structure lacked
transparency and consistency. The budgetary and accounting systems had become
outdated and unable to meet the standards necessary for efficient expenditure monitoring
and control. GOB constituted a Committee on Reforms in Budget and Expenditure Control
(CORBEC) to diagnose the problems of budget and accounting. Based on this review, a
program of Reforms in Budget and Expenditure Control (RIBEC) was launched to
implement the recommendations of the CORBEC. This effort has been implemented under
a technical assistance project supported by ODA in phases.
40.   As a result of this reform effort, the preparation of the budget has been
computerized and the accounts in the offices of 10 of the CAOs are being consolidated.
New accounting codes, accounting manuals, and treasury and financial rules have been
prepared and IT training facility has been developed in the Audit and Accounts Training



- 29 -
Academy. A new system of classification of budgetary expenditures has been developed,
and approved by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). The plan is to introduce this
new classification fully in the next two years. Another vital aspect of the reform is a switch
to an integrated budgetary framework, by setting up Budget Committees in each Ministry,
who would be responsible for preparing both the recurrent and investment components of
the sectoral budget. Progress has been made in this area of reform, though slower than
expected. These reforms will need to continue if more of the priority areas are to be
covered and if adequate capacity is to be developed within GOB.
Intemal Debt Management
41.   The action on improvement of internal debt management supported under PRMAC
consists of two components. The first component was to establish a data base on internal
debt owed to GOB by 49 autonomous bodies. The second part is to update this data base
on a regular basis and to use this data base effectively for monitoring internal debt and
improving debt recovery. The first part of the effort has been completed successfully. As a
result of this exercise, the internal debt position for 49 autonomous bodies up to June 1991
has been established and entered in a computerized internal debt register.
42.   To implement the second part of the reform, the Finance Division is not yet in a
position to use the computerized data base which was developed under a contract with the
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank. The software for the program has not yet been transferred to the
Finance Division as it lacks the required flexibility and variation. Efforts should be made to
resolve this problem as soon as possible and to effectively transfer the data base and
technology to the Finance Division. It would seem that the best location for managing the
internal debt register is the Monitoring Cell, which can provide the Development Wing with
the required inputs for debt management.
Strengthening capacity for public expenditure programming
43.   A technical assistance program, funded by UNDP, was carried out to strengthen
the capacity for public expenditure planning and programming system. This TA was
used primarily by the Programming Division of the Planning Commission, which is
responsible for preparing the public investment program. As a result of this effort, the
capacity of the Programming Division to compile a computerized data base as a basis for
preparing the ADP, TYRIP and list of aidworthy projects has been enhanced. A regional
data base for selected projects/sectors has also been established. Three sectoral
investment strategy review papers were also supported under this TA effort.
44.   The training imparted under this TA program was, however, limited to computer and
data processing skills. No training on methods of expenditure prioritization was provided. In
addition, although it was envisaged under PRMAC that a few Sector Divisions of the
Planning Commission and the Planning Cells in a few line Ministers would be covered under
the TA project, this componernt was not adequately addressed.



- 30 -
45.   Given that prioritization of the ADP and improving the quality of ADP projects is a
high priority for GOB it would be worthwhile to strengthen the capacity of GOB to carry out
this task effectively. The analytical skills of the Programming Division, General Economics
Division as well as Sector Divisions of the Planning Commission and the Planning Cells of
line Ministries should be strengthened through an appropriate program of staff
development, including training and redeployment of staff of appropriate background. If
necessary, donor support could be sought.
6. Audit Reporting Requirement
46.   The audit report on the accounts of the PRMAC for FY95 and FY96 have not yet
been issued to IDA. Under the Credit agreement, a certified copy of the audit report for
each fiscal year needs to be submitted to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year. The audit report for FY95 is thus
overdue. The mission drew ERD's attention to this issue and requested the reports in
question be submitted without further delay. GOB representatives explained that the audit
report had not been submitted as there were no disbursements during this period. They
nevertheless agreed to provide the reports early.
7. GOB's responsibility in ICR preparation
47.  In its discussions, the mission drew attention to GOB's responsibility in ICR
preparation and provided the needed guidance. More specifically, GOB is responsible for
its own final evaluation report on the Credit. This evaluation needs to include: an
assessment of the Credit objectives, design, implementation and operation experience; an
evaluation of GOB's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
Credit, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future, and; an
evaluation of the performance of IDA and the cofinanciers during the evolution and
implementation of the Credit, again with emphasis on lessons learned. GOB's evaluation,
along with a summary, needs to be transmitted to IDA by the end February 1997.
48.   The mission was informed that the task of organizing and completing GOB's
evaluation was being assigned to Dr. Fouzul Kabir Khan, Deputy Director, National Board of
Revenue, who was a member of GOB's negotiating team for the PRMAC.
December 16, 1996
m:\rama\bd\prmacicr.doc



- 31 -
Annex 1
PRMAC Supervision and ICR Mission November 1996
List of Officials Met
Dr. A.K.M. Masihur Rahman, Secretary, Economic Relations Division
Dr. Akbar Ali Khan, Secretary, Finance Division
Dr. Saadat Husain, Chairman, National Board of Revenue
Mr. M. Shahidul Islam, Secretary, IMED, Ministry of Planning
Mr. Nasimuddin Ahmed, Ex-Finance Secretary
Mr. A.K.M. Nazmul Ahsan, Member (Energy),Planning Commission
Mr. K. Iftikher Ahmed, Member, Taxes, National Board of Revenue
Mr. Emdadul Haque, Member (Income Tax Admin),National Board of Revenue
Mr. Mahbub Kabir, Additional Secretary, Economic Relations Division
Mr. Saiful Islam Khan, Member (Exceise & VAT), National Board of Revenue
Mr. Md. Shareefullah, Additional Secretary, Finance Division
Mr. Amir Ali Khan Majlish, Division Chief (Programming),Planning Commiission
Dr. Chowdhury Saleh Ahmed, Director General,Monitoring Cell, Finance Division
Dr. Quazi Mesbahuddin Ahmed, Joint Chief, GED, Planning Comnmission
Mr. Nurun Nabi, Joint Secretary, Finance Division
Dr. Fouzul Kabir Khan, Deputy Director, National Board of Revenue
Mr. Allah Malik Kazmi, General Manager, ECD, Bangladesh Bank
Mr. Subash Chandra Ghosh, Director, IMED, Ministry of Planning
Mr. Md. Shahjahan, Deputy Secretary, Economic Relations Division
Mr. Idris Ali Dewan, Deputy Chief, Economic Relations Division
Mr. Fazlul Karim, Director, IMED, Ministry of Planning
Mr. Pierre Landell-Mills, Chief of Mission, RMB
Dr. Juergen Lewerenz, First Secretary,The Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany
Mr. Mike Frazer,Team Leader/Mr. Rezaul Karim, Dy.Team Leader,RIBEC Phase II
Ms. Gill Wright, First Secretary (AID), The British High Commission
Ms. Rini Reza, Program Manager,UNDP
Mr. Rezaul Karim Khan, Economist, ADB Office



02 JUN '97  18:06   WORLD 3PNK DHAKR 880 2 663220       32
APPENDIX  B
t ~~~~~~~Most -Imumediate. U    
t aMd. Idris Ali DewanJUN 02  1997
f 4x      /             Demuty Chief
Ministry of Finance
Economic Relations Division
t _ |/7    0Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Sher-e-Rangia Nagar
Dhaka-1207
fO..O. No,, ,tJ9v'D\_8yt1:1f96(:a,-t-6)/z7                 Dated.,-Aaw.29+.,199..
Dear Mr. Landell-Mills,
Please refer to the Aide Memoire of PRMAC prepared by the
suppervisic/ICR Mission which visited Bangladesh from November 14-December 2
1996. As inrdi cated about G03's reszonsibility for its own final evaluation
remort on the credit, I an, pleased to send herewith a ccpy the evaluation
retort on the P?.MAC mreoared by GOB for your information and reflect this
in the ICR of t.re credit.
Yoeurs sincerely,
( Md, Idris Ali Dewan )
Mr. Pierre Landell-Mills
Chief of Mission
a1B, The World Bank
3A, Pariba;h, Dhaka.
.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 33 -
Implementing Reforms in a Democratic Environment.
Bangladesh suffered an extraordinary series of adverse shocks in early nineties. These
included the aftermath of the gulf crisis (return of Bangladeshi workers and the loss of exports to
Iraq & Kuwait); devastating cyclone of April 29, 1991 that killed more than a hundred thousand
people and severely damaged Bangladesh's second largest city and principal port, Chittagong; and
large influx of Rohingya refugees along the southern border. In this backdrop in March 1992, the
then Finance Minister, in a development policy letter to the President of the World Bank,
requested for a structural adjustment loan in the amount of US$ 150 million to assist Bangladesh
in the continued implementation of reforms. The reform program outlined in the policy letter
included development of a healthy macroeconomic framework; carrying out tax reform;
prioritizing expenditure; improving aid utilization; and institutional strengthening. The program
was intended to be implemented within a period of three years beginning in 1992. Negotiations
were held in Washington D. C. from March 16-20, 1992 between the representatives of the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and International Development association (IDA). The
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed on May 13, 1992. The Public Resource
Management Adjustment Credit (PRMAC), approved in May 1992, was to disburse in three equal
tranches totaling SDR 109.3 million (US$ 150 million equivalent). The first tranche was made
available on effectiveness of the credit and the second tranche in December 1993, more than a
year later. The closing date of the credit was to be June 30, 1994. The closing date was extended
in three phases up to December 31, 1996. The Government requested the local World Bank
Mission in October, 1996 to release the third tranche of the credit as Bangladesh has done
everything possible within its means to fulfill its obligations under the agreement. The World
Bank, however, decided to allow the third tranche to lapse on the grounds of GOB's inability to
meet some of the conditions for release of the third tranche.
The termination of the PRMAC program after considerable progress and prolonged
discussion raises some important questions about implementation of reform in a democratic
environment. Is the democratic environment not so suitable for difficult reforms? Or is it the faulty
design of the program that is to blame? Or is it the failure of the principal participants, GOB and
IDA, who did not do enough to carry the reform program to a successful conclusion. To answer
these questions, the report is organized as follows: In section 2 credit objectives are assessed and
the political and economic context of the reform is discussed. In section 3, accomplishments of
the PRMAC program are documented. In section 4, the unresolved issues are discussed. The
concluding section provides some lessons for the future.
2.1.  Assessment of the credit objectives
In a conducive macroeconomic environment PRMAC aimed at augmenting generation of
(mainly tax revenue) public resources and optimum utilization of such resources (through
prioritization of both Annual Development Plan (ADP) and recurrent expenditure). This was to be
accompanied by improved aid utilization and some institutional strengthening. The PRMAC
program that was designed on the basis of the World Bank's report "Bangladesh: An Agenda for
Tax Reform", emphasized simple taxation principles like low tax rates (to minimize welfare costs),



- 34 -
movement away from differential sales tax (to avoid cascading effects); and doing away with tax
exemptions (to avoid erosion of the tax base); and use of trade-neutral taxes as the main source of
revenue. On the expenditure side the emphasis was on increasing allocations to sectors like
Education, Health and Family Planning (to correct market failure due to the existence of external
benefits) and improvements in the investment project selection and implementation processes (to
avoid wastes). Finally, the program aimed at securing a balance between the income and
expenditure of the government with provision for deficit financing at an acceptable level. From
Bangladesh's view point most of the above were essential reforms that should have been
undertaken in any case, even if no credit was provided by IDA. From IDA's viewpoint these
reforms formed part of a typical package that is promoted by the Bank in less developed
countries.
2.2. The economic and political context of the reform
It has already been mentioned that the government approached IDA for PRMAC as the
economy experienced a series of adverse shocks. At the political level it was a newly elected
government with a fresh mandate from the people. These two factors contributed to the
successful implementation of the reform program in the early phase of the program. IDA was
keen to portray itself as a sympathetic development partner trying to assist a poor country facing
crisis. The government on the other hand also showed its earnestness in fulfilling the conditions to
secure the credit. The initial success of the reform resulted in an economic upturn and gave rise to
a situation akin to 'winner's curse'. IDA hardened its attitude and started insisting even on minor
and less consequential conditionalities in the agreement and took a very stringent interpretation of
the agreement which emphasized the legal aspects and ignored the economic perspectives. The
government on the other hand found, the remaining reform program to be too difficult to
implement.
3. Accomplishments of the PRMAC.
PRMAC is a front loaded reform program requiring substantial up front actions.
Therefore, without a discussion of the unwritten first tranche release conditions, evaluation of the
reform undertaken under PRMAC will not be complete. The most important among these reform
programs is the introduction of the Value Added Tax (VAT) in 1991-92 budget despite intense
opposition from the business community and the politicians. Other important reforms carried out
before the effectiveness of PRMAC included a drastic reduction of personal income tax rates and
a moderate reduction in the corporate tax rate (see table 1); replacement of the filing threshold by
the conventional exemption limit; replacement of the personal investment allowance by an
investment tax credit. The above tax reforms resulted in increase in the number of higher income
tax assessees. With respect to the investment program the government undertook a pruning
exercise by which potential cost savings in ongoing projects amounting to roughly 20 percent of
projected cost were identified by dropping lower priority projects, reducing unit costs, and
pruning components that were not considered to be of high priority. The government also
undertook the preparation of a three year rolling investment program (TYRIP) to match the
funding requirements with the available resources within a consistent macroeconomic framework.
The government also successfully contained the growth of current expenditure well within the rate



- 35 -
of growth of nominal GDP (see Table 2). The government also achieved real increase in funding
to priority sectors like education, health and family planning, and non wage expenditure on roads,
flood control and irrigation infrastructure (Table 3). The government was also able to reduce
arrears and cost overruns by Government Departments and other agencies with cheque-writing
authority, and undertook budget and accounting reforms.
4. Unresolved issues.
In IDA's view the failure in revenue collection efforts, maintaining a sound
macroeconomic framework, to replace tax holidays with an alternative incentive scheme; and lack
of agreement on VAT exemptions have precluded release of the third tranche of the credit. The
GOB, however, feels that it has done whatever it could to meet the obligations under agreement.
Therefore, IDA should have released the third tranche. This view primarily rests on the
consideration of the context in which GOB's performance should be evaluated. PRMAC provided
for increase in revenue by at least 0.5 percent of GDP in FY 1993-94 budget as one of the
conditions for release of third tranche. In fact, revenue has increased by more than 0. 5 percent in
both FY 1992-93 and FY 1993-94. However, since the credit was delayed IDA insisted upon
similar increase in revenue in FY 1994-95 and FY 1995-96. Although increasing revenue by 0.5
percent of GDP is a desirable goal, achievement of such a goal in each year may be difficult for an
economy like Bangladesh, that is prone to both political upheavals and natural calamities,
adversely affecting economic activity. Therefore, IDA may have looked at the performance over
the program period, instead of insisting on year by year 0. 5 percent growth in revenue. Between
1990-91 to 1994-95 revenue GDP ratio has increased from 9.4 percent to 12.1 percent, which
yields an average growth rate of 0.5 percent of GDP during the period (Table 2). Domestic
financing of deficit which increased modestly did not have much inflationary impact. In fact IDA
Aide-Memoire of 1995 noted that the conditionalities relating to macroeconomic framework
have been complied with. The minor deviation from IDA standards mentioned in the Aide-
Memoire dated December 1996 are due to the unforeseen events, for which release of third
tranche should not have been withheld.
PRMAC also provided for a study on alternative methods of providing tax incentives for
companies to replace tax holidays, and adoption of a time bound plan of action to implement the
recommendations of such study. Three such studies were undertaken. None of the studies
recommended total replacement of tax holidays. Most of these studies recommended modification
of the existing tax holiday scheme by restricting its scope. Despite these, to honor commitments
to IDA a proposal was put up for discontinuation of tax holiday. The business community spoke
in one voice against withdrawal of the facility and persuaded a government facing election
prospects, not to withdraw the tax holiday scheme. From IDA's viewpoint the matter was further
aggravated when tax holiday scheme was extended to expansion units in FY 1996-97 budget. The
accelerated depreciation allowance, alternative to tax holiday, preferred by IDA, although
admissible under rules were chosen by only a few organizations. Tax holiday was preferred mainly
because of the fact that the scheme insulated the taxpayers from predatory activities by the tax
collecting authorities. Rough estimates of loss of revenue due to tax holiday suggest that these
would be around Tk. 35-40 crore annually. But any alternative schemes requiring approval of the



- 36 -
tax officials, under the existing arrangements, would have resulted in additional compliance costs
of considerable size, giving rise to welfare cost. Such costs might have offset the moderate gains
in tax revenue. Given the political compulsion, honest efforts by the government, and little
practical gains from replacement of the tax holiday scheme, IDA could have shown better
understanding of the difficulties in implementing reforms in a democratic environment.
The third unresolved issue is the VAT exemptions. The exemptions include those on yarn
and textiles, biris, bank services and exemptions given in the FY 1995-96 budget. PRMAC
provided for a study to examine alternative taxation regimes for yarn and textiles as the second
tranche release condition. The study recommended introduction of VAT on yarn and textiles.
GOB and IDA differed on the revenue potential of the textile sector. In GOB's view low value
addition in this sector (due to large import components), and large share of small scale handlooms
(that would remain exempt even if the textile sector was brought under VAT) meant that revenue
gains from switching to VAT would be insignificant. In addition, GOB also suggested updating of
recommendation of the earlier report, in view of the sudden increase in cotton prices following
submission of the report. Bangladesh Tariff Commission initiated a number of studies based on
updated data and none of the reports recommended introduction of VAT on textile and yarn
sector. It may be noted that textile items like Bed sheets, Knitted fabrics for mosquito nets,
Towels and other textiles and yam not included in excise schedule are subject to VAT. IDA
appreciated practical difficulties of introduction of VAT on biri and bank services (amply
documented in the relevant literature). Exemptions granted to VAT in 1995-96 budget were so
insignificant, GOB found it surprising that the IDA found it worth mentioning. Not a single VAT
exemption was granted in FY 1996-97. The above discussion shows clear commitment and
actions taken by the government to expand VAT. Both the revenue collection data on VAT and
the expansion the VAT program of (see Table 4 and 5) show that GOB has taken measures that
more than compensate the shortcomings identified by IDA in this area.
It may be worthwhile to comment on the various studies undertaken under the PRMAC.
PRMAC called for several studies to facilitate informed decision on difficult issues. The important
studies undertaken in this regard are: (i) three studies on finding alternatives to tax holiday; (ii)
one study on appropriate taxation of yarn and textiles; (iii) sectoral investment strategy review
papers. These studies were undertaken after the approval of the DCA. Such studies served limited
purpose as both IDA and GOB had made up their minds on the issues earlier. To paraphrase the
IDA Aid Memoire dated November 14 - December 2, 1996, it can be said that the quality and
usefulness of these reports varied considerably. It seems there was rather limited involvement and
ownership of both GOB and IDA in the preparation of these reports, and implementation of their
recommendations.
5. Lessons for the future
a.    Implementation of the desirable objectives of PRMAC, were impaired in some cases by
setting up of various short term targets that were inconsistent with the long term objectives. For
example, the target of achieving 0.5 percent growth in revenue GDP ratio in each year, required
that the single VAT rate had to be retained at a high level, this in turn mitigated against expanding
VAT to all sectors including yarn and textiles.



- 37 -
b.    It is quite common for the donor agencies to impose cross conditionalities i.e.
incorporating conditionality of one reform program into another program. However, there is no
provision for giving the government any credit for other useful reform done independently that
contributes towards achievement of the objectives of a particular reform program. We have
already given examples of such reform carried out by Bangladesh while discussing VAT related
conditionalities. Such an arrangement would have offered greater flexibility in the reform process.
c.    All successful negotiations and implementation of reform program require meeting of
minds. In the course of implementation of PRMAC it became clear that the communication
between IDA and GOB was not always at its best. The present procedure of sending IDA
missions to monitor progress of the program sometimes may not fully succeed in communicating
GOB's efforts and difficulties to IDA management. Depending on the work-style or method of the
Task Manager and/or Mission personnel, IDA often tends to stake narrow legalistic view of the
conditionalities, loosing sight of the ultimate economic goals or objectives and the context within
which they are to be judged. It will serve both IDA and borrowers better if IDA management
could make assessment of the evolving conditions and interpret the reforms scheme in terms of
the objectives and contextual specificity.
d.    Studies related to reform programs may be completed before, to reach an agreement
rather than being used for either deferring actions or citing them for non-compliance of
conditionalities.
e. The lackluster performance on the revenue side of the program highlights the need for
institutional strengthening of tax collecting organizations. This aspect was completely overlooked
in the PRMAC. Except for providing for creation of a Non-Tax Revenue Cell located at the
Finance Division, PRMAC had hardly anything on the institutional development of revenue
collection agencies. The lesson is, without reforming institutions entrusted with the responsibility
of delivering a particular reform target, the prospects for achieving the goals of the reform will
remain elusive.



Table 1: Income Tax Structure in Bangladesh, 1991/92-1996/97
Personal Income Tax
1991 - 92             1992 - 93             1993 - 94             1994 - 95             1995-96              1996-97
Income (US$)   Rate  Income (US$)           Income (US$)          Income (US$)          Income (US$) Rate   Income (US$) Rate
Rate                  Rate                  Rate
Up to I.500     10%                                                                     Up to 1,375    10%' Up to 1,500      Nil
1,501 to 3,000   20%   Up to 1,000    Nil  Up to 1,250      Nil  Up to 1,375      10%   1,376 to 3,250  15%    1,501 to 1,750 15%
3,001 to 4,500   30%   1,001 to 1,500       1,251 to 2,500        1,376 to 3,250        3,251 to 7,250 20%    1,751 to 4,000  20%
4,501 to 6,000   40%   15%                  15%                   15%                   Above 7,250   25%    Above 4,000    25%
Above 6,000    45%    1,501 to 5,250        2,501 to 6,250        3,251 to 7,250
20%                   20%                   20%
Maximum average tax   5,251 to 12,750  40%   Above 6,250    25%   Above 7,250    25%   1/Minimum tax         Maximum tax
liability after       Above 12,750   45%                                                liability US$ 30     liability US$ 30
deciuction of
US$1,000: 1/3 of      Maximum average tax                         1/Minimum tax
taxable income        liability after                             liability US$ 30
deduction of
US$1,000:1/3 of
taxable income                                                  .Goo
Corporate Income Tax
Tax Rates
Company                                                       FY 1991-92 FY 1992-93 FY 1993-94 FY 1994-95 FY 1995-96 FY
1996-97
Industrial companies whose shares are publicly traded            45%         40%         40%         37.5%      35%        35%
Industrial companies whose shares are not publicly traded        50%         45%         45%         42.5%      40%       40%
Banks, Financial Institutions, and other companies                55%         55%         50%        50%        47.5%      45%
Source: Annual Budget Speeches 1992-93, 1993-94, 1994-95, 1995-96, 1996-97



- 39 -
Table 2   Some Fiscal Indicators
(in crore Taka)
Pre- PRMAC                  PRMAC period
1990-91    1991-92  1992-93    1993-94    1994-95
Total revenue                               7822       9517    11060      12280       14210
Tax revenue                                 6383       7741     9030       9880       11110
Non-tax revenue                             1439       1776     2030       2400        3100
Capital revenue                      23.71       8.73      3.0       50.0       53.0
Total public expenditure                   12498      13816    15147       18152     20603
Revenue expenditure                         7228       7792     8597       9169       10300
Annual Development Program (ADP)            5270       6024     6550       8983       10303
Overall budget deficit                      4676       4299     4087       5872       6393
(Annual percentage change)
Total revenue                               15.4       21.7      16.2       11.0       15.7
Tax revenue                                 10.4       21.3      16.7        9.4       12.4
Non-tax revenue                             44.3       23.4      14.3       18.2       29.2
Total public expenditure                     0.3        10.5      9.6       19.8       13.5
Revenue expenditure                          7.2        7.8      10.3        6.7       12.3
Annual Development Program (ADP)             -7.8       14.3      8.7       37.1       14.7
Overall budget deficit                     -17.7       -8.1      -4.9       43.7        8.9
Real GDP                                     3.4        4.2       4.5        4.2        4.4
Nominal GDP                                  13.0        8,6      4.6        9.2       13.6
(As percent of GDP)
Total revenue                                9.4        10.5     11.7       11.9       12.1
Tax revenue                                  7.7        8.5       9.5        9.6        9.5
Non-tax revenue                               1.7       2.0       2.2        2.3        2.6
Total public expenditure                    15.0        15.2     16.0       17.6       17.6
Revenue expenditure                          8.7        8.6       9.1        8.9        8.8
Annual Development Program (ADP)             6.3        6.6       6.9        8.7        8.8
Overall budget deficit                       5.6        4.7       4.3        5.7        5.5
Source: Bangladesh Economic Review, 1996, Ministry of Finance



- 40 -
Table 3: Expenditure on Social Sectors
(in crore Taka)
1990-91   1991-92   1992-93 1 1993-94   1994-95 1 1995-
96
Revenue Expenditure
Education and Religion                       1197       1393      1688       1770     2023    2169
Health and Population                         387        431       517        607      685      730
Youth, Sports and Cultural Affairs              1 8       23        38         43       38       42
Social Services, Welfare and Women's           47         51        54        61        73       79
Affairs       _
Social Sectors Total                         1649       1898     2297       2481      2819    3020
Social Sector expenditure as percentage of     23         24        27        27        27       26
revenue expenditure                     L
ADP Expenditure
Education and Religion                        173        299      528        920      1465    1389
Sports and Culture                             28         16        26        44        61       31
Family Welfare                                310        271      283        408       470      450
Health                                        141        137       206       281       370      315
Social Welfare, Women's Affairs and Youth      31         29        31        43       100      109
Development
Rural Development Institutions                222        319       366       480       684      727
Public Administration                           5          3        30          8       38      131
Manpower and Labor                              5          3         2          4        7        7
Social Sector Total                           915       1077      1472      2188      3195    3159
Total ADP                                    5270       6024     6550       8984    10303   10447
Social Sector expenditure as percentage of    17.4      17.9      22.5       24.4      31.0    30.2
ADP expenditure                         I_-
Source: Bangladesh Economic Review, 1996, Ministry of Finance



- 41 -
Table 4: Expansion of VAT, 1991-97
Year          Sectors added to VAT                                          VAT Exemptions Granted
Import & local stage              Import stage              Local stage      Number of
VAT
Registered.
units.
Chemical fertilizer, Insecticide  Anti-malaria, Anti TB, Anti-    Cotton yarn and
1991-92     (1) All manufacturing except   Fungicide, Pesticides used in    cancer medicines, Insulin,   textile, Cold storage
Natural gas, Biri, Petroleum   agriculture, Educational books,  Antibiotic ,Sera, Toxin and  Ghee, Butter,
products, Bricks excluding     Newspaper ,Journals, dry chili,,  Cardiovascular and other    Cheese, and Jute        9956
refractory & ceramic bricks,   aluminum and plastic kitchenware   medicines, Homeopathic,    cuttings.
Yarn and Textiles, Cigarette,  Bengali type writer machine, Ball   Biochemic and Psychotropic
Bank and Bank services, Gold   point pen, Wooden pencil,       medicine, Anesthetic, Kidney
and gold products,             Packed liquid milk, Mustard oil,    Dialysis machine, All
(2) 24 services, and           Bread, Animal food, Nails, Plastic  contraceptive, and
& Rubber sandal, Agricultural &  water chiller used in industry.
(3) Imports                    household goods made in local
foundry. Hurricane, Oxygen
therapy, Pacemaker and Heart
valve
Nil                Nil                                  Nil
1992-93     (1) Natural gas, Petroleum                                                                                          42,817
products, Bricks, Cigarettes, and
WASA, Insurance Company,
Courier service, Clinic, Beauty
Parlor, Gold and gold products,
and WASA
Nil                                         Nil               Plastic water bonle
1993-94     Bengali typewriter import stage
only                                                                                                                74,710
Nil                             Copra waste, Kerosene cooker,  Travel agency,
1994-95     (1) Services rendered by firms                                  Spray machine used in        Services rendered by
repairing or servicing of any                                   agriculture, Ships with      firms repairing or
taxable products                                                capacity more than 3000      servicing of any       99,431
(2)Provisions were made for                                    DWT                           taxable products
voluntary registration for
wholesale & retail traders
(3) Full coverage of
manufacturing activities
contracted outside
Nil                             Animal food, Transducer,      Plastic basket &
1995-96                                                                     Glands, Vaccine, Cotton      Tiffim box
waste, Dialyzer, Dairy                              117,506
machine. A. V line, Fistula
needle.
Nil                                         Nil                      Nil
1996-97     (1) Wholesale & retail trade of
Bathtub, Jacuzzi, Tiles, Air-
conditioner, Geyser, Microwave
Oven, Compact Disk Player,
Music System, Satellite receiver
and Dish antenna, Motorcar,
Jeep, Station Wagon, Chandelier
and Antics
(2) Consultancy and Supervisory
firms, Lease holders, Audit and
Accounting firms, Shipping
agents                                                                                                          I



- 42 -
Table 5 Collection of VAT, Supplementary & Excise Duty
(Figures in crore)
FY          Total                 VAT                      SD      T  Excise
Import stage   Domestic stage
91-92       3190.52       1269.74         465.53           51.71       1403.54
92-93       3906.98       1731.77         831.96          1012.35      330.90
93-94       4157.02       1713.49         1032.75         1252.81      157.97
94-95       5168.85       2215.23         1248.34         1527.46      177.82
95-96       5867.34       2555.98         1304.72         1823.55      183.09



- 43 -
Table -6: Budget Financing
(in crore Taka)
Year       Net        Net non-bank  Total      Foreign    Total     Total      Total        Total
Borrowing  Borrowing of Domestic  Financing  Financing  Financing  Domestic    Domestic
of    the  the Govt. from  Financing  (net) 2/           as %  of Outstanding  Outstandin
Govt. from  the    public                                GDP   at Debt.          g Debt as
the        (through NSD                                  market                  % of GDP
Banking    certificate)                                  price                   at  market
system     1/                                                                    price
1          2           3         4=(2+3)       5      6=(4+5)       7           8           9
1991-92          Nil      1835.42   1835.42   5290.97   7126.39           7.9    6086.00          6.7
1992-93      296.50       1168.10   1464.60   5620.50   7085.10           7.5    7550.20          8.0
1993-94      759.90       1651.70   2411.60   5183.20   7594.80           7.4    9961.80          9.7
1994-95       -68.00      1122.90   1054.90   5728.50   6783.40           5.8   11016.70          9.4
1995-96     1663.90       1252.30   2916.20   4596.75   7512.95           5.8   13932.90         10.7
I/ Excludes saving certificates held by the banks and include non-bank treasury bills.
2/ Aid disbursement less amortization



I






IMAGING
Report No.:          16667
Type:     ICR



