Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2361 BD 
(Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 13, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2361 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated March 30, 1992, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
improve the management of the Borrower's public resources (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed imports 
and services required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the bank called the Bangladesh Bank established 
by the Borrower's Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 127 of 1972) for 
the purpose of carrying out the business of central banking;
(b)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
343 (1986);
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower; and 
 
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning on July 1 
of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the following calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred nine million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 109,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
Page  3
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
each February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2002 and ending February 15, 2032. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2012 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  4
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary or Additional Secretary or any Joint Secretary, 
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Page  5
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
   Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Abul Ahsan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
 
112
   --
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
   --
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
Page  6
122
   --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   --
Radioactive and associated materials
 
667 
   --
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, 
unworked or worked
718
 718.1
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel 
elements (cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728
 728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897
 897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares 
(including set gems)
971
   --
Gold, nonmonetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates)
 
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; and
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 5,000,000 
for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 may be required by the Association upon the basis 
of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached:
(a)
the equivalent of SDR 36,440,000, unless the Association shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
(ii)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; and
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken; and
(b)
the equivalent of SDR 72,870,000, unless the Association shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
Page  7
(ii)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; and
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have 
been taken or are continuing, as the case may be.
5.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to 
bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade 
and specified in the bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Association; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation comparison of 
quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct 
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used where considered 
appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded commodities 
may be procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Page  8
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds 
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other information required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to this paragraph shall be furnished to the 
Association as part of the evidence required under  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to 
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit 
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may 
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. 
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special 
Account, the documentation and the information to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph (4) (a) (iii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has achieved the targets set forth in its income and expenditure 
estimates approved for Fiscal Year 1991-92 for increases in revenues and control of 
current expenditures, and has approved income and expenditure estimates for Fiscal 
Year 1992-93, including adoption of appropriate measures as may be necessary or 
required in order to meet the following targets in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association:
(a)
increase in revenues by at least 0.5 percent of GDP;
 
(b)
rate of growth of current expenditures not to exceed the rate of growth 
of nominal GDP; and
(c)
increase in the annual development program consistent with the above 
targets.
2.
The Borrower has expanded the coverage of the value-added tax (VAT) to include 
at least natural gas and cigarettes.
3.
The Borrower has initiated a study under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association to examine alternative taxation regimes for yarn and textiles.
4.
The Borrower has:
 
(a)
satisfactorily implemented the plan of action for Fiscal Year 1991-92 
dated February 6, 1992 for improving the administration of the VAT system;
(b)
completed a study on the administrative feasibility of expanding the VAT 
register to include, inter alia, commercial importers and exporters, and wholesalers 
serving manufacturers, and based on the results of such study has adopted a plan of 
action for Fiscal Year 1992-93, satisfactory to the Association, to expand the VAT 
register; and
(c)
adopted a plan of action including a timetable for implementation, 
satisfactory to the Association, for improving the administration of the VAT system 
for Fiscal Year 1992-93.
5.
The Borrower has: (a) limited the exemption of small and cottage industries from 
the VAT to those industries with annual turnover less than the threshold for the 
turnover tax as such threshold may be established from time to time by the Borrower; 
(b) included contractual manufacturing services within the VAT; and (c) refrained from 
Page  9
making any substantive exemptions to the VAT.
6.
The Borrower has:
 
(a)
replaced the current filing threshold for personal income tax with an 
exemption limit, replaced the investment allowance used in the calculation of the 
taxable base for personal income by an investment tax credit, and has introduced 
measures, satisfactory to the Association, to offset the resulting revenue loss if 
any; and
(b)
initiated a study under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association on alternative methods of providing tax incentives for companies to 
replace current tax holidays.
7.
The Borrower has:
 
(a)
expanded the coverage of the self-assessment scheme for personal income 
tax to cover the majority of assessees with income of eighty thousand Takas or less.
(b)
increased the number of registered assessees including increasing the 
proportion of assessees with income above eighty thousand Takas to a level 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
reduced the arrears of outstanding taxes and backlog of disputed payments 
to a level satisfactory to the Association.
8.
The Borrower has prepared a three-year rolling investment program (TYRIP) for 
the period covering Fiscal Year 1992-93 through Fiscal Year 1994-95, including an 
Annual Development Program (ADP) for Fiscal Year 1992-93, which meet the following 
criteria:
(a)
they are based on resource projections consistent with the Borrower's 
macroeconomic framework;
(b)
they include adequate allocations, satisfactory to the Association, for 
high priority projects established by the Borrower; and
(c)
not more than 25 percent of local funds available to the ADP are 
allocated to locally-financed projects and block grants excluding block grants for 
land acquisitions and payment of custom duties and VAT on project-related imports.
9.
The Borrower has completed the preparation of sectoral investment review papers 
for at least three sectors under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association 
for purposes of reviewing implementation performance and strengthening the pipeline of 
priority projects in these sectors.
10.
The Borrower has adopted a plan of action, including a timetable for 
implementation, satisfactory to the Association, for restructuring such projects 
satisfactory to the Association for purposes of reducing costs and improving their 
economic and financial viability.
11.
The Borrower has completed the preparation of a report, satisfactory to the 
Association, identifying projects for pruning, restructuring or increased allocation, 
and has implemented the recommendations of such report in formulating its Fiscal Year 
1992-93 ADP.
12.
The Borrower has established and implemented a monthly monitoring system for 
high priority projects identified by the Borrower in a format satisfactory to the 
Association.
13.
The Borrower has completed a study under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association to identify short-term measures to improve the accuracy and timeliness of 
expenditure estimates for the ADP, and has implemented the measures recommended by 
such study.
14.
The Borrower has, based on adequately documented and monitorable budget 
submissions from the relevant sectoral departments and agencies, provided in its 
Fiscal Year 1992-93 budget real increases in funding, satisfactory to the Association, 
for priority programs in primary education, primary health and family planning, and 
for non-wage expenditures for operations and maintenance of roads and flood control 
and irrigation infrastructure.
Page  10
15.
The Borrower has completed a review of the reduction of arrears and limitations 
on independent cheque-writing authority of government departments, and has adopted a 
plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, to implement the recommendations of 
such review.
16.
The Borrower has established a cell in the Finance Division of its Ministry of 
Finance with a work program, satisfactory to the Association, aimed at monitoring and 
reviewing the performance of non-tax revenues, including fees and charges, under the 
authority of such Division.
17.
The Borrower has issued guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, for the 
procurement of goods, works and services under externally financed projects, and has 
adopted a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, to implement such 
guidelines.
18.
The Borrower has:
 
(a)
established procedures to ensure that requests made by a line agency for 
external funding of technical assistance are reviewed and, if approved, forwarded to 
external donors within a period of three months from the date of such requests; and
(b)
established a monitoring system, satisfactory to the Association, to 
ensure compliance with such time period.
19.
The Borrower has issued revised guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, for 
the preparation and approval of externally financed projects.
20.
The Borrower has established a block allocation in its ADP for Fiscal Year 
1992-93 to cover the cost of land acquisition for projects in the ADP.
21.
The Borrower has completed a review of all ongoing and planned commodity aid 
programs for the purpose of identifying those programs for which market-based 
allocation procedures are  acceptable to the concerned donor.
22.
The Borrower has commenced a program of technical assistance under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association for the design of improvements in budget and 
accounting systems.
23.
The Borrower has commenced a program of technical assistance under terms of 
reference, satisfactory to the Association, to strengthen investment programming for 
the TYRIP.
24.
The Borrower has: (a) made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in 
consolidating and updating its internal debt register for debt service obligations of 
autonomous and semi-autonomous public sector agencies, Bangladesh Railways and the 
Bangladesh Telephone and Telegraph Board; and
(b)
introduced a debt management system for monitoring payments.
 
25.
The Borrower has: (a) established standard on-lending terms, satisfactory to the 
Association, for government loans to autonomous and semi-autonomous public sector 
agencies, Bangladesh Railways and Bangladesh Telephone and Telegraph Board; and
(b)
established a revised schedule of debt-service payments for a selected 
group of such entities referred to in clause (a) of this paragraph 25 satisfactory to 
the Association.
26.
The Borrower has taken steps, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure that 
autonomous and semi-autonomous public sector agencies and Bangladesh Railways and 
Bangladesh Telephone and Telegraph Board pay their internal debt services obligations 
on a cash basis and that they are not permitted to use ADP allocations to cover such 
obligations.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions referred to in paragraph 4 (b) (iii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has achieved the targets set forth in its income and expenditure 
estimates approved for Fiscal Year 1992-93 for increases in revenues and control of 
current expenditures, and has approved income and expenditure estimates for Fiscal 
Year 1993-94, including adoption of appropriate measures as may be necessary or 
Page  11
required in order to meet the following targets in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association:
(a)
increase in revenue by at least 0.5 percent of GDP;
 
(b)
rate of growth of current expenditures not to exceed the rate of growth 
of nominal GDP; and
(c)
increase in the annual development program consistent with the above 
targets.
2.
The Borrower has expanded the coverage of the value-added tax (VAT) to include 
all items currently subject to the excise tax. 
3.
The Borrower has completed the study referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, and, based on the results of such study, has introduced appropriate 
taxation for yarn and textiles satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower has satisfactorily implemented the plans of action referred to in 
paragraphs 4 (b) and 4 (c) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
5.
The Borrower has refrained from making any substantive exemptions to the VAT.
 
6.
The Borrower has completed the study referred to in clause b of paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and has adopted a time-bound plan of action, satisfactory 
to the Association, to implement the recommendations of such study.
7.
The Borrower has made further progress, satisfactory to the Association, on the 
actions set forth in paragraph 7 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
8.
The Borrower has prepared a three-year rolling investment program (TYRIP) for 
the period covering Fiscal Year 1993-94 through Fiscal Year 1996-97, including an ADP 
for Fiscal Year 1993-94, which meet the following criteria:
(a)
they are based on resource projections consistent with the Borrower's 
macroeconomic framework;
(b)
they include adequate allocations, satisfactory to the Association, for 
high priority projects established by the Borrower; and
(c)
not more than 25 percent of local funds available to the ADP are 
allocated to locally-financed projects  and block grants excluding block grants for 
land acquisitions and payment of custom duties and VAT on project related imports.
9.
The Borrower has completed the preparation of sectoral investment review papers 
for three sectors, in addition to those for which such papers have been prepared 
pursuant to paragraph 9 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association for purposes of reviewing implementation performance 
and strengthening the pipeline of priority projects in these sectors.
10.
The Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in implementing 
the plan of action referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
11.
The Borrower has completed the preparation of a report, satisfactory to the 
Association, identifying additional projects for pruning, restructuring or increased 
allocation, and has implemented the recommendations of such report in formulating its 
Fiscal Year 1993-94 ADP.
12.
The Borrower has made available to the relevant sectoral departments and 
agencies the amount of funding as provided pursuant to paragraph 14 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
13.
The Borrower has, based on adequately documented and monitorable budget 
submissions from the relevant sector departments and agencies, provided in its Fiscal 
Year 1993-94 budget real increases, satisfactory to the Association, for priority 
programs in primary education, primary health and family planning, and full funding, 
satisfactory to the Association, in non-wage expenditures for road, flood control and 
irrigation infrastructure.
14.
The Borrower has completed the implementation of the plan of action referred to 
in paragraph 15 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
Page  12
15.
The Borrower has taken steps to make the cell referred to in paragraph 16 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement functional in accordance with the work program referred 
to therein.
16.
The Borrower has completed implementation of the plan of action referred to in 
paragraph 17 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
17.
The Borrower has undertaken and completed a review of the functioning of the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 18 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and, based on 
such review, has adopted measures, if necessary, to ensure that the time period 
referred to therein is complied with.
18.
The Borrower has introduced market-based allocation procedures for the commodity 
aid program identified pursuant to paragraph 21 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
19.
The Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in completing 
the program of technical assistance referred to in paragraph 22 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
20.
The Borrower has:
 
(a)
completed the consolidation and updating of the internal debt register 
referred to in paragraph 24 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(b)
made operational the debt management system referred to in paragraph 24 
(b) of such Schedule.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Program and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  13
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of suchnotice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
