Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2814 
Project Name 
PDPL 2 
Region 
ECA 
Sector 
Multi-sector 
Project ID 
P098548 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF FYR MACEDONIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF FYR MACEDONIA 
Date PID Prepared 
1/18/07 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
1/25/07 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
3/27/07 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement:
 
27.
A
number of factors 
have discouraged growth and job creation in FYR Macedonia. The exchange rate regime has not been 
sufficiently supported by key structural reforms and has thus required tight macroeconomic policies in 
an overly rigid economy. The results have been a disappointing rate of growth and, even a period of 
deflation. Critical rigidities have included the following. An inefficient and opaque judicial system 
obstructs creditor, contract and property rights and has hampered the effectiveness of key government 
agencies and supervisory bodies from enforcing administrative sanctions such as fines, penalties and 
actions to revoke licenses. Inflexible product and labor markets, high payroll taxes, a burdensome 
regulatory environment, and poor corporate and financial sector governance have impeded job and new 
business creation. A poorly functioning bankruptcy regime has hindered firm exit and the secondary 
transformation of ownership. These flaws in the investment climate have been compounded by weak 
public sector governance which further undermines investor sentiment. 
 
2. 
PDPL 1 (approved by the Board in October 2005) has already supported a number of reforms to 
tackle this interconnected agenda and the reforms supported by proposed PDPL 2 reforms are well 
underway.  A comprehensive judicial reform has been launched to firmly establish the rule of law 
including creditor, contract and property rights. After engaging in a critical dialogue with social partners 
regarding an overhaul of the labor law and institutions to introduce more flexibility into FYR 
Macedonian labor markets, a new Labor Law was enacted in July 2005. Reforms aimed at increasing 
competition in the economy have been launched including those that facilitate efficient entry and exit of 
firms as well as reduce the regulatory burden on ongoing business. Banking supervision and governance 
are being strengthened. Finally, reforms initiated under the PSMAC and PSMAL to build a meritocratic, 
rules-based, transparent public sector through the continuation of public administration reforms, health 
care reforms, and decentralization as envisaged under the Ohrid agreement are continuing to be carried 
out. 
 
3. 
Sustained improvements in the investment climate would also require a reduction in perceived 
political and geopolitical risk. The continued implementation of the Ohrid Agreement, continued 
progress toward eventual EU membership, and the successful implementation of a final status 
arrangement in neighboring Kosovo ultimately could prove as important to the investment climate in 
FYR Macedonia as the proposed PDPL reform program. 
 
4. 
The objective of the proposed PDPLs is to promote economic growth and formal sector job 
creation in FYR Macedonia through improving: (i) the investment climate, and (ii) governance and 
Page  2
efficiency of the public sector. The proposed PDPL will also support the Go
vernment’s efforts to carry 
out intensive structural and institutional reforms required for EU accession. 
 
5. 
Proposed objective(s)
 The proposed Programmatic Development Policy Loan (PDPL) would 
aim to support measures to enhance prospects for economic growth and job creation in FYR Macedonia 
through improving: (i) the investment climate, and (ii) governance and efficiency of the public sector.  
The proposed PDPL will also support the Macedonian Government’s efforts to carry out intensive 
structural and institutional reforms required for EU accession. 
 
6. 
The program is divided into two parts.  The first would focus on reforms to improve the 
investment climate.  The second would focus on strengthening the governance and efficiency of the 
public sector. 
 
o
Pllar 1: Improving the investment climate 
·
Judicial reform 
·
Labor market reform 
·
Strengthening financial sector regulation and supervision 
·
Improving the business environment 
 
o
Pillar 2: Strengthening public sector governance  
·
Public administration reform 
·
Health sector reform 
·
Decentralization 
 
7. Preliminary 
description: 
Table 2 Summary of the Proposed PDPL Program
 
Pillar Objective 
Reform Area 
Issues/actions 
Improving the 
Investment Climate 
Judicial Reform 
Reduce backlog and delays in court proceedings  
Improve enforcement of court judgments 
Improve regulatory and implementation framework for bankruptcy cases 
Increase transparency and fairness of administrative agency decisions 
Increase institutional capacity to implement and monitor reforms 
Labor Market 
Reform 
Enhance labor market flexibility 
Strengthening 
Financial Sector 
Regulation and 
Supervision 
Strengthen banking supervision and regulation 
Strengthen compliance of banks with AML and CTF requirements  
Improving the 
Business 
Environment 
Strengthen corporate governance of the enterprise sector 
Adopt a quality-oriented approach to regulatory reforms 
Implement a business-friendly system for business registration 
Enhance the quality of corporate financial reporting 
Strengthening Public 
Sector Governance 
Public 
Administration 
Reform 
Improve institutional arrangements for effective strategic prioritization 
Develop a professional, politically neutral civil service, managed on the basis of 
merit, rather than political loyalty 
Revise salary structures public administration to ensure consistently competitive 
Page  3
yet fiscally sustainable remuneration across required types of human capital 
Improving 
Governance and 
Transparency of 
the Health Sector 
Strengthen HIF Governance and the health policy making environment  
I
mprove budget planning and control, financial management and procurement in 
HIF, MOH and HCIs 
Decentralization 
Adopt a stable and transparent mechanism for financing municipal government  
Reduce municipal arrears  
Adopt plan for f
inancing teachers’ salaries 
Decentralization strategy 
4.    
Environment Aspects :  
The proposed PDPL 2 will not support specific measures which are likely 
to have an effect on the environment, forests or other natural resources of FYR Macedonia and no 
environmental impact assessment will be required for this operation.
 
5.    Tentative financing US$30 million equivalent.
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
30 
 Total 
30 
 
1. Contact point 
Contact: Bruce J. Courtney 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5242 
Fax:  
Email: Bcourtney@worldbank.org
 
