RETURN TO
REPORTS   DESK                             ~~~~~RESTRICTED
REPORTS DESK    FILE COPY                                     Report No. PA-43a
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
GHANA
June 3, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRNC! EBQUIVAL1NTS
US$ 1              NO X.02
NO1           =   US$ 0.98
WEGHTS AND EASURES
I acre        =   0.05 hectare (ha)
1 mile        =   1.61 kilonmeter (kw)
1 pound (lb)  =   453.6 grams (gm)
1 long ton    =   2,240 lb = 1.016 metric ton
1 gallon      =   3.79 Liters
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB  : Agricultural Developmerrt Bank
BHC  : Benzene Hexachloride
CD   : Cocoa Division
CIB  : Cocoa Marketing Board
CI4C  : Cocoa Marketing Conpamy (Ghana) Ltd.
CRIG : Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana
GAM :  Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association
LBA  : Licensed Buying Agent
SSVD : Svollen Shoot Virus Disease



GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......           .......................        i
I. INTRODUCTION .............................................1
II. BACKGROUND        ........................                    * .................  1
A.  General        ....................1..................            I
B.  Agriculture Sector ............................                   2
III. THE COCOA INDUSTRY .......            ...........................         3
A.  Background  ....................................                  3
B.  Producer Price Policies and Subsidies .... .....                  4
C.  Institutions  ..................................                  5
IV. THE PROJECT AREA ....................................                     7
Population and Farm Community .....................                   7
Land Tenure, Land Use and Farm Size    . ..............               7
Credit Facilities .................................                   8
Communications ....................................                   8
V. THE PROJECT .........................................                    8
A.  Description ....... ...............                               8
B.  Field Development ................         ... ....... ...        9
VI. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ...........                   11
A.  Project Costs ......           ...........................       11
B.  Proposed Financing .             ...........................     12
C.  Procurement ..................            .................      13
D.  Disbursement  .................           .................      14
E.  Accounts and Audit ............  . ................              14
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission to Ghana
in October/November 1969, composed of Messrs. A. Denness, P. Th. Grosjean,
J. J. Vieira and D. Murray (Consultant).



-2-
Page No.
VII. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................           15
A.  Organization .................. ..................         15
B.  Credit Arrangements and Terms of Sub-Loans   ......    16
C.  Field Operations ......       ..........................   18
D.  Staffing .,       ..        .......................        19
E.  Marketing Organization ........... .. .............        19
VIII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND GOVERNMENT
REVENUES         ..............................................  20
A.  Yields and Output ...............................          20
B.  Markets and Prices ..............................          21
C. Farmers' Benefits ...............................           22
D.  Government Revenue ..............................          23
IX. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION        . ...........................  23
X. RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................          25
ANNEXES
1. Cocoa Marketing Board, and Cocoa Marketing
2. Technical Aspects of Growing Cocoa in Ghana and in the Project Area
3. Ministry of Agriculture, Organization Chart
4. Cocoa Division, Organization Chart
5. Cocoa Marketing Cooperatives
6. Agricultural Development Bank
7. Phasing of Project Development
8. Project Costs
9. Project Organization Chart
10. Projected Selling Price for Cocoa and Distribution of Proceeds
11. Costs and Returns per Acre, Rehabilitation and Replanting
12. Project Cash Flow and Impact on Government Budget
13. Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
MAP



GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the improvement of the cocoa
production industry in the Eastern Region of Ghana for which an IDA credit
of US$8.5 million equivalent is proposed. The project which is designed
to serve as a pattern for similar activities in other areas of the country,
would be the Bank Group's first purely agricultural lending operation in
Ghana. In 1969 an IDA Credit of US$1.5 million equivalent was made to
Ghana for on-lending through the Agricultural Development Bank for the con-
struction of 40 purse seine fishing trawlers; this project is progressing
satisfactorily. Cocoa accounts for about two-thirds - US$211 million in
1968 - of Ghana's total exports, and the average annual total production of
about 400,000 tons over the period 1960-69 represented about 30% of total
world production. Effective government policies and satisfactory producer
prices during the 1950's encouraged cocoa production, which in 1964 total-
led 568,000 tons. However, unsound government decisions taken in the early
1960's, affecting producer prices, marketing, use of price stabilization
funds, and cocoa extension services, proved detrimental to the cocoa indus-
try. Producer price decreased from US 12 cents/lb in 1959 to US 6.7 cents/
lb in 1965. Farms were neglected, the consumption of pesticides fell, and
new plantings were curtailed. Ghana's ability to raise resources for de-
velopment is critically dependent upon cocoa exports, and satisfactory pro-
duction levels must be maintained by the proper care of existing planta-
tions and the replanting of old cocoa farms producing sub-economic yields,
and following a change in Government in 1966 steps have been taken by Gov-
ernment to resuscitate the industry.
ii.       The project involves the on-lending of US$8.5 million equivalent,
through the Agricultural Development Bank, to project farmers for the re-
habilitation of 51,000 acres of standing cocoa and the replanting of 36,000
acres with high-yielding varieties. All project farmers would be members
of marketing cooperatives through which loan repayments would be secured.
The project would also provide an improved cocoa extension service, farmer
training, feeder road improvement, and the establishment of 15 cocoa mar-
keting cooperatives.
iii.      For rehabilitating cocoa, project farmers would receive loans
of up to NO 54/acre at 8% interest to be repaid over four years. Average
yields would increase from 150 lb/acre to 500 lblacre in four years as a
result of rehabilitation, and farmers' net incomes per acre would be in-
creased by about No 22/annum. For replanting, loans of up to NO 172/acre
would be made and would be repaid at 8% interest over 13 years. Farmers'
annual net cash incomes in the period following loan repayment would be
about NO 65/acre and would compare with about NO 20/acre on existing farms.
Total incremental cocoa production at maturity would be about 19,000 tons/
annum, which would earn about US$11 million in foreign exchange, at pro-
jected world prices.



- ii -
iv.       Project costs are estimated at US$15.6 million equivalent.  The
proposed credit of US$8.5 million would finance 55% of project costs, cov-
ering the foreign exchange costs which are estimated at US$4.7 million, and
33% of local currencv costs. To help finance the project, Government would
obtain loans of US$1.47 million equivalent (NO 1.5 million) each from Ghana
Commercial Bank, Barclays Bank D.C.O. and Standard Bank of West Africa.
Terms of these loans would be 6-1/2% interest, and a 15-year repayment
period including seven years' grace. Where practical, project procurement
would be by international competitive bidding; goods and services obtained
in this way would have an estimated value of US$1.5 million. Local competi-
tive bidding would be used to obtain goods and services with a total value
of about US$2.4 million.
v.        The project would be implemented by a project development unit
established especially for the purpose within the Ministry of Agriculture,
and whibh would maintain separate project accounts. A project steering
committee would be appointed to coordinate the work of other agencies con-
cerned with the project and to oversee project progress.
vi.       The project would make a significant contribution to Ghana's
foreign exchange earnings, would strengthen the cocoa industry, improve
the incomes of some 5,000 participating farmers, and help develop the Agri-
cultural Development Bank. Based on the current forecast range of long-
term cocoa prices, the estimated rate of return from investment in the pro-
ject is estimated at 26%. A sensitivity analysis shows that if prices
were to fall to the lowest level of the predicted range and yields were re-
duced by 25%, the return would be 15%.



GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Ghana Government has requested an IDA credit to assist in
financing the Eastern Region Cocoa Project - a project for rehabilitating
the cocoa industry in the Eastern Region and designed to serve as a pat-
tern for similar activities in other areas of the country.
1.02      The project which is the subject of this report would assist far-
mers by providing credit for the rehabilitation of existing cocoa, and for
the replanting of old cocoa areas with improved high-yielding cocoa varie-
ties. The project would also include the improvement of farmer training
facilities, the establishment and strengthening of cooperative societies,
and improvement of the feeder road system within the project area.
1.03      The project was prepared by Government with assistance from the
Bank's Permanent Mission to Western Africa (PMWA), staff of which made sev-
eral visits to Ghana during project preparation. A Bank pre-appraisal mis-
sion visited the project area in February 1969. This report is based on
the findings of a Bank appraisal mission, composed of Messrs. A. Denness,
P. Th. Grosjean, J. J. Vieira, and D. Murray (Consultant) which visited
Ghana in October/November 1969.
1.04      In October 1969, IDA approved a credit for US$1.5 million to
Ghana for the construction of fishing trawlers, the Bank Group's first
operation in the agriculture sector of Ghana. The present project would be
the Bank Group's first purely agricultural lending operation in the country.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ghana is centrally situated on the Gulf of Guinea on Africa's
west coast. The country, extending some 420 miles from north to south,
and 335 miles from east to west, has a total area of about 92,000 sq
miles. Almost two-thirds of the total population of about 8.4 million
live in the southern rain forest area, which is the center of the cocoa
and timber industries.
2.02      Government has estimated population growth at between 2.5% and
3.0% annually, but some authorities anticipate that this could shortly
increase to as much as 3.3%. The movement of labor especially young
males from farming areas, to urban centers has been pronounced, and dur-
ing the period 1950-1968, the proportion of the labor force employed in



- 2 -
agriculture fell from 80% to 60%. This movement of labor has reduced
the availability of labor for cocoa farms, and since industrial develop-
ment has been limited, has contributed to a serious degree of urban un-
employment. Action is urgently required to halt, and if possible, re-
verse the trend.
2.03      In 1968, GNP at current market prices totalled US$1,994 million
equivalent and of this agriculture accounted for about 50%. In the same
year, per capita GNP amounted to US$238. However, at constant prices per
capita, GNP has been declining since 1964, since real growth of the economy
has not kept pace with the increase of population.
2.04      Total exports of domestic produce in 1968 were valued at US$327.4
million equivalent. the cocoa industrv alone accounting for US$210.7 mil-
lion or 65% made up as follows: cocoa beans 56%, cocoa butter 7%, and cocoa
paste, cake and powder 2%. Non-cocoa agriculture and forestry accounted
for approximately US$33 million equivalent, or about 10% of total exports.
Of these, timber, in various forms, represented 8%, coffee 1%, and a variety
of minor products about 1%.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.06      General - Although cocoa production dominates the agricultural
sector, food production on smallholdings for local consumption is the live-
lihood of 60% of the rural population. Irrigation, small in extent, is
limited to the north; farm implements are rudimentary; fertilizer consump-
tion is low; and pesticides are rarely used except on cocoa. Current low
yields per acre must be increased by improving the availability of modern
inputs and agricultural credit.
2.07      Increasing amounts of food stuffs are imported annually, and in
recent years, 1963-1968, expenditures on these and other farm-produced im-
ports increased at an average rate of 6.8% per annum. Many of these, in-
cluding rice, sugar, cotton, hard fibres, meat, dairy products and fats
and oils could be produced locally, although so far the Government has
taken no more than preliminary steps in this direction. The relatively
advanced nature of the cocoa industry has made possible the preparation
of a project suitable for consideration by IDA. While no project has been
proposed as yet, it is expected that future Bank Group assistance would
also be extended to import substitution crops.



-3-
III. THE COCOA INDUSTRY
A. Background
3.01      In the period 1939 through 1959, Ghana's cocoa production ranged
between 200,000 and 250,000 tons annually. In the 1960's production began
to climb rapidly culminating in a 1964/65 season crop of 568,032 tons.
This growth reflected both the sound producer price policies of the state-
owned monopoly, the Cocoa Marketing Board (CMB), which resulted in a sub-
stantial expansion of cocoa acreage in the 1950's, and Government measures
to improve the control of cocoa pests and diseases. Since 1964/65, how-
ever, the crop has declined and in recent years has averaged about 400,000
tons annually. The decline resulted principally from Government decisions
taken in the early 1960's to:
(a) utilize funds accumulated by CMB for price stabilization
for non-cocoa purposes;
(b) steadily reduce producer prices in line with falling
world prices and in the absence of support funds;
(c) establish a new system of cocoa marketing; and
(d) disband, for all practical purposes, the Ministry
of Agriculture's cocoa extension and disease control
services.
The changes made are described further in Annex 1. They resulted in the
curtailment of new plantings through inadequate producer prices - these
fell from US 12 cents/lb in 1959 to US 6.7 cents/lb in 1965; the neglect
of farm upkeep for the same reason; and a resurgence of pest and disease
attack - the consumption of cocoa pesticides fell from a peak of 312,000
gallons in 1962 to 27,000 gallons in 1966. Following a change of Govern-
ment in 1966, steps have been taken to resuscitate the industry, but pro-
gress has been slow and has been inhibited both by Ghana's weak financial
situation and the major task involved in rebuilding the industry's insti-
tutions. Significantly, however, the producer price for cocoa has been
increased and is now at US 13 cents/lb, slightly above the 1959 level.
3.02      While improvements are occurring, Ghana's cocoa industry is in a
serious situation. Capsid pests and to a lesser extent virus diseases 1/
are seriously reducing yields, and the output of older farms is declining
and tending to outweigh that of new or replanted farms. The scope for new
1/   Annex 2 contains details of the technical aspects of cocoa growing.



-4-
planting is very limited as over the years the land most suited to cocoa has
been planted, and an estimated 4.5 million acres are under the crop at the
present time. With the deterioretion of the industry, although Ghana remains
the world's largest single producer of cocoa, its share of world cocoa pro-
duction has declined from about 37% in the early 1960's to about 30% today.
Since Ghana's ability to raise resources for development is critically
dependent upon cocoa exports, the decline in production must be reversed
to allow the country to maintain its share of the supply of world cocoa
demand which, over the past decade, has been increasing at an average rate
of 4.5% per annum.
3.03      While this decline in Ghana's production has contributed to high
world prices in recent years - prices reached nearly US 50 cents/lb cif
New York in November 1969, these high prices do not compensate the basic
weakness of the industry. First, much of the benefit of high prices goes
to speculators in the cocoa future markets; second, high prices inhibit
consumption in a world market capable of much expansion; and third, high
prices encourage the development and use of cocoa substitutes. Consequently.
it is in Ghana's interest to improve the production and productivity of its
cocoa farms to levels where their operators receive adequate incomes when
world prices are at levels which encourage the increasing consumption of
cocoa. Such world prices probably are in the range of US 25 to 35 cents/lb.
3.04      Ghana has recognized the need for strengthening its cocoa in-
dustry, and the subject of this report, the Eastern Region Cocoa Project,
is a first significant step towards this end.
B. Producer Price and Other Production Incentives
3.05      The ordinance which established CMB in 1947 permitted it to fix
producer prices for cocoa, to accumulate operating surpluses, to use the
latter to support producer prices at times of low world prices, and to fi-
nance other assistance to cocoa growers, see Annex 1. The Board's price
stabilization reserve account amounted to some NC 90 million in 1957, but
these funds and others that accrued subsequently were used by the Govern-
ment for non-cocoa purposes.
3.06      In 1965, new legislation prohibited CMB from accumulating re-
serves and required it to transfer operating surpluses to the Government.
Thus, from 1957 CMB has lacked the capacity either to support prices or
to dictate the use of its surpluses for supporting the industry in other
ways. The Board's authority to fix producer prices in advance of each
crop season has been retained however, and the operating surpluses that
the board budgets together with the very heavy export duties levied on
cocoa, result in Government retaining a substantial share of the revenues
earned by the industry.
3.07      Annex 3 shows that under present producer price and export duty
policies, net revenues to Government would amount to about NO 200/ton of



-5-
cocoa if a median price in the Bank's forecast long-term range of cocoa
prices (of US 27 cents/lb, US$605/ton equivalent cif New York) were ob-
tained, see para 8.08. As is shown in paras 8.10 and 8.11, the resulting
producer price of NO 298/ton (NO 8 per 60 lb head load), which is the cur-
rent producer price, is probably an adequate incentive to the efficient
cocoa farmer. Nonetheless, the retention by Government of such a large
proportion of crop sales proceeds (NO 80 million annually if the crop re-
mains at 400,000 tons) is justifiable only in the light of Ghana's present
overall difficult economic and financial position, and if the Government
is prepared to actively help farmers to achieve the levels of productivity
required to make cocoa growing a profitable and rewarding occupation.
3.08       One of the steps the Government has taken in the latter direc-
tion, is the sale at less than cost to farmers of capsid insecticides and
the sprayers to apply these. This scheme has been in operation for sev-
eral years, and has operated successfully except when Government has ar-
bitrarily restricted the supply of insecticides and sprayers as it did,
for example, in 1964 and 1965.
3.09      Government's intention is to continue to operate and to expand
these schemes, and for the purposes of this report, it is assumed that
project participants would benefit from them. During negotiations, as-
surances were obtained from the Government that IDA would be informed of
any proposed changes in the capsid insecticide, sprayer, and fertilizer
subsidy schemes, and that these changes would not be made without prior
discussion with IDA.
C. Institutions
3.10      The Cocoa Division (CD) of the Ministry of Agriculture is respons-
ible for all cocoa extension work in Ghana and for the control of Swollen
Shoot Virus Disease (SSVD); for organization charts of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and the Cocoa Division see Annexes 3 and 4. In addition to its main
task of regularly surveying all cocoa areas for SSVD, and implementing man-
datory control measures 1/, the Division maintains a training school for
junior staff and farmers, workshops for repairing farmers' spraying machines,
and high-yielding variety seed gardens. The CD currently has a shortage of
junior staff. However, over 1,000 trainees graduated from the Division's
training school during 1969, and a further 500 will be trained in 1970 which
will bring the Division up to strength and allow it to operate effectively.
3.11      Cocoa Marketing Cooperatives have existed in Ghana since 1928,
and have proved generally successful. The basic unit of the cooperative
system is the primary society which operates at village level. The apex
1/ See Annex 2.



- 6 -
organization is the Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association. It is Gov-
ernment policy that the cooperative movement should be assisted and en-
couraged to expand in the agricultural sector. Further details on Coop-
eratives are given in Annex 5.
3.12      Cocoa Marketing Board - The Cocoa Marketing Board (CMB) directly
purchases about 40% of all cocoa production, through its subsidiary Produce
Buying Company and employs Licensed Buying Agents (LBA) to purchase the re-
mainder. One LBA is the Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association Ltd. which
purchases about 30% of the country's total production from associated pri-
mary cooperative societies. Farmers are paid a minimum price for cocoa
which is fixed by Government in consultation with CMB. The present price
is NO 8 per 60 lb of cocoa (US13.3 cents/lb), which is equivalent to
NO 298.64 (US$292.67) per long ton. LBA's receive a fixed allowance from
CMB of NO 38.66/ton (US$37.89) to cover bagging, handling, and storage,
overheads and profit. Details of LBA functions are given in Annex 1.
Overseas marketing of cocoa is carried out by the (CMC), a subsidiary of
CMB with headquarters in Accra. CMB has offices and representatives in
London and New York and all sales are made by private treaty at the most
favorable world market prices obtainable.
3.13      The main source of agricultural credit in Ghana is the Agricultur-
al Development Bank (ADB), established in 1965 to provide credit facilities
for the development and modernization of agriculture and allied industries.
Details of ADB are given in Annex 6. In the past, loan appraisal has not
been of a sufficiently high standard, but the situation is improving as more
suitably qualified staff are recruited.
3.14      The performance of ADB in debt recovery can be considered satis-
factory when account is taken of the political situation ruling when it was
created; under this, it was required to make, or take over, loans which
today it would reject. On August 31, 1969, the amount overdue on loans
made by the ADB head office, represented 33% of the total amount disbursed
under these loans. Loan recovery rates could be improved if more effective
supervision was provided by ADB's loan officers, and if an improved report-
ing system was introduced to allow tighter control and follow-up on each
individual loan. ADB's manager, aware of this situation, intends to in-
troduce new procedures, which should improve the debt recovery system.
3.15      ADB is the lending medium for IDA Credit 163-GH.  The project,
costing US$2.3 million, is providing credit to fishermen for the construc-
tion of 40 medium sized purse seine fishing vessels. IDA's contribution
of US$1.3 million covers the foreign exchange component of vessel construc-
tion and is being made available, together with the Government's contribu-
tion to eligible borrowers through ADB.



IV. THE PROJECT AREA
4.01      The project area comprises the central zone of the Eastern Region
(see Map) and totals about 146,000 acres of cocoa, food crops and natural
bush. Koforidua, the administrative center of the Region, is situated just
to the north of the project area.
4.02      Climatic and soil conditions are well suited to cocoa production,
and after its introduction in 1879, a thriving cocoa industry developed and
commerce expanded throughout the area. During the early 1930's swollen
shoot virus disease (SSVD) and capsids appeared as major pests. Neither
could be controlled at that time, and by 1950, cocoa in the area had become
completely devastated and production had substantially declined. Realizing
the seriousness of the situation, Government, through the Cocoa Division,
initiated and supported cocoa rehabilitation throughout the area in the
1950's. In 1962, the Nkrumah Government dissolved the Cocoa Division, and
in the project area rehabilitation came to an abrupt halt, although improve-
ment programs were subsequently restarted on a small scale in 1966. Annex
2 gives details of cocoa cultivation in the area, and the improved tech-
niques that would be introduced under the project.
4.03      Population and Farm Community - The area's total population is
about 91,000 and there are about 5,000 cocoa farm operators, of which about
half are over 55 years of age. This makes it essential for sufficient in-
centives to be provided for young people to remain in the area. One incen-
tive ought to be the payment of attractive wages for farm labor but the
ability to do so is restricted by the low productivity of cocoa farms.
About 2,000 seasonal laborers, mainly from Northern Ghana and Togo, are
employed in the project area, but Government's recent mass eviction of non-
nationals probably has reduced this supply.
4.04      Land Tenure, Land Use and Farm Size - About 36% of farms are the
bona fide property of their occupants, and have been acquired through out-
right purchase. The bulk of the remainder have been acquired by matrilineal
inheritance and are held by usufruct rights according to native law. Ab-
sentee landlords are common and in such cases the farms are operated by farm
managers who commonly receive two-thirds of farm output as payment. This
system works satisfactorily.
4.05      Surveys carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture show that the
146,000 acres of the project area utilized as follows:
Cocoa          Bush            Food Farms     Townships      Total
55,858        71,330             15,500          3,312      146,000
A soil survey of the project area also made by the Ministry shows that of
the 71,330 acres of bush about 48,860 acres are on soils suitable for
cocoa.



- 8 -
4.06      Most farmers own more than one plot of cocoa and the size of
these varies from 0.3 acres to over 100 acres with about 70% of the plots
measuring from 0.3 to 5 acres. The smaller plots have resulted from frag-
mentation of larger farms in the course of their inheritance. There are
about 15,700 separate cocoa plots in the project area but it is not
possible, since records do not exist, to establish the total area of
cocoa maintained by the average farmer. Detailed surveys of parts of
the project area indicate, however, that about half the farmers maintain
a total of less than 5 acres.
4.07      Credit Facilities - The only sources of credit to farmers in the
project area are LBA which sometimes extend short-term credit to farmers on
the security of their crop, and local moneylenders who generally charge
usurious rates of interest. Medium and long-term credit facilities are not
generally available for either the rehabilitation of existing cocoa, or for
the planting of new farms and the replanting of senescent farms.
4.08      Communications - The project area is well served by major and
minor roads; and the railway line from Accra to Kumasi traverses the proj-
ect area and is used for the evacuation of cocoa. However, because of the
financial problems which Ghana has had to face, especially the shortage of
foreign exchange for the purchase of heavy earth-moving equipment and
spares, road maintenance has been seriously neglected in recent years and
the evacuation of cocoa is seriously impeded in the wet seasons.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Description
5.01      The project would be a first stage of a national program to re-
habilitate Ghana's cocoa industry and would be carried out over a five-
year investment period. The project would involve:
(a) rehabilitation of up to 51,000 acres of existing and
low-yielding cocoa by controlling capsids, replanting
vacancies and improving farm maintenance, and replant-
ing of 36,000 acres on which cocoa had died out, or
where it yields at sub-economic levels, with improved
high-yielding cocoa varieties. These programs would
be carried out through the provision of credit to
cocoa farmers for the hire of labor and for the
purchase of spraying machines, pesticides, fertilizers,
and improved planting materials;
(b) training farmers in modern cocoa production techniques;



(c)  improvement of cocoa marketing cooperatives through the
provision of technical assistance, and the establish-
ment of fifteen new cooperatives;
(d)  establishment of a project administration within the
Ministry of Agriculture to plan and manage the
project; and
(e)  improvement of some 100 miles of feeder roads in the
project area.
5.02      Credit needs of the project would be channelled through the ADB
and the marketing of cocoa would be handled by the CMB and the Ghana Coopera-
tive Marketing Association acting through primary cocoa marketing societies.
The Public Works Department (PWD) would be responsible for the improvement
of project area roads.
B. Field Development
5.03      The project would be phased as follows:
1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 Total
Project Year                1         2        3         4        5
Rehabilitation (acres)   4,080    20,400   20,400    6,120        -     51,000
Replanting (acres)          -        3,600   10,800   13,500   8,100   36,000
Rehabilitation and replanting would be phased to coincide with the establish-
ment of cooperative societies, organization of farmer groups and the develop-
ment of the project authority. Thus Year 1 would be devoted largely to the
construction of project buildings and facilities, the purchase of equipment,
and the establishment of cocoa seedling nurseries for the plantings planned
for Year 2. The rehabilitation component of the project would be completed
in Year 4. Further details of phasing are given in Annex 7.
5.04      Rehabilitation - Participants in the rehabilitation scheme would
be eligible for credits for capsid control and fertilizers, and for replant-
ing gaps in their farms where the cocoa has died out. In the case of capsid
control, credits would be provided in the form of a sprayer and the insecti-
cides needed for two years, after which the farmer would be able to finance
these activities out of current receipts. A limited volume of cash credits
would be provided in these two years for the hire of labor where a farmer
could show a shortage of family labor would be a constraint. Capsid control
usually would involve four sprayings annually with "Gammalin" a proprietary
benzene hexachloride insecticide, but in areas where resistance to this in-
secticide has developed, a carbamate insecticide would be supplied to farm-



- 10 -
ers. Farmers who could show that their cocoa was yielding in excess of 600
lb/acre, the probable minimum level at which it is economic to apply fertil-
izers under Ghanaian conditions, would be encouraged to obtain fertilizers
on credit; and it is anticipated that about 20% of participants would do so
in the project development period. All cocoa farms are characterized by
small areas where the cocoa has died out, and credits in the form of hybrid
seedlings would be supplied to farmers wishing to replant such areas. For
project cost estimates it is assumed that the equivalent of 15% of the total
area to be rehabilitated would be supplied in this way.
5.05      Replanting - Under the replanting scheme, participating farmers
would receive credits for crop establishment and subsequent capsid control
and fertilizers. Credits would be provided in the form of cocoa seedlings,
which would be produced on centralized project nurseries maintained by the
project authority; plantain suckers and yam tubers which would be planted
to provide temporary shade during the cocoa establishment period, and cash
for part of the labor needed for farm development and maintenance until
plantings are four years' old. For capsid control, credits would be in the
form of sprayers and insecticide. Fertilizers would be supplied for appli-
cation in the fourth year only. Thereafter, farmers would be able to obtain
seasonal credits for fertilizer through the Agricultural Development Bank
which would make arrangements for this.
5.06      Farmer Training - The Cocoa Division already provides some training
for cocoa farmers. They attend a one-week course at the Division's school,
and receive training in capsid control and the care of spraying machines.
Financial restrictions limit farmer intake and consequently NE 60 thousand
(US$59 thousand) would be provided under the project to meet the part of the
costs of a weekly intake of about 30 project farmers throughout the project
development period.
5.07      Cooperative Societies - Membership in a cocoa marketing cooper-
ative society would be a prerequisite of participation in both rehabilita-
tion and replanting schemes, since project participants would commit them-
selves to marketing all their cocoa through this society and would author-
ize credit repayments to be withheld from the sales proceeds of their
cocoa crop. In addition to the nine societies now existing in the project
area, 15 new societies would be established. Because some project parti-
cipants do not already own cocoa some of the new societies would lack the
funds to operate under the project, until their members produced more than
100 tons of cocoa annually. Initially, such new cooperatives would receive
a grant of up to NO 750 annually over a period of five years to help pay
the wages and allowances of a secretary and provide for some casual labor
needed for cocoa handling.
5.08      Project Administration - While the Cocoa Division is responsible
for all cocoa extension work, it is not sufficiently well equipped in terms
of staff and experience to carry out the project efficiently. In order to



- 11 -
ensure that the project would receive the proper attention, a project develop-
ment unit would be established within the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Project Director would report directly to its Principal Secretary. The
project would provide funds to finance the capital costs of establishing the
development unit which would include, among others, buildings, transportation,
operating costs during the project development period, and the employment of
expatriate staff in the posts of Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager, and
Financial Controller, should this prove necessary.
5.09      Feeder Road Improvement - Resurfacing of about 100 miles of feeder
roads is required in the project area to carry out the project and the
evacuation of the cocoa efficiently. The project would provide earth-mov-
ing equipment and funds required for the resurfacing of about 100 miles of
gravel feeder road by the PWD. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that a program of feeder road improvement would be agreed annually
between the project authority and PWD, and that equipment purchased under
the project would not be used outside the project area during the project
development period without prior approval of IDA, and that thereafter suf-
ficient equipment would be retained and sufficient funds would be made
available by the Government to maintain project area roads to a satisfactory
standard.
VI. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
6.01      Estimated project costs total NO 15.90 million (US$15.59 million)
of which the foreign exchange component is about NO 4.8 million (US$4.7 mil-
lion) or 30%. The breakdown of costs is given in detail in Annex 8 and sum-
marized in the following table:
6.02      Administration and supervision expenses account for about 38% of
total costs. These expenses during the development period are as essential
as inputs of materials and equipment in the creation or recreation of as-
sets producing benefits over a long period. They are therefore included as
capital costs.



- 12 -
SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
...Ne(m~illionsT ...   .... US$(millions) .
On-farm Costs
New planting          4.27    1.13    5.40    4.18    1.11    5.29        21
Rehabilitation        1.44    1.07    2.51    1.41    1.05    2.46        43
Sub-total        5.71    2.20    7.91    5.59    2.16    7.75        28
Buildings and
vehicles            0.42    0.58    1.00    0.41    0.57    0.98        58
Administration
operation and
maintenance costs  0.42    0.19    0.61    0.41    0.19    0.60         32
Administration
staff costs         3.75    1.06    4.81    3.68    1.04    4.72        22
Feeder road
improvement         0.05    0.36    0.41    0.05    0.35    0.40        88
Contingencies 1/      0.75    0.41    1.16    0.74    0.40    1.14
Total           11.10    4.80   15.90   10.88    4.71   15.59        30
1/   10% on all costs except hired labor.
6.03      Project costs are free of import duties since goods for Government
use are imported duty free by the Ghana Supply Commission, and exclude farm
family labor to which a cash cost is not attributed. Costs are based on Gov-
ernment salary and wage scales, up-to-date building costs, recent quotations
given by suppliers of vehicles and materials, and farm labor requirements col-
lated over the years by a number of organizations.
B. Proposed Financing
6.04      An IDA credit of US$8.50 million (NO 8.67 million) would be made
to the Government and the project would be financed as follows:
NO Million     US$ Million        Z
Government of Ghana                     2.73             2.68         17.2
Local Commercial Banks                  4.50             4.41         28.3
IDA Credit                              8.67             8.50         54.5
Total                  15.90            15.59        100.0



- 13 -
The proposed credit of US$8.50 million would be 55% of the total cost of
the project. US$4.8 million, or 56% of the credit, would cover the esti-
mated foreign exchange costs of the project. The balance of US$3.7 mil-
lion, or 44% of the credit, would finance 33% of local currency costs.
The size of the IDA contribution would be adequate to ensure the satis-
factory organization and execution of the project. The Government con-
tribution of US$2.68 million would be made from budgetary sources. Dur-
ing negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that all funds
needed for the project would be made available in advance and in block form,
on the basis of quarterly estimates prepared by the project manager.
6.05      Three local banks, Ghana Commercial Bank, Barclays Bank D.C.0.,
and Standard Bank of Western Africa will each lend to the Government US$1.47
million equivalent in Ghanaian currency. These three loans totalling
US$4.41 million equivalent (NO 4.50 million) would bear interest of 1%
higher than the Bank of Ghana discount rate - currently 5 1/2% - with a
minimum of 6% per annum. The term would be 15 years including a seven
year grace period for principal and a 1/2% commitment fee on the undrawn
balance. These terms are satisfactory and during negotiations it was
agreed that loan agreements satisfactory to IDA would be signed by the
Government and the three commercial banks before the credit becomes effective.
Details of project costs financing are given in Annex 8 Table 9.
6.06      The proposed IDA credit would be made on standard terms to the
Government of Ghana. Government would apply proceeds of the credit, the
three Commercial bank loans, and its own contribution as follows:
(a) to the Ministry of Agriculture, an amount of NO 7.83 mil-
lion (US$7.67 million) for project authority investments
and operation, farmer training, and the establishment of
new cocoa marketing cooperatives;
(b) to the Public Works Department, an amount totalling
NO 448,000 (US$440,000) for the purchase of road mak-
ing equipment and the resurfacing of up to 100 miles
of feeder roads; and
(c) to selected sub-borrower farmers through ADB for: 1/
(i) cocoa rehabilitation in an amount totalling
Nt 2.15 million (US$2.11 million),
(ii) cocoa replanting in an amount totalling
NO 5.47 million (US$5.36 million).
The IDA credit would finance about NO 7.0 million (US$6.9 million) of the
total on lending through ADB, estimated at NO 7.62 million (US$7.47 million).
Details of the terms and conditions for sub-loans to participating farmers,
and the arrangements between the Government and ADB are given in paras 7.06
through 7.11.
1/   These amounts exclude ADB loans to be made from 1975 to 1978 after the
IDA disbursement period, amounting to NO 1.05 million (US$1.03 million).
(See Annex 6 Table 5).



- 14 -
C. Procurement
6.07      Procurement of vehicles, tractors, and building equipment, spraying
machines, tools and fertilizers valued at about US$1.44 million would ba
through international competitive bidding. Gammalin insecticide valued at
about US$810,000 would be procured by negotiated contract with a local manu-
facturer. Gammalin has been accepted by cocoa manufacturers as Aaving no
taint effect on cocoa beans, and any alternative benzine hexachloride in-
secticide would require further testing for its taint effect. The project
building program of housing and stores, costing about US$665,000, would be
too small to attract international competition, because of the  m.8ll, size
of individual contracts. These would be subject to local competitive tender.
All Government tenders, local and international, are processed by the Ghana
Supply Commission. The Commission's procedures are satisfactory anld it
would handle project tenders on the project authority's account.
D. Disbursement
6.08      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be made against 100% of the
CIF cost of imported materials, about US$1.44 million; against 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of expatriate staff, about US$130,000; and a percentage,
presently estimated at 82,, of sub-loans made to farmers for insecticideE,
hired labor, and planting material, and of the cost of project administration
buildings, in total about US$6.06 million; US$0.87 million would remain Uri-
allocated and would be disbursed to meet contingencies as required. Expendi-
ture would be evidenced by contracts, shipping documents, certified records
of expenditure, and records certified by ADB of sub-loan disbursement to
farmers.  Any surplus credit amounts would be cancelled.  Estimated dis-
bursements of the credit over the five year development period are:
Project Year   1         2        3         4        5
…--------millions--------------
US$                      1.16     1.38      2.14     2.16      1.66
NO equivalent            1.18     1.41      2.18     2.21      1.69
E. Accounts and Audits
6.09      Separate project accounts would be maintained by the project
authority. Loan accounts of participating farmers would be maintained by
ADB. Project authority accounts, including ADB project loan accounts,
would be audited annually by an independent auditor, mutually acceptable
to the Government and IDA.  Assurances to this effect have been obtained
from Government. The auditing of cooperative society accounts would continue
to be the responsibility of the Registrar of Cooperatives. Audited annual
accounts of the Project Authority, ADB project loan accounts, and the coopera-
tives would be submitted to the Association within four months of the closing
of the financial year; during negotiations, assurances to this effect were
obtained from Government.



- 15 -
VII. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
7.01      The project would be carried out by a project development unit
established within the Ministry of Agriculture, which would enjoy a large
measure of autonomy. The Project Manager would be responsible to the Minister
of Agriculture, through the latter's Principal Secretary. The initial survey
and cutting out of SSVD infected trees and their contacts in the project area
would be carried out by the Cocoa Division in advance of project activities.
Subsequent replanting of trees cut out (see Annex 2 para 27), and monthly
reinspection, would be carried out by the Cocoa Division. Assurances to this
effect have been obtained from the Government.
7.02      The project development unit would maintain its own accounts, and
overall management and financial control would be exercised from a project
Head Office located at Suhum in the approximate center of the project area.
This would be staffed by the following key personnel: Project Manager,
Deputy Project Manager, Cooperative Officer, Financial Controller, Loan
Officer, and an Administrator. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credit would be the establishment of the project development unit with terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA.
7.03      Field management would be effected through three senior Agricul-
tural Survey Officers (SASO) who would each control a zone comprising a total
of about 50,000 acres (8 sq. miles). Zonal offices and housing would be
established at Suhum, Nankese and Mangoase. A zone would consist of five
units, each of about 10,000 acres, although unit areas would vary depending
on the proportion of cocoa available for rehabilitation and land for re-
planting. Project activity in each unit would be directed by an Agricultural
Survey Officer (ASO) and the unit would be divided into 10 blocks of about
1,000 acres in total, each with an Agricultural Assistant (AA) in charge,
assisted by four Field Assistants (FA). Within each block of 1,000 acres,
groups of between 30 and 40 farmers would be formed to facilitate spraying
organization and the siting of seedling nurseries. These arrangements should
give a coverage of one FA to about 60 acres of replanted cocoa and 85 acres
of rehabilitated cocoa, and to between 15 to 30 farmers. Proposed super-
vision density at the FA level is high, but would be reduced only in the
event of such action being proved to be practical.



- 16 -
7.04      Prolect Steering Committee - Several agencies in addition to the
Ministry of Agriculture are involved in the productioli and marketing et
cocoa and would be concerned directly or indirectly with the project. To
coordinate the work of these agencies and to oversee project progress, a
project steering committe would be formed. Under the chairmanship of the
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, the committee would be made
up of senior nominated representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana, CMB, the Cooperative Department, the
Ministries of Finance, and Economic Planning, and the Ghana Cooperative
Marketing Association, who would be of such seniority as to ensure the
support of the Departments and entities represented. The. Project Manager
would be the executive secretary of the committee which would meet not less
than once every three months. The committee would receive the technical
advice of its members and would be able to call upon a project inspection
unit which would be created in the Cocoa Division to make spot checks and
progressive evaluation of the project. The membership and ternis of reference
for the committee were agreed during negotiations and it would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit that a committee with a membership
and terms of reference acceptable to the Association had been established.
A project organization chart is at Annex 9.
7.05      Cooperatives - Since membership in a cocoa marketing cooperative
society would be a prerequisite for project participation, 15 new societies
would have to be established during the project development period. The
Department of Cooperatives is under-established and would he unable to
satisfactorily supervise the establishment of 15 new societies; thus pro-
ject headquarters would include a Cooperative Officer, a senior Assistant
Cooperative Officer and two Assistant Cooperative Officers, who would be
seconded to the prolect authority from the Department of Cooperatives and
whose salaries would be met under the project. Assurances were obtained
from Government that the above cooperative staff would be seconded to the
project authority, and that all cocoa marketing cooperative societies in
the project area would be placed under the control of the project Coe,verative
Officer.
B. Credit Arrangements and Terms of Sub-Loans
7.06      Loans to project farmers would be made by the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank. Sub-borrowers for cocoa rehabilitation would receive credit for
up to NO 54/acre in two annual installments of up to NO 22 and NO 32 res-
pectively. These credits would be repaid at 8% interest over four years
after a grace period of one year for both principal and interest, see
Annex 11, Table 1.



- 17 -
7.07      Sub-borrowers for cocoa replanting would receive credit for up to
NO 172/acre in four annual installments of up to NO 123, NO 18, NO 12 and
NO 19 respectively. The term of the credit would be 13 years and repay-
ments in the form of annuities at 8% interest would start in the seventh
year. Interest would be waived during the first four years and capitalized
during the fifth and sixth years.  80ce it would be desirable for participants
in the replanting scheme to accept and understand the discipline of credit
repayment, progressively increasing token repayments of principal would be
made in the fourth, fifth and sixth year, see Annex 11, Table 2.
7.08      The proposed interest rate of 8% on sub-loans is in line with
ADB policy of charging between 7% and 9% on its current loans; and while a
lower interest rate could be justified in view of the very heavy taxation
of the cocoa farmer, the terms of the sub-loans would allow sub-borrowers
a reasonable debt service coverage of about two times during their loan
repayment periods. Assurances have been obtained from Government that the
above terms and conditions of sub-loans would apply and would not be changed
without the prior approval of IDA.
7.09      ADB would repay the Government the capital element of sub-borrowers'
repayments as these were receivable, together with interest at 5-1/2%. Of
the remaining interest, 1-1/2% would be retained by ADB to cover its ex-
penses, and 1% would be paid to the Ghana Cocoa Cooperative Marketing Agency
(GCMA) which has stated that it would guarantee sub-borrowers' repayments
in return for such a foe. Project participants would market their cocoa
through GCMA, see para 7.18, and GCMA concern with both credit recovery
and marketing should have a beneficial effect on both operations. In order
to ensure satisfactory yields from project farms following the conclusion
of sub-loan disbursements under the project it is essential that credit
facilities for fertilizer would be available. To finance such credits,
ADB would retain. aproportion of farmers' interest payments due to Govern-
ment, totalling about US$350,000. It would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit that Government had entered into a subsidiary loan
agreement with ADB which covered the above issues and was satisfactory to IDA,
and also that GCMA had concluded a guarantee agreement with ADB satisfactory
to IDA. The subsidiary loan agreement would provide for the establishment of
a fertilizer credit fund, and in addition, for the project development unit
to disburse sub-loans to project farmers on ADB account.
7.10      ADB would second four Loan Officers to the project development
unit. These would be directly responsible to the Project Manager until such
time as the disbursement of sub-loans to farmers is complete. Their salaries
would be met under the project and they would be responsible for approving
the creditworthiness of project participants, and ensuring that participants
sign suitable legal loan agreements before credits are disbursed by the
project authority. In addition, ADB's Board, would approve loans appraised



- 18 -
by project loan officers. The loan agreements would make provision for
settlement of any outstanding loan by the inheritors of a deceased partici-
pant's farm. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that ADB would
second four Loan Officers to the project authority and that the terms of the
loan agreements to be signed by project farmers would be satisfactory to IDA.
7.11      Farm Size - Farm size would not be a limiting factor to partici-
pation in the rehabilitation scheme as the most efficient capsid control in
obtained when all cocoa in an area is sprayed, leaving no sources of re-
infestation. The minimum area for which credits would be granted under the
replanting scheme would be 1 acre and a participant would only be granted
credits for 2 acres in the first instance. The granting of additional credits
would be dependent upon satisfactory maintenance of the first two acres.
C. Field Operations
7.12      Using Cocoa Division maps of existing cocoa plots, the Agricultural
Assistant and Field Assistant would contact farmers and explain the project.
Existing cooperative societies would be strengthened, and new ones esta-
blished where necessary for farmers wishing to participate in the project.
7.13      Surveys conducted in the project area have shown that the majority
of farmers are willing to participate in the project. Neighboring farmers
would be formed into groups and their block of land examined by the Agri-
cultural Assistant. He would prepare a work program for the group, which
would include its phasing and scheduling of input requirements and labor
recruitment, and through project headquarters make suitable arrangements
for SSVD control. The creditworthiness of project participants would be
approved by ADB through its Loan Officers seconded to the project before
group work programs were approved by the Project Manager.
7.14      Project Implementation - Gammalin and sprayers for rehabilitation
would be purchased by the project development unit and supplied as credits to
participants from its stores. While all farmers would be encouraged to
purchase a spraying machine, those with small plots would be able to hire
a sprayer from the project development unit initially, but cooperatives would
be encourgaged to assume this role. Since most farmers participating in the
rehabilitation scheme would also receive credits for replanting, it is ex-
pected that the majority of participants would own sufficient cocoa to
warrant the purchase of their own spraying machines. Spraying would be
organized so that all cocoa in a block would be sprayed at the same time,
thus minimizing the spread of capsids from treated to untreated plots.
Records of all inputs used would be maintained by the Agricultural Assis-
tants and unit ASO's (Agriculture Survey Officers) would supervise the
payments, after the completion of spraying, of any labor that might be
hired for such work. The project development unit would advise ADB of credits
issued, and ADB would prepare loan accounts and subsequently submit farm-
er's loan repayment schedules to the appropriate cocoa marketing society
and to the Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association.



- 19 -
D. Staffing
7.15      The Project Manager has already been selected in consultation with
IDA. The Financial Controller would be recruited internationally if a suit-
able Ghanaian cannot be appointed immediately. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from the Government that appointments to the posts of
Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager and Financial Controller and the
terms of reference and conditions of employment of these officials would be
mutually acceptable to Government and IDA, and that IDA would be sonsulted
prior to the appointment of a project cooperative officer. The appointments
of the Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager, and Financial Controller
would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
7.16      The remaining staff required for the project would be drawn from
qualified experienced staff already serving in the Ministry of Agriculture,
and there should be no difficulty In filling these appointments. The Minis-
try would need to second the following staff to the project development unit:
Project Year in
Title                       Number        which  required
1       2
Senior Agricultural Survey Officer (SASO)    3               3       -
Agricultural Survey Officers                  15             6       9
Agricultural Assistants (AA)                 150            60      90
Field Assistants (FA)                        600           240     360
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the above
staff would be appointed to the project.
E. Marketing Organization
7.18      All project participants would be members of a cocoa marketing
cooperative society, and such societies would operate as agents of the
Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association (GCMA), itself a licensed buying
agent of the CMB. GCMA would advance funds, obtained from CMB, to project
cocoa marketing cooperative societies. All cocoa purchased by these pri-
mary societies would be transported and sold by GCMA to the CMB. GCMA
would retain part of the buying allowance (see para 3.12) paid to it by
CMB to cover its operating expenses and the remainder would be distributed



- 20 -
to project societies according to the volume of cocoa handled. The fore-
going procedures are standard practices and work well provided that timely
advances of funds are made to the societies to allow im_ediate cash pay-
ments to be made to farmers for all cocoa purchased. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from Government that CMB, through the GCMA, would
make sufficient funds available to all project cocoa marketing cooperatives
for the prompt purchase of participating farmers' cocoa. Further details
of cocoa marketing are given in Annex 1.
VIII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES
A. Yields and Output
8.01      Rehabilitation  Cocoa Division production records show an average
yield of 150 lb/acre for cocoa in the project area, although field inspect-
ion indicates a wide range of yields. Experience has shown that by using
the rehabilitation tachniques provided under the project, the average yield
would be increased to 500 lb/acre although there would be an appreciable
variation between different farms and plots. For project calculations, it
is assumed that the incremental yield increases of rehabilitated cocoa would
be: Year 2 - 100 lb, Year 3 - 200 lbs, and Year 4 - 50 lb; and that
thereafter under continuing good management, the average annual yield
vould remain at 500 lb/acre. Assuming treatment of 51,000 acres under
the project, incremental cocoa production would amount to some 8,000 tons
annually from 1977 valued, on the basis of the Bank's price forecasts
given in para 8.08, at US$4.6 million in foreign exchange.
8.02      Replanting  A replanted farm would begin to yield in its fourth
year, and its production would increase progressively up to its seventh year,
when for project calculations it is assumed to roemin stable until it reaches
25 years of age. On the basis of trials conducted in Ghana and elsewhere,
it is estimated that faria replanted under the project would yield an
average of 700 lb/acre from the seventh year after planting and thus, that
from 1982 project replantings would have an annual output of about 11,000
tons valued at US$6.2 million in foreign exchange.
8.03      The above yields are cousidered achievable both in view of the
demonstrated capacity of m elonado and hybrid cocoa to sustain yields well
In excess of 1,200 lb/acre under Ghana conditions, and the recorded res-
ponse of low-yielding a olonado cocoa to rehabilitation techniques, "ea



- 21 -
Annex 2. They would be achievable however, only under the high degree of
farmer supervision and assistance provided under the project.
8.04      Food Crops  It has been assumed that the majority of project farmers
would plant plantain and coco yams as temporary shade for their replanted co-
coa. Using data from Cocoa Division demonstration cocoa replantings, it is
estimated that on average, plantain would produce during the four years
of cocoa establishment a total yield of about 6 tons/acre, which at
current market prices would be valued at NO 126.00. In addition, coco
yams would give a total yield of 1 ton/acre valued at NO 30 in the second
year of replanting. These crops would thus provide a source of cash
income to participants during the development of their replanted cocoa.
It is difficult to estimate the amounts of such cash income, however, since
these would depend upon the amounts of food crops consumed by the farm
family and the location of farms in respect to roads and markets.
B. Markets and Prices
8.05      The world cocoa market in the last decade or so has been charac-
terized by fairly steadily increasing production and consumption, both
rising at approximately the same average rate of 3.7% per annum. World
production rose from an average annual level of 776,000 long tons during
the first postwar decade to an average of 1,190,000 long tons in the last
ten years, an increase of 53%. As pointed out by the Bank's Economics
Department, "A notable feature of the postwar cocoa situation has been that
large increases in output, as in 1965, have not led to prolonged surpluses.
On the contrary, consumption has responded quickly to increased supplies
and lower prices, with the result that the market has tended to be cleared
in a brief period. Considering that the levels of per capita consumption
of cocoa are rather low even in the developed countries, there is scope
for avoiding a structural imbalance between supply and demand in the medium-
term future." 1/
8.06      World cocoa prices have fluctuated sharply in the postwar period.
After a pronounced year-to-year decline from US 44.3 cents/lb (Spot New
York) in 1958 to US 21 cents/lb in 1962, prices went up slightly in 1963
only to drop again in 1964 and 1965, reaching a record low of US 17.3
cents/lb in 1965 which was the year of the world's largest cocoa crop.
Largely because of the decline in Ghana production since that time, world
consumption has exceeded production during the last four years and current-
ly stocks are very low. This situation is reflected by the sustained rise
in prices which began in 1966 and culminated in an average price in 1969 of
US 45.7 cents/lb. In 1970 prices have again fallen and the Spot New York
price is now about US 33 cents/lb; how prices will move in 1970 is dependent
1/   Stabilization of Prices of Primary Products - Cocoa, IBRD Economics
Department, May 1969.



- 22 -
largely upon the forecasts that are yet to be made of Ghana's 1970 main crop
which will not be harvested until the fall.
8.07      As noted in the Bank's study previously mentioned, "It is ex-
pected that high prices will induce intensification of inputs in cocoa
with the result that current production capacity will be exploited to its
maximum. The increased supplies will no doubt tend to induce a gradual
downward readjustment of the price level over the next few years.'"
8.08      Project calculations have been based on a price of US27 cents/lb
Spot New York for Accra cocoa. This price is slightly below the Bank's
Economics Department forecast of the price trend by the mid -1970's of 30
US cents per pound Spot New York. The price of US27 cents/lb allows payment
of a producer price of US13 cents/lb, a CMB trading surplus of US1.5 cents/lb
and a Government export duty of US7.7 cents/lb, see Annex 10.
C. Farmers' Benefits
8.09      The large variation in farm sizes precludes establishing typical
farm budgets for rehabilitation and replanting, and consequently, model
budgets for one acre units of replanted and rehabilitated cocoa have been
constructed. These models are at Annex 11. The models are based on the
current producer price of No 8 per 60 lb head load of cocoa (US13 cents/lb
equivalent). It is believed that this price is sustainable in view of the
Bank's forecast of world prices.
8.10      Rehabilitation  Cocoa rehabilitation would more than triple the
cash income of a participating farmer, raising it from a pre-rehabilitation
average of NO 20.00/acre (US$19.60) to NO 66.67 (US$65.34). From an annual
incremental gross income of NO 46.67/acre, a project farmer would pay in-
creased production costs of NO 22.89 and a debt service of NO 15.80, and
would enjoy a net incremental income of NO 7.98 (US$7.82) during a four-year
loan repayment period. After completion of loan repayment, total net income
would be NO 41.60/acre (US$40.77) of which No 21.60 would be incremental. A
large number of participants own at least 3 acres of cocoa and their total
net income after loan repayment would be NO 125; an increase of 100%. The
financial rate of return to the farmer calculated over 15 years would be 43%.
8.11      Replanting  At maturity, sales from replanted cocoa would gross
NO 93.33/acre. From this income, the farmer would pay NO 28.03 for farm
inputs and NO 33.59 for debt service over a seven-year loan repayment period,
and be left with a net income of NO 31.71/acre (US$31.07). During the esta-
blishment period, the cost of farm inputs would be higher and no income from
cocoa would be obtained until the fourth year. In this period, however, the
farmer would have revenue accruing from the sale of coco yams and plantains
planted as temporary shade. Few farmers would market their total produc-
tion however, as some foodcrops would be consumed on the farm and not all



- 23 -
of the project is conveniently located for their commercialization. None-
theless, foodcrop sales would be an important source of income in the
development period, and sales in this period could amount to as much as
a total of NO 150/acre. After completion of loan repayment, net income
would rise to No 65.03 (US$63.07)/acre. The financial rate of return to
the farmer on his investment in replanting, calculated over a 20-year
life, would be 19.2%, assuming no foodcrop sales.
D. Government Revenue
8.12      Government would be in receipt of substantial revenues from the
project.  Annex 12 shows that, taking into account export duties and CMB
operating surpluses, the Government would earn an annual cash surplus from
1975, and would recover all expenditures on the project by 1977. The total
surplus accruing to Government over the life of the project is estimated
at NO 46.8 million (US$45.9 million equivalent).
IX. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
9.01      The project's primary benefits would be the increased production
of cocoa and resultant foreign exchange earnings, a satisfactory return on
investment, and higher incomes for participating farmers. Based on a world
price of US 27 cents/lb it is estimated that at full production the project
would generate about US$11 million a year in net foreign exchange earnings.
9.02      The project would also help Ghana to regain its share in the
world cocoa market, and would make a significant contribution to the coun-
try's economic development by providing rural employment opportunities,
and by demonstrating the efficiency of supervised credit schemes as a
means of promoting agricultural development.
9.03      The calculation of the return to the economy from the project is
shown in Annex 13. It takes into account only 68% of labor costs. This is
the proportion of farm labour requirements that would be met by hired mi-
grant labor, the remainder being provided by the farm family, at no cash cost.
In view of project farmers high average age (para 4.03) and their associated
reluctance to either move from the area or work for a daily wage, and the
absence of alternative work during the cocoa reason, the opportunity cost
of farmer's labor is low. It is difficult to determine a value for this
opportunity cost, but if it is costed at the official minimum wage rate of
NO.70/day, the rates of return given below, would be reduced by about 3%.
The calculation assumes also that the life of replanted farms would be 25
years and that of rehabilitated farms 15 years.



- 24 -
9.04      On the basis of the yields and costs estimated in this report,
the assumed cocoa price of US27 cents/lb, and the treatment of labor costs
and farm lives described above, the return to the economy would be 26%.
The return has been tested for sensitivity at various prices combined with
a 25% reduction in yields. The results are as follows;
World Price in US$ cents per lb
20     25     27      30     35
With assumed yields                  16%    23%    26%    30%    35%
With reduction in
yield of 25%                        9%    15%    18%    21%    25%
The sensitivity of the rate of return to possible variations in yields and
prices, shows that the project would be justified economically even in the
unlikely event of substantial price variations combined with yields much
below estimate.
9.05      The rehabilitation and replanting components of the project
share the same administrative and overhead costs   Since the two components
are mutually interdependent for their success - the rehabilitation scheme
benefits from the close supervision that is required by inclusion of re-
planting in the project, and replanting benefits from the general improve-
ments, especially in pest and disease control, of the existing cocoa indus-
try in the project area brought about by rehabilitation - it is difficult
to calculate realistic rates of return separately for rehabilitation and
replanting. For comparative purposes, the rate of return to the economy
from the replanting component has been calculated assuming that it would
bear all project administrative, staff, and overhead costs, and has been
tested for sensitivity to varying prices and yields. The results, which
further demonstrate the economic merit of the project, are as follows:
World Prices in US$ cents/lb
20    25    27    30    35
With assumed yields             10%   14%   15%   17%   20%
With reduction in
yield of 25%                   5%   10%   11%   13%   15%
9.06      The rate of return from investment in rehabilitation is higher
than that from replanting. This is because less supervision is required
for rehabilitation and its benefits are generated within a much shorter
period of time. This can be shown by assuming that the rehabilitation
component could be carried out on its own with only 30% of project adminis-
tration and overhead costs and further, that no cost is attributed to family



- 25 -
labor and that incremental yields would be 25% lower than those assumed in
this report. Under these circumstances, the rate of return from rehabili-
tation would be 36% at a world price of US27 cents/lb. However, if family
labor is coated at the minimum Government rate of N0O.70/day, the rate of
return would decrease to about 23%. In view of the superior benefits of
rehabilitation the inclusion of replanting as the major component of the
project can be questioned. As stated in para 3.03, however, the long run
future of Ghana's cocoa industry is dependent upon the greater use of mod-
ern production technology, and this is not possible without the replace-
ment of old low-yielding cocoa, badly laid out and managed, by plantings
of high-yielding cocoa varieties properly spaced and maintained, and thus
capable of providing their owners with the cash incentives to use modern
methods and inputs. Old cocoa cannot be successfully rehabilitated, and
the high returns from rehabilitation under the project would result from
the relatively young age of the cocoa so treated.
X. RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     During credit negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) Government would make available all funds needed for
the project in advance and in block form on the basis
of quarterly estimates prepared by the Project Manager
(para 6.04);
(b) the Cocoa Division would carry out satisfactory initial
SSVD control throughout the project area in advance of
project authority activities and thereafter would ensure
necessary reinspection (para 7.01);
(c) cooperative staff would be seconded to the project
by the Department of Cooperatives and all cocoa
marketing cooperative societies in the project area
would be placed under the control of the project
Cooperative Officer (para 7.05);
(d) a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
would be entered into by Government and ADB defining
the terms and conditions of Government on-lending to
ADB, and these of ADB's loans to the project farmers;
providing for secondment of ADB staff to the project
authority; and for post-project seasonal fertilizer
loans to the project participants; and that such
agreement would not be changed without the prior
approval of IDA (paras 7.08 and 7.09);



- 26 -
(e) GCMA vould enter into an agreement, satisfactory
to IDA, with ADB to guarantee repayment of farmers'
loans, and such agreeecnt would not be changed with-
out the prior approval of IDA (para 7.09);
(f) sufficient funds for efficient cocoa purchasing
would be made available to all project cocoa marketing
cooperatives through CMB and GCMA (pare 7 .18); and
10.02     Conditions of effectiveness of the credit are that:
(a) an agreement, satisfactory to IDA, had been signed
between Government and Ghana Commerical Bank,
Barclays Bank D.C.O. and Standard Bank of West
Africa (para 6.05);
(b) the project authority, with terms of references sa-
tisfactory to IDA, had been established (para 7.02);
(c) a project steering committee with membership and
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, had been
established (para 7.04);
(d) a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to IDA, had
been signed between Government and ADB (par"s 7.08
and 7.09);
(e) an agreement, satisfactory to IDA, had been signed
between ADB and GCMA (para 7.09); and
(f) the Project Manager, Deputy Manager, Financial
Controller, and Cooperative Officer had been
appointed (para 7.15).
10.03     The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Develop-
ment Credit of US$8.5 million, on standard terms.



ANNEX 1
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
COCOA MARKETING BOARD, AND COCOA MARKETING
Background
1.        As shown in Table I the tonnages of cocoa produced in Ghana are
large, and the purchasing of these from many hundreds of thousands of small
farmers and their subsequent export is a substantial task. The develop-
ment of cocoa marketing in Ghana is divisible into five distinct phases.
The first was the period up to 1939, when the purchase and export of cocoa
was carried out by expatriate commercial firms, who had established agents
and buying stations in cocoa producing areas. In this phase there was no
government intervention or control other than compulsory grading and in-
spection before export.
2.        The second phase, 1939 to 1945, followed an official study which
revealed a number of deficiencies in existing marketing methods, especially
practices on the part of middlemen which were detremental to producers. To
correct such deficiencies and ensure the delivery of essential commodities
during the war period, the British Government established statutory mar-
keting organizations and an export monopoly of all essential crops, including
cocoa, produced in the British West African territories. An agency -- the
West African Produce Control Board -- was established for the purpose of
handling the marketing of all cocoa (as well as other commodities) during
the period 1939/45.
3.        The third phase was the postwar period 1947/61, when the statu-
tory control of cocoa marketing was taken over by the Ghana Cocoa Marketing
Board, established by ordinance in 1947. At the same time, the Ghana Cocoa
Marketing Company was established in London as a subsidiary of the Board,
to sell Ghana's cocoa abroad.
4.        The basic functions of the Board were "to secure the most favor-
able arrangements for the purchase, grading, export and selling of cocoa,
and to assist in the development by all possible means of the cocoa industry
for the benefit and prosperity of the producers".
5.        The principle instrument to perform these functions was the pre-
rogative to hold reserves and build up a producer price stablization fund,
which the Board was able to maintain from 1947 to 1957. After 1957, however,
because of increasing fiscal difficulties the Government borrowed from the
Board's reserves which were soon depleted.
6.        In the purchase of cocoa the Board acted through individuals and
firms, including cooperatives, to which it delegated authority to buy cocoa
at a fixed minimum producer price under a licensing agreement renewable



ANNEX 1
Page 2
annually at the Board's discretion. These buyers were designated as Licensed
Buying Agents (LBA) and several had been in the cocoa business for many years,
operating throughout the country.
7.        The fourth phase began in 1961 and lasted until early 1966.
During this period, the Nkrumah Government significantly changed the system
of cocoa marketing. Farmers were organized under an entity known as the
United Ghana Farmers' Council Cooperatives (UGFCC), which became the sole
buyer of cocoa in the country on behalf of the Marketing Board.  The UGFCC
was essentially a wing of Nkrumah's political party and only farmers having
party cards could be members. It was never able to set up a cocoa buying
network that functioned as effectively as the system it replaced. During
its five years of operations, the multifarious activities of the UGFCC
brought about a serious disruption of cocoa marketing in Ghana. Following
the 1966 coup it was immediately disbanded.
8.        The fifth and last phase started in 1966.  Under the new Govern-
ment, the Cocoa Marketing Board began to rebuild the domestic marketing
structure that had existed previously. The Board restored the license
of the Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association, which had been one oE the
major buying agents, handling on an average about one-third of the crop,
but which had been forced to cease operations during the five years of the
UGFCC. The Board also restored the licenses of two other local firms
which had been active buying agents. However, the expatriate firms which
had also been important buying agents and which had disbanded their field
organizations declined to resume their operations when invited to do so by
the Board. Subsequently, other local firms qualified as buying agents
and were granted licenses by the Board. There are now 10 active buying
agents, including the Board's own subsidiary, the Produce Buying Company,
established in 1966 when there was an insufficient number of buying agents
capable of handling the crop.
The Present Marketing Organization
9.        Under the ordinance of 1947 (see para 3) the composition of CMB
provided for a balanced representation of the various sectors of the cocoa
industry.  Board membership consisted of representatives of the following:
No. of Members
Central Government         4
Cocoa Farmers              4
Provincial Councils        2
Trading Firms              1
Chamber of Commerce        1
Total:            12



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       A series of amendments to the 1947 ordinance culminated in the
enactment by the Nkrumah Government of Legislative Instrument No. 433 of
March 1965, which reduced CMB membership to 7 members appointed by the
Minister of Trade, with prior approval of the Cabinet, for a period of one
year (except tthe managing director whose tenure remains at the discretion
of the Cabinet). Trhe members are: a Chairman, selected from among the
members of the Minister of Trade; the managing director; the managing
director of the Cocoa Marketing Company, one representative each of the
Bank of Ghana and the Ministry of Trade, and two members representing the
farmers.  These changes effectively gave Government much greater control
over CMB than was previously the case.
11.       When CMB was establislhed in 1947, it had an initial capital of
NV 27 million, whiich was Ghana's share of the surplus of the dissolved
West African Produce Control Board. This surplus grew over the years and
by 1957 had reached :4 154 million (held mainly in British Government
securities). About NV 90 million of these were in a price stabilization
reserve account. As mentioned previously, the original CMB ordinance
specified that these reserve funds were to be used to build up the producer
price stablization fund, and to finance cocoa purchases and provide assis-
tance to the farmers in all aspects of production. The new ordinance re-
quired CMB to transfer all operating surpluses to the Central Government,
including reserves held at that time. Thus the CMB was prevented from
accumulating reserves for the purposes mentioned above.
12.       Tile various changes in regulations affecting cocoa created con-
fusion and insecurity in thie minds of the cocoa farmers, resulting in dis-
content and mistrust of the CMB.  The new Government which took over in
1966 recognized the problems faced by the cocoa farmers and initiated
action in support of their activities.  With the recovery of world market
prices which began in 1965/66, the Government was able to start an upward
adjustment of prices to producers. Prices per 60 lb load were raised from
NO 4.00 in 1965 to NO 4.50 in 1966, NV o.50 in 1967, NV 7.00 in 1968 and
NO 8.00 in 1969 to present. In addition, the Government resumed the pro-
vision of Gammalin and sprayers, as well as fertilizers at subsidised
prices to cocoa producers. Moreover, thie Government is now revising the
1965 cocoa legislation to adjust it to the institutional conditions now
prevailing in the country. In the liglht of the experience already gained,
and of the Government's understanding of the need to strengthen the cocoa
industry, it is probable that any new regulations will benefit the producers
and the industry as a whole.
The Buying of Cocoa
13.       Purchase of cocoa from the producers is carried out by Licensed
Buying Agents (LBA). In addition to thie CMB's own Produce Buying Company
and the Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association, the CMB grants licenses
to firms meeting specific conditions.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
14.       Main functions of LBA are to:
a) Purchase grades I and II cocoa at the minimum price to
the producer as established by the CMB. Producer price
is the ex-scale price received by the farmer at the buying
station.
b) Grade, bag, mark, and arrange for inspection of the cocoa
by the Produce Inspection Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
c) Finance the purchases and provide storage for cocoa until
delivery into CMB stores.
d) Submit regular reports on purchases and stocks to CMB.
e) Arrange delivery of cocoa at CMB port stores at Tema and
Takoradi.
15.       The annual producer price is determined by Government in con-
sultation with CMB. Before each buying season opens, CMB announces the
price per 60 lb. load to be paid at all buying stations. The producer
price remains fixed for the entire season, regardless of fluctuations in
world market prices. CMB maintains inspectors in the field to ensure that
producers receive the official minimum price.
16.       CMB pays the LBA a block allowance, at present NO 38.66 per long
ton (for breakdown see Table 2) to cover all expenses of handling cocoa
from buying points up to loading for truck or rail transportation to port.
Transport costs from local stores to port stores are not included in the
allowance as they are paid directly by CMB. The block allowance includes
a profit margin for LBA of 2.4% of the producer price. It also includes
a commission of NO 3 per long ton which LBA usually passes on to producers
as a bonus at the end of the buying season.
Sources of Funds for Financing Cocoa Purchases
17.       LBA are responsible for financing cocoa purchases.  However, they
actually finance only part of their purchases since under existing financial
arrangements they are able to raise most of the required funds by borrowing
from commercial banks with the guarantee of the CMB. Cocoa buying is fin-
anced as follows. At the beginning of the buying season (early October)
the LBA submits to the CMB an estimate of expected cocoa purchases. The
LBA then draws a 60-day or 90-day bill of exchange on CMB for 90% of the
value of the first 4 weeks' purchases. This bill is accepted by CMB and
the LBA in turn discounts it with a commercial bank, thus securing the
initial working capital. In addition,as the LBA submits weekly declara-
tions of the actual quantitites bought, CMB pays 90% of the value of de-
clared purchases. After cocoa is delivered at port stores, the LBA presents
port stores receipts to the CMB and collects the balance of 10% plus the
block allowance for tonnage delivered.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
18.       To raise the necessary funds, CMB draws bills on the Cocoa Market-
ing Company, covering the volume of cocoa exported. These bills are guaran-
teed by the Bank of Ghana and discounted by a commercial bank. Finally, the
Cocoa Marketing Company redeems the bills with proceeds received from cocoa
sales abroad.
Export Duties
19.       The export duty on cocoa is heavy, and applied on a sliding scale
basis. Table 3 shows the rates of export duty proposed for the 1970/71
season.
The Selling Of Cocoa
20.       From 1947 to 1961 the sale of Ghana cocoa overseas was the re-
sponsibility of the Cocoa Marketing Company, a Board subsidiary established
in London in 1947. In mid-1961, the operations of the company were trans-
ferred to Ghana and placed under a new company incorporated locally -- the
Cocoa Marketing Company (Ghana) Limited (CMC). Since then, cocoa sales
have been made in Accra. All sales by CMC are on a net c.i.f. basis and
are made only to firms which are registered with CMC as buyers. Firms
wishing to be registered as buyers of cocoa are required to apply directly
to the company in Accra. They must provide evidence that they have been
engaged in some capacity in the cocoa trade of a consuming country, and
possess first class bank references indicating also that they haveLfinancial
resources to handle at least 1,000 tons per season. CMC has the right to
grant, renew, and suspend buyers' licenses for each season, and to establish
the conditions of the licenses.
21.       CMC maintains an office in London and one in New York.  These
offices do not have the authority to conclude sales but merely serve to
receive bids and pass them on to CMC in Accra for a decision.  Only the
CMC managing director and his deputy have the power to execute sales.  Over-
seas buyers can also purchase cocoa by communicating directly with CMC in
Accra, or they may negotiate through their own Accra office or accredited
representative with CMC. The operations of CMC begin where the CMB's
operations end, that is, after cocoa is shipped on a vessel designated by
CMC. In actual practice, the operations are not so clearly defined, as a
major portion of the cocoa crop is sold before the buying season officially
starts, since most manufacturers like to assure a supply long in advance of
the cocoa season. Selling in advance of the season requires of course a
careful evaluation of the price trends. CMC makes such calculations by
analyzing the fundamental market determinants -- importantly forecasts of
supply, demand and inventories. Such analyses are not always satisfactory
and have often caused Ghana to obtain lower prices than would have been
possible. The Bank is providing Ghana with technical assistance for the
improvement of its crop forecasting methods by financing a specialist in
this field.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
22.       Legislative Instrument No. 433 of 1965 made the CMB responsible
also for the marketing of: (1) palm oil, palm kernels and palm kernel oil;
(2) copra and coconut oil; (3) sheanuts and shea butter; (4) coffee;
(5) groundnuts; and (6) bananas. But, compared to cocoa, the volume and
value of these other commodities handled by the CMB is still very small.
Annual export value has been less than NO 2 million (US$1.9 million) in
recent years.
23.       Although the CMB operations and the marketing system are still in
the process of reorganization, following the UGFCC period, cocoa marketing
is being conducted reasonably well.
Conclusion
24.       Ghana has considerable experience of purchasing and marketing
cocoa. While the present system is still suffering from the ill-planned
changes of the early 1960's, and is in the throes of reorganization, pur-
chasing and marketing procedures are generally satisfactory, are improving,
and are likely to improve further. They are adequate for the satisfactory
marketing of the cocoa that would be produced by the project appraised in
this report.



ANNEX I
TABLE I
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
COCOA: GHANA AND TOTAL WORLD PRODUCTION,
19)49/50-1969/70
(Thousand long tons)
Year                    Ghana                  World                 % Ghana
19L9/50                   2)h8                    753                   32.9
1950/51                   263                     799                   32.9
1951/52                   211                     635                   33.2
1952/53                   247                     78h                   31.5
1953/5)i                  221                     759                   29.1
1954t/55                  23)4                    788                   29.7
1955/56                   229                     823                   27.8
1956/57                   264                     881                   30.0
1957/58                   207                     76L                   27.1
1958/59                   256                     891                   28.7
1959/60                   317                   1902)h                  30.9
1960/61                   432                   1,156                   37.4
1961/62                   109                  1,12!1                  36.1,
1962/63                   L21                   1,155                   36.5
1963/61,                I421                   1, 9ll                  35.3
196L/65                   572                   1,h190                  38.1,
1965/66                   409                   1,205                   33.9
1966/67                   375                   1,321,                  28.3
1967/68                   l17                   1,3L5                   31.0
1968/69                   334                   1,229                   27.2
1969/70                   370*                  1,311*                  28.2
*Fstimated.
Source: Cocoa Statistics Bulletin, FAO, various issues.



ANNEX 1
TABLE 2
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
COCOA MARKETING 9OARD
FICED ALLOWANCE PAID TO LICrMU) PUYPTG AGiNITS
N  per long ton
1. Packing
16 bags @ 65 Np each                         10.O10
h.57 on twine A 35 Np an 1 lb
on the basis of 1 lb and
5% service on bags                         o.65              11.05
2.  Handling, Storage,etc.
Handling up country                        o.81
Store to rail                              0.73
Rent of store                               0.73
Grading                                    0.29
Road transport                              4.o0
Comission                                   3.00              9,59
3. Overheads
Salaries and wages                          L.20
Watchman's wages                            0.32
Office rent                                0.27
Stationery and telephone                    0.23
Depreciation                               o.lo             5.1,2
IL. Variable Costs
Local remittance cost on
naked cost                                 0.75
Insurance up country to port               1.70
Bank fee                                   0.32
Other finance charges                       2.66
Allowance for profit, 2.1% on
naked cost                                  7.17            12.60
Licensed Ruying Agents' Allowance                             38.66



ANNE 1
TABLE 3
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
Schedule of Rates of Export Duty
FOB price below NO 280                       10%
FOB price between NO 280 - 440         FOB price - 168
FOB price between No 440 - 600         FOB price - 230
2
FOB price above No 600                 FOB price - 411.60
I/ Proposed to go into effect in 1970/71 season.






ANNEX 2
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
TECHINICAL ASPECTS OF GROWING COCOA IN GHANA AND IN THE PROJECT AREA
I. BACKGROUND AND GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF COCOA PRODUCTION
His tory
1.        Cocoa was introduced to the islands of the Gulf of Guinea from
Central and South America in the seventeenth century, and thence to the
mainland of West Africa at the end of the nineteenth century. The growth
of cocoa production in West Africa, principally in Ghana, Nigeria, Ivory
Coast and Cameroon, increased rapidly thereafter and now accounts for over
60% of world production. This growth was due to the favorable climatic
conditions and greater freedom from cocoa diseases of West Africa and to
the preponderance of peasant farmers who were less affected by price fluc-
tuations than the highly capitalized estates in the Americas.
Climate, Soils and Ecology
2.        Cocoa requires a hot wet climate with temperatures between 200C
and 27 C, and a rainfall of between 50 and 70 inches a year. The rainfall
should be evenly distributed through the year but a dry sunny period is
desirable to limit fungal diseases and to increase photosynthesis.
3.        Soils should be free-draining and should permit adequate root
development, and much of the world's cocoa is grown on structural clay-
loams, loams and sandy loams.  In Ghana, cocoa soils are usually associated
with undulating country where the soils are mainly derived from igeneous
rocks.
4.        Cocoa is grown most successfully in tropical rain forest areas,
where it is planted under virgin or old secondary forest, and benefits from
the accumulated soil fertility and more even climatic conditions brought
about by the forest.
Cocoa Varieties
5.        The original introductions of cocoa into Ghana were of the Amelonado
type, and this became the traditional planting material of the country.
The introduction from Trinidad in the early 1940's of varieties collected
in the Amazon valley of South America has resulted, however, in the pro-
duction by the Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana (CRIG), formerly the West
African Cocoa Research Institute (WACRI), of hybrid cocoa, both among the
Amazon families and between the Amazon and Amelonado varieties. These
Amazon hybrids come into bearing much earlier and are higher yielding than



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Amelonado varieties. This is illustrated in Table 1 which gives yields
of on of the progeny trials conducted by CRIG at its Tafo research station.
6.        The table shows that in the first five years of cropping, i.e.
for trees up to eight years of age, hybrids gave some 70% more crop than
Amelonado. The gap narrows with age, but at 17 years the hybrids had pro-
duced 40% more cocoa than the Amelonado. It is unfortunate that there are
breaks in the records of similar trial plots elsewhere in Ghana, but the
superiority of the Amazon hybrids with respect to precocity of bearing and
yield under Ghana conditions may be considered established. Similar results
have been obtained in Nigeria, Ivory Coast and Sierra Leone.
7.        Hybrids, however, do have some disadvantages.  They tend to be
more susceptible to Black Pod, and Stem Canker fungal diseases; the crop is
produced over a much longer period of the year than Amelonado, and since
farmers may be disinclined to harvest the very early and late pods, the risk
of Black Pod fungus disease spreading from ripe to unripe pods is increased.
The wider spread of the crop also leads to increased damage from Bathycoelia
thalissina, a pentatomid bug, see para 15; the more vigorous growth requires
greater care in pruning and shaping; and production of pods on canopy branches
makes harvesting more difficult. Finally, it has been suggested that hybrids
have a shorter economic cropping life than Amelonado. There is no established
reason for this, and although yields have been shown to decline from about
years 8 and 9 onwards, this is likely to be due to soil exhaustion resulting
from continuous heavy yields, and probably could be reversed by the use of
fertilizers, as already indicated by CRIG experiments.
8.        Nevertheless, while existing Amazon hybrids are not the ultimate
in cocoa breeding, given sound management and efficient disease and pest
control, they are the best material now available.
9.        Work is proceeding at the Tafo research station on breeding for
both virus tolerance/resistance and Black Pod disease resistance. Such
material is unlikely to be available for commercial use, however, for
another 15-20 years.
Planting
10.       Planting preparation procedures vary according to the type of land
to be planted. In high and secondary forest, the forest must be selectively
thinned or cleared, while in cleared land, ground cover and shade must be
provided at an early stage. In West Africa, ground cover is usually pro-
vided by food crops such as cocoyams, maize, cassava and plantains.
11.       Under traditional methods, cocoa is planted either as beans at
stake or as bare-root seedlings, and plants are closely spaced at 5 ft x
5 ft or 4 ft x 4 ft. However, with the introduction of improved varieties,
seedlings are now raised in polythene pots in nurseries, and the plants are
transplanted to the field after between four to six months.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Maintenance of Young Farms
12.       Under traditional methods of randomly planted Amelonado which
result in a stand of about 500 trees/acre, seedling cocoa receives little
attention once the nurse shade has ceased to yield food crops. For hybrid
material planted in lines, with up to 720 trees/acre, brushing along the
planting lines must be carried out whenever necessary, if the high yield
potential of the hybrid is to be realized.
Harvesting
13.       Cocoa trees come into bearing abotut four years after planting and
reach full production in about the eighth year. The main harvest usually
begins at the end of the wet season and continues during the first few months
of the dry season with possibly a minor harvest during the first months of
the following wet season. Thus, in Ghana, the peak harvesting period is
from September to December with a mid-crop harvesting from June to August.
Ripe pods can be left on the tree for up to two weeks but unharvested pods
are liable to Black Pod disease and germination of beans within the pod,
and farmers aim to pick pods every three weeks in peak periods. After
picking, the pods are left for three to seven days before being taken to
a central collection point where the beans are extracted, fermented over
about seven days and sundried in about ten days. The dry beans are then
bagged, headloaded to the nearest buying center and sold.
Pests and Diseases
14.       The most damaging of cocoa insect pests is the Capsid.  Capsids
(more correctly mirids) feed by injecting cell destroying enzymes into
young tissues of the tree, twigs or pods, and sucking out the resulting
fluids. The feeding points are sites of secondary infection by the fungus
Calonectria, and it is this fungus permeating through the plant tissue which
ultimately kills the affected portion of the tree.
15.       Damage from capsid was first identified in the 1920's and quickly
spread to become severe in all cocoa areas of Ghana.  In 1954, Gammalin, a
proprietary Benzene hexachloride (BHC) insecticide, 1/ was found to give
effective control. Extensive spraying was introduced in 1957, using motor-
ized knapsack sprayers applying 4 ozs of active insecticides per acre four
times annually. The first application is usually made in June followed
by a second after three weeks; the third is in November followed by the
fourth three weeks later in December. In recent years capsid resistance to
BHC has been identified in certain locations, but fortunately a carbamate
insecticide has been found to be effective in these areas. In addition
carbamate gives an effective control of the only other serious pest Bathy-
coelia thallissina (see para 7).
1/   BHC use in Ghana has not been shown to have undesirable side-effects
on the environment.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
16.       The principal cocoa disease is Swollen Shoot Virus Disease (SSVD)
which can kill a tree within a year from initial infection. The disease
was first reported in the Nankese area of the Eastern Region of Chana in
1935 where it wiped out most of the cocoa within a 20 mile radius of Nankese.
In the early 1940's isolated outbreaks were recorded throughout Ghana. The
virus is transmitted by several species of mealybugs which have a wide host
distribution throughout Ghana. The only satisfactory control lies in cutting
out infected trees and their immediate contacts, followed by regular inspec-
tion to locate and remove any further trees which show signs of infection.
Fertilizers
17.       The use of fertilizers on cocoa in Ghana is a recent innovation
because:
(a) in the past, when yields declined due to loss of soil
fertility, farmers tended to move to new forest areas,
which were readily available;
(b) the value of fertilizers could not be proved or guaranteed
because experimental results were commonly masked by capsid
damage and varying shade intensities.
CRIG Fertilizer Trials
18.       The results of fertilizers trials carried out by CRIG on farmers'
plots of Amelonado cocoa and Cocoa Division Amazon cocoa plots have been
variable. However, phosphate and potassium fertilizers have given fairly
constant positive increases in yield on mature Amazon cocoa and as a general
recommendation, CRIG suggest that 80 lb P205 and 50 lb K20/acre applied to
well maintained cocoa, would give yield increases of between 15-30%. The
economic use of fertilizers, however, depends upon maintaining a high stan-
dard of cocoa husbandry. Average cocoa yields in Ghana are low and the use
of fertilizers probably is economic only when cocoa is well managed and
yielding about 600 lb/acre. In addition to increasing yields, fertilizer
is almost certainly necessary to maintain the high potential yields possible
with Amazon hybrids.
II. THE PROJECT AND PROJECT AREA
Climate and Ecolog
19.       The project area is well suited to cocoa cultivation with even
temperatures, adequate rainfall and two short dry seasons. The area
overlies granitic rock, giving good drainage, and the soils of the area,
apart from about one-third in the valley bottoms, are suitable for cocoa.
20.       The area was an important cocoa growing area in the 1930's when
about 95% of the land was under cocoa. Swollen shoot disease destroyed



ANNEX 2
Page 5
almost all the old plantings by 1950 and most of the cocoa in the area
today, about 56,000 acres, was replanted. Subsequent to this, after the
loss of the original cocoa, many farms turned to food crops, and the
proximity of the area to large consuming centers such as Accra, Tema and
Nsawam increased the demand for food crops, and charcoal and firewood
production. Thus, much of the area is deforested and this, together with
the fact that cocoa is being established for the second and, in some cases,
the third time, requires modified techniques, greater use of fertilizers and
better pest control.
Planting Material
21.       The main source of hybrid seed for the project would be the existing
seed garden at Bunso. About 1.1 million pods (each containing about 35 seeds)
would be required. Assuming a requirement of 30 pods per acre, the pods
would be needed as follows:
1971      1972       1973      1974
90,000    270,000   360,000   360,000
Four different hybrid varieties, which have performed best in progeny trials,
would be used, the A, J, H and M crosses of the CRIG Series 11 hybrids. Ex-
isting seed production at Bunso is insufficient to meet project and Cocoa
Division requirements, but production would quickly be increased by hand
pollination techniques. Hand pollination would also enable the timing of
pod production to be controlled so that seed would be available in December/
January; the most suitable time for nursery planting.
Planting
22.       Much of the non-cocoa land in the project area has been used for
food farming in recent years and generally, it will be necessary for cocoa
to be established under a nurse shade of plantain and cocoyam. Cocoa seed-
lings will be raised in polythene bags as close to the area to be planted
as possible. Seeds would be planted in the bags from November through Feb-
ruary and the plants would be transplanted to the field in April and May.
Planting would be in lines with a spacing of 6' x 10' giving 720 plants/acre.
Maintenance of the young trees would follow the procedure outlined in para
12 above.
Harvesting
23.       The processes of harvesting, fermentation and drying would follow
traditional practices, but the use of hybrid seed will present some features
new to Ghana cocoa farmers, and which would necessitate improved management
techniques. The wider spread of crop over the year would mean an increased
number of harvestings' the higher proportion of pods in canopy branches
would make harvesting more tedious and increase the chances of missed pods;
the pods would be larger and heavier than Amelonado; and bean size would be
more variable.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Anti-Capsid Control
24.       Widespread anti-capsid spraying with BHC was carried out in 1957-60
by Government gangs and later by farmers themselves. In the late 1960's,
however, shortages of insecticides led to a resurgence of severe capsid
damage and loss of production. In the project area capsid damage is exten-
sive and rehabilitation of existing cocoa would require effective capsid
control. While BHC would be effective against most outbreaks of capsid, it
is anticipated that pockets of BHC resistant capaids would occur in the pro-
ject area. In these cases, a carbamate insecticide would be used. Farmers
would be trained in spraying methods at the Cocoa Division's farmer's train-
ing school and on their own farms, where they would be formed into groups to
ensure that fairly large blocks of cocoa would be sprayed at the same time,
thus increasing spraying efficiency and minimizing reinfestation from un-
treated farms.
25.       The rate of application of BHC would be 4 ozs active ingredient
per acre in June and November with repeated applications in July and Decem-
ber to deal with capsids hatched after the first spray.  Spot spraying would
also be carried out as necessary during the year.
Swollen Shoot Virus Disease (SSVD)
26.       Part of the project area which was devastated by SSVD between 1935
and the early 1950's was systematically treated for the disease between 1950
and 1961. A considerable acreage was replanted and spread of the disease
substantially brought under control. Unfortunately, in 1962 implementation
of control measures lapsed and SSVD again began to spread through the treated
area and small isolated outbreaks are still present. The remainder of the
project area has never been treated for SSVD, and replanted cocoa has become
infected.
27.       The Cocoa Division is responsible for SSVD control throughout the
cocoa producing areas of Ghana, including the project araa. Stich control
consists of cutting out infected and contact trees and replanting them at
the beginning of the next rainy season free of charge. As no SSVD control
has been carried out since 1962, no accurate estimates for the extent of
SSVD in the project area and of the cost of consequent replanting awe avail-
able. The Cocoa Division would implement the initial cutting out of infec-
ted trees in advance of project activities and secure monthly reinspection
thereafter.
Fertilizers
28.       Fertilizer would be applied to the hybrid cocoa planted under the
project. It would be compound which would provide 60 lbs P205 and 75 lbs
K20 per acre when used at the full rate, i.e. a 0:15:18 granular fertilizer



ANNEX 2
Page 7
at 4 cwts/acre. Fertilizer would be broadcast twice yearly, in equal quan-
ties, after the canopy of the young cocoa had joined, from about the fourth
year after planting. In the fourth and fifth year the amount would be half
the full rate. After the sixth year, farmers would be encouraged to continue
with twice yearly applications of fertilizers, and seasonal loans for this
purpose would be made available to project farmers by the Agricultural Deve-
lopment Bank.
29.       For rehabilitation, the use of fertilizer is recommended on areas
yielding more than 600 lbs/acre, with an application rate of about 4 cwts/
acre. Project costs assume that 20% of farmers in the area to be rehabili-
tated would apply fertilizer.






GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
COCOA VARIETY TRAILS - TAFO
NET YIELDS, LBS DRY COCOA/ACRE
Variety           Age (Years)  3       h         5          6         7          8            9          10         11     12
Amelonado                      0        70      210        750      1,050       1,120        780        820       1,220   1,990
Series II Hybrids
Varieties to be -used
in Project. (Average
of IIA, IIH, IIJ, I131)     71      534      908       1,187      1,4h3      1,230       1,270      1,250       1,166     987
NET YIELDS, LBS DRY COCOA/ACRE
o-8       8-12
Amelonado            2,190     4,olo
Series II Hybrids    5,373     4,673
I-3






r INFORMATIO HANOD  l
PUBLIC ITY DIVISION
PROOUCE IN5PETIO
D IVISION_
ANIMAL HEALTH                                           °>C
-lvls.o  r    DIRECTOR OF
RESEARC           |-        wz 
ANIMAL HU BANDFaY                                        >3:
DIVISION                                             0N
G)
C>
I>
F 1 5HER IES ONIVSIS ION                           _                                       trTl
z
z~~~
|AGR. MECHA iI AIN                                                                                  F:_  >
|&TRANSPORT.DIVISION                                                                                > -  ,.
m
IRRIGATION  PIVISION                ESN
.         __ ~ADINVESTIGATION                                                      I   m
C)  ~~~~~~~~)-4
|TRAINING & MNOE                                   
|   DIVISION               CO        A               >                            1
AND SERVICES UNIT                                                        ;
0~~~~~
|    AGR   ECO.                                              cm 7 
MARKETl NG DVSO                                     
_           .            I     :§                -    ~ ~~        ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~ C)m 
l   __   PERSONNEL   |_ C           ~        m           n7- 
X             |        "1 ~~~~~~~ADMI NIISTRAT:ON0 L                             m           <   o
| CROP PROOUCTION    |_        ll                                                                        -
DIVISION                                                                                         0 o 
|AGR- SETTLENT                                                                                      (7)X 
DIVISION          l l1);
GHA^NA FOO                                                                                         11|6 IH
|MARKETING CORP.                                                                                    m   ZH
IBAST FIEBRE CRP,   I_119 
L__         _I  L_I ~CO-ORDINATION   n°
r 1 ~~~~~AND SERVICES UNIT Z r
|TOBACCO CO. LTO.   H                                      0 
L STAE FISING CRP.   LU
£ X3NNV






GHANA: EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
COCOA DIVISION
ORGANIZATION CHART
CHIEF COCOA OFFICER
DEPJ1Y CHIEF COCOA OFFICER
PRINCIFML AGUCULTA  OFFICER
MNCIPAL AGtlCULTUltAL SURVEY OFFICER
RDIASUIATION                                                          P.A.O.S&JSO
DISEASE & PEST CONTROL                      DEVELOPMENT                                                            AGRONOMSY                                 EXTENSION                 TRAINING
I                                                                         
LINK WITH COCOA RESEARCH INSTITUTE        COCOA STATION EXPRIMENTATION           FAtMERS TRAINING              DEPRTMENTAL STAFF
EXPERIMENTATION                    AND REDUCTION OF RESEARC
JOINT COCOA DIVISION               RESULTS FOR APPUCATION EY FARMERS
COCOA RESEARCH INSTITUTE                 (AGRICLILTURAL OFFICERS)
FIELD TRIALS
ISRD - 4739 (R) I.






ANNEX 5
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
COCOA MARKETING COOPERATIVES
Introduction
1.        The Cooperative Movement in Ghana officially started in 1928,
under the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture. By helping
cooperative members to improve cocoa husbandry and marketing, the Depart-
ment demonstrated the benefits of cooperative associations, and establish-
ed a nucleus for further cooperative development. The Cooperative Movement
prospered in cocoa areas and gradually spread throughout the country, em-
bracing other activities such as the bulk purchase of agricultural inputs,
thrift, transport, and credit facilities. In 1944, a Department of Coopera-
tives was established to enact cooperative society legislation and to con-
trol their development and operations. The Department operated successfully
until 1962 when it was abolished by the Nkrumah government, and all societies
were merged into the United Ghana Farmers Council Cooperatives (UGFCC).
UGFCC combined the roles of the previous Department of Cooperatives and
the Ohana Cooperatives Marketing Association, which was disbanded at the
same time. UGFCC lasted four years, but soon after the 1966 coup, the
Department of Cooperatives was restored under the Ministry of Labor and
Social Welfare and the Ghana Cooperatives Marketing Association resumed
its activities. During the UGFCC period, the Cooperative Movement suffered
a serious set back, and the affairs of its constituent societies and incomes
deteriorated due to bad UGFCC management and its sponsoring uneconomic acti-
vity.
The Primary Societies
2.        The basic unit of the Cooperative Movement is the primary society
organized at village level. During their Annual General Meeting the members
of a primary society elect a Committee of seven members, which includes a
President, Vice President and Treasurer. The Committee appoints a Secretary,
to manage the day-to-day operations of the society, under its supervision.
The Secretary is responsible for purchase of cocoa from society members,
book-keeping, stock maintenance and cash operations. He prepares the socie-
ty profit and loss account and the balance sheet which are presented by the
Committee to the Registrar of Cooperatives for approval.
3.        To become a member of a primary society, a farmer must be over
18 years of age and own a cocoa farm. He pays an entrance fee of NC 0.20
to 0.50 and subscribes at least one share of NC 2.00. A member must sell
his cocoa only to his society, except where prior permission has been given
by the Committee. This system works satisfactorily as long as the coopera-
tives are able to make immediate cash payments for their members' cocoa.
In practice, however, there are occasions when the societies are short of
cash and consequently members sell to other buying agents.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The primary society's main role is to purchase cocoa from its
members and to transfer it to its parent Union or directly to the Ghana
Cooperative Marketing Association. Each primary society acts as an agent
of the Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association itself a Licensed Buying
Agf.,it (LBA) of the Cocoa Marketing Board. The primary society pays the
:,ducer price (currently Ni 8.00 per headload of 60 lbs) in cash to the
irmers and the funds required for such purchases are provided by the
,hana Cooperative Marketing Association. Intended solely as a marketing
cooperative, the primary societies do not provide production inputs or
consumption goods. They may, however, act as a credit organization, by
providing short-term advances on future sales, or by granting production
loans to members for extension of their farms.
The Unions and the Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association (GCMA)
5.        The primary societies are grouped in Unions organized themselves
as cooperatives, their members being the constituent primaries. The Unions
assist in the collection and transportation of cocoa from the primary socie-
ties to Accra. They distribute funds for cocoa purchases amongst the
primaries and also provide loans, and their main role is to link the pri-
mary societies with GCMA.
6.        GCMA, with headq. rters in Accra, was formed in 1944.  After a
four year interruption between 1962 and 1966, it resumed its activities
not only as a CMB Licensed Buying Agent for cocoa, but also for the pur-
chase of other products such as coffee, copra, palm kernel, groundnuts
and rice. GCMA is a cooperative made up of its constituent Unions. It
is managed by a Director assisted by a Secretary. GCMA throughput since
its reestablishment is summarized in the following table:
1967/68                   1968/69
-----tons…------------
Cocoa                          177,245                    123,347
Coffee                           2,910                      1,337
Copra                            2,666                      1,056
Palm Kernels                         37                        37
Shea Nuts                           39                        426
Groundnuts                          -                         115
During the past two years, GCMA has been handling about 30% of Ghana's total
cocoa produ.-tion. Table 1 and 2 shows a summary of the profit and loss ac-
counts and the balance sheets of GCMA for 1967/68 and 1968/69.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        GCMA is a member of the Alliance of Ghana Cooperatives.  Membership
of the Alliance, established in 1951, includes the Ghana Cooperative Dis-
tillers Association, the Ghana Cooperative Fish Marketing Association, the
Ghana Cooperative Transport Association and the newly established Ghana
Cooperative Wholesale Agency. The main objective of the Alliance is to
promote the cooperative movement in Ghana by assisting newly established
cooperative societies; running a college for training cooperative officers;
collecting and publishing marketing and financial data useful to its members;
and representing the Ghana Cooperative movement in the International Coopera-
tive Alliance.
The Department of Cooperatives
8.        The Department is within the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
and is directed by a Registrar. The Department controls the cooperative
movement, using the legislation provided by the Cooperative Societies
Decree of 1968. Besides the registration of eligible societies, the
Department, carrying out the supervision of societies, unions and associations,
audits all cooperative accounts at least once a year, and approves balance
sheets and the allocation of bonuses. The Registrar's consent is needed for
cooperatives to grant loans above a fixed ceiling set for each society, and
if a society is mismanaged or does not fulfill its legal obligations, the
Registrar has power to dissolve the Committee, and appoint a temporary manager
to run the society for a period not exceeding two years.
9.        New societies undergo a probationary period before registration.
After applying for registration, new primary societies are supervised and
audited by the Department of Cooperative as for a fully registered society.
Full registration is granted after a period of one or two years if the
Registrar is satisfied that cooperative legislation is being applied, that
a sufficient number of members have paid in their shares and that the
volume of cocoa handled has reached at least 100 ton/year. The Department
may provide grants to meet primary society development costs, before in-
come from the first sales of cocoa are received.
10.       The Department also organizes revision courses for its own officers
and cooperative secretaries in cooperative principles, law, book-keeping and
commercial practices. The training program is staffed by cooperative offi-
cers.
Cooperatives in the Project Area
11.       The following table summarizes principal data on the nine coopera-
tives in the project area. Further details are given in Table 3 and 4.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
1967/68                  1968/69
Total      Average       Total      Average
6 societies per society 9 societies per society
Membership  (No.)                  1,370        228         1,728         192
Cocoa purchased  (Tons)           1,137         187           721          80
(Value NC)    297,210      49,545      215,448      23,960
Total expenses  (N¢)            305,639      50,951       226,191     25,232
Total income  (N.)              307,185      51,208       222,149     24,701
Profit (Loss)  (NC)               1,546         258        (4,042)       (531)
Poorer performance in 1968/69 resulted from bad weather and a resulting
diminished crop.  The tonnage of cocoa marketed through the cooperatives
was low entailing high costs per ton handled and financial losses for all
but two of the nine societies.
12.       The income of primary societies is principally that portion of
the LBA allowance passed on to them by GCMA. Such income averaged NC 7.75
per ton of cocoa handled in 1968/69 and NC 7.25 in 1967/68. Other income
accrues from such sources as the transport of cocoa and farm inputs with
hired trucks; interest on short-term advances to members and debt service
on medium-term loans for improvement of members farms. Assets of the
primary societies, consisting usually of a cocoa store and small office,
are financed with members shares. On the average members have paid in
NC 0.60 of their NC 2.00 shares. This low rate is explained by the recent
resumption of cooperatives in 1966/67 and the poor results of the 1968/69
campaign.
Conclusion
13.       Despite undoubted management weakness, and poor financial results
in 1968/69, it is felt that cooperatives in the project area, with the
assistance of project staff officers, would be able to provide the basis
for a satisfactory system of debt recovery.  A key issue, however, would
be the timely provision of funds to the primary societies for the cash
purchase of members' cocoa for which the project provides.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
GHANA
EASTERN REGION UOCOA FROJECT
Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association, Ltd.
Balance Sheet
(as at March 3L)
1968         1969
....... .. 
ASSETS
Fixed assets (net of depreciation)                    299,637      298,263
Current assets                                        938,571      653,331
Loans,and advances, members                         3,310,213    3,890,309
Sundry debtors                                        132,288        58,759
Prepaid expenses                                        9,375         53077
Cash on hand and in banks                             167, 142     171,612
Total Assets                           4L857,225    5,077,351
LIABIIaTIES
Membership contribution                               130,977       131,577
Reserves and provLsions                               267,947       516s452
Current liabilities                                    15,110      iU40,542
CMB advances                                        4,020,224    3,183,932
Government and other                                   21,454       33,500
Trading companies                                     143,816        34,501
Sundry creditors                                      e4L5,'Y9       Y3,241
Bank overdraft                                           -          933,870
Surplus                                                11,717         9,736
Total Liabilities                       4,857,225    5,077,351



ANNEX 5
TABLE 2
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association, Ltd.
Statement of Profit and Loss
(As of March 31)
1268         1969
....... N... N¢
CREDIT
Cocoa sales                                  566,453       788,287
Other produce and sundry goods               283,491        80,408
Interest on loans to members                  86,985       10,952
Rent and other earnings                       23,148        77,290
Total Credit                       960,077      956,937
DEBIT
Addministrative expenses                     452,574       545,61b
Financial expenses                           376,198      328,488
Director's fees and travel
allowance                                    9,222       12,913
Depreciation                                  99,366       29,743
Provisions                                    11,000       30,439
Net profit                                    11,717         9,736
Total Debit                        960,077      956,1937



GHANA
.ASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
1/
BASIC DATA ON FROJECT A.RA COOP-t4TIVES-
1967 - 1)68
Average per  Average per tan
SUHUM       APCNOAPONO        AXANHIA          NANKESE     KRABOA-COALTAR      KUKUA           TOTAL          society        of cocoa
,Žembers&ip  (No.)                       219            300             150               305            88               308           1,370            228
Cocoa purchased (Tons)                    236.2          151.3            90.7            397.3          140.9            120.9         1,137.3          189.6
Capital paid in (Ne)                       40.oo         107.00           44.00           30(.00         172.00            64.oo          727.0          121.2              -
Profit and Loss Account
&cpenses account
Purchases of cocoar'              61,726.15       39,539.23       23,702.63       103,826.41      36,821.40        31,594.80      297,210.61      49,545.00 '        261.33
Rents and utilities                   126.64          33.70           45.23           197.25          82.03            82.94          567.79          94.65            0.50
Aaintenance of fixed assets             -            150.60            -               50.00          61.37             1.92          263.89          43.99            0.23
Carriage and Transport                598.60        208.93            68.50           817.21         210.20            71.55        1,974.29         329.11           1.74
Wages of labourers                  1,478.65         336.59          228.08         2,019.12         619.50           413.40        5,095.34         849.39            4.48
Administrative Costs                  14.08            5.67            2.35            19.60           3.10             6.34           51.14           8.52            0.04
Committee meetings                    45.05           5.00           10.20             22.60           0.78            30.50          114.13          19.02            0.10
Miscellaneous                         23.00            5.00            -               12.25           -                               40.25           6.71            °-°4
Total (Current 3bcpenditure)    64,012.17      40,284.02       24,056.99       106.964.44      37,798.38        32,201.45      305,317.44      50,896.39          268.46
Depreciation                           31.40          12.92            7.01             6.92           -               52.00          110.24           18.38           0.09
Interest on loans                    13'.00           37.81            -                -              _               38.50          211.31           35.23           0.19
Income tax                                                             -                               -                -
Total Excpenses                 64,178.57      40,334.75       24,063.99       106,971.36      37,798.38        32,291.95      305.638.99       50,950.00.        268.74
Income
From LBA's allowance (Ne/T)             7.25           7.25            7.25             7.25           7.25             7.25            _                              7.25
Gross Income                       63,848.27      40,660.73       24,378.53       107.501.04      38,246.31        32,550.57      307,185.44       51,207.81         270.10
Profit (Loss)                        (330.30)        325.98          314.54           529.68         447.93           258.52        1.5:6,.45         257.79           1.36
Average current expendituresi
Handling Cost (NO/T)              9.68           4.92            3.91             7.90           6.93             5.12             _              6.39
Purchase (Nc/T)                 261.33         261.33                           261.33         261.33           261.33                          261.33
Total average current
exoenditure (NW/T)              271.01         266.25          26124            268.23         268.26           266.35                          267.72
1/ See also footnotes Table 14
7/ N* 7.00 per 60/lbs. or N. 261.33/r.



GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PFOJSCT
BASIC DATA ON FROJECT AREA COOPERATIVES
1968 - 1969 1/
2/                               2/                                2/                           AVERAGE
SUHUM   APONOAPONO   AMANHIA  NANKESE    KRABOA       AKORAB       KUKUA     ONYAME      CKO-ASE    TOTAL        AVERAGE    Per Ton
COALTAR              _           BEKYERE                             Per Soc.   of Cocoa
Membership (No.)                                 219        180         155        302          90        304        321          80         77        1,728        192         -
Cocoa purchased (tons)                           103.56      69.70      62.o6      159.30      86.40       83.50     112.56      32.40       11.60       721.08      80.18      -
Canital paid in 3/                                40.00     107.00      54.00      410.00     190.00       72.40      69.20      46.oo       20.00    1,008.60      112.16      -
Profit and Loss Account
Expenses Account
Cocoa purchases 4/                            30,947.87  20,829.15  18046.011 47,605.21  25,819.78  2s4,953.114  33,637.43   9,682.42   3,466.54  215,487.55  23,943.06         298.84
Rents and utilities                               58.80       2.27      111.45     157.99       36.74       2.04      97.35       51.22      37.40       555.26      61.74        0.77
Maintenance of fixed asset                         5.00      26.14      -          -             9.50      28.00      43.14      -          -            111.78      12.43        O.I6
Carriage and Transport                            99.45     164.60       96.05     640.52     122.70      560.97      28.90       24.10      11.40    1,748.69      194.45        2.43
Wages of laborers                                581.10     561.00      926.60   1,826.76      438.28   1,293.59     947.21      188.55      66.60    6,829.69      759.46        9.47
Administrative costs                             -           11.13      -            7.21       114.16      1.54      11.13       17.49      19.16        81.81       9.10        0.11
Committee meetings                                43.97      49.70       13.10      72.02      -          -           81.00        3.80      11.20       274.79      30.56        o.38
Miscellaneous                                     56.oo      _          _          -                                  50.00        9.30      61.60       197.90      22.01        0.27
Total (Current expenditures)            31,792.19  21,643.99  19,714.21  50,309.71  26,441.16  26,839.28  34,896.16   9,976.88   3,673.89  225,287.47  25,032.81          312.43
Depreciation                                      31.40      13.35        7.00       6.92       13.30     -           58.86       78.46      30.66       239.95      26.68        0.33
Interest on loans                                -          -            45-00     -           -          --                                -             45.00
Income tax                                       123.23     138.54      n.a.       225.11     n.a.        n.a.       131.79      n.a.       n.a.         618.67     154.675/      0.86
Total expenses                          31,946.82  21,795.88  19,766.21  50,541.74  26,454.46  26,839.28  35,086.81  10.055.34   3,704.55  226.191.09  25.132.34          313.62
Income
From LBA's allowance (NO/T)                        8.00       8.00        8.00       8.00        8.00        0oo       8.00        4.o00      4.00                     7.76       7.76
Gross Income 6/                               32,083.03  21,493.85  19,072.18  49,147.63  26,577.06  25,692.49  34,702.26   9,863.12   3,516.89  222.148.51  24,683.16          308.08
Profit (Loss)                                    136.21    (302.03)   (694.03) (13914.11)    122.60  (1,146.79)   (384.55)   (192.22)   (187.66)  (4,042-58)   1449.18)          (.54)
Current expenditure:  handling costs (NO/T)        8.15      11.69       18.82      16.98        7.19      22.59      11.18        9.09      17.87       -           13.59
purchase price (N9/T)     298.84      298.84     298.84      298.84     298.84      298.84     298.84     298.84      298.84       -          298.84
Total Current Expenditure(NO/T)    306.99       310.53     317.66      315.82     306.03      321.43     309.92      307.93     316.71       -          312.43
1/  Financial year ending March 31, 1969
2/ Proposed society not yet registered
3/ Ng2.00 per share.
;/ N08.00 per 60/lb
Average for 4 societies
o   Sale of cocoa to GCMA nlus a fraction of IBA's allowance.



ANNEX 6
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Introduction
1.        In April 1964, the Bank of Ghana established a Rural Credit De-
partment to study the problems of agricultural credit and to prepare the
necessary legislation, plans and procedures for the establishment of an
agricultural credit bank. In April 1965, Parliament passed an Act (Act
286) to incorporate the Agricultural Credit and Cooperative Bank. The
new Bank started its operations in August 1965, taking over the assets
and liabilities of the Rural Credit Department of the Bank of Ghana. In
April 1967, the initial Act was amended by a Decree of the National Libera-
tion Council (Decree 182), and the Bank's name changed to the Agricultural
Development Bank - (ADB).
Functions and Objectives
2.        ADB was specifically established to provide credit facilities for
the development and the modernization of agriculture and allied industries.
To achieve this purpose, ADB may either enter into loan agreements with
individuals, cooperatives and companies, or subscribe a part of the share
capital in new ventures. The Bank is also empowered to initiate or par-
ticipate in training and research facilities aimed at promoting agricultural
development.
3.        The Bank may mobilize funds by accepting deposits on saving
accounts and transact business normally confined to commercial banks. With
Government approval and guarantee, the Bank may also raise loans from inter-
national financial organizations or foreign financial institutions.
Organization, Capital and Management
4.        ADB's authorized share capital is NC 30 million (US$29.4 million)
and, although open to public subscription the Government and the Bank of
Ghana with a total paid-up capital of NC 8.55 million, are the only two
shareholders. The Bank of Ghana's contribution amounting to NC 3.5 million
was made available in cash while Government provided N¢ 3.78 million in
savings bonds (3%) and N¢ 1.27 million in cash.  There is no fixed schedule
for the paying-in of capital and the two shareholders fix each year with
ADB the amount to be paid in during the following financial year.
5.        The Bank's operations are controlled by a Board of seven Directors
representing the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture, the Bank of Ghana,
and the Department of Cooperatives. The Chairman of the Board is also the



ANNEX 6
Page 2
full time Managing Director of the Bank; he is assisted by an Executive
Director, who is also a member of the Board. Under an agreement between
the Government and USAID, ADB is being advised by an American expert in
agricultural credit.
The day to day activities of the Bank are under the control of
a Managing Director, who is appointed by the Government for a five year
period. The Bank retains the services of an independent auditor: Amorin,
Agyeman, Ayew and Co., chartered accountants with an office in Accra.
7.        There are two main Departments in the Bank, the Loans Department
and the Administrative Department which in turn are split into various
divisions. Each Department is under a Director responsible to the Managing
Director, see organization chart.
8.        Besides its headquarters in Accra, ADB has opened four branches,
in Kumasi, Koforidua, Tamale and Hohoe.
9.        The staff of ADB totals about one hundred of which 39 are quali-
fied professionals with university or post-secondary school diplomas; 21
of them having obtained degrees either in Great Britain, USSR, USA and
Germany. Although many of t ? professionals have graduated in agriculture,
only a few have adequate practical experience, and consequently the techni-
cal appraisal of agricultural projects is rather weak. On the financial
and administrative side, however, ADB's personnel is reasonably competent.
Activities and Performance
10.       As of September 30, 1969, ADB had approved 351 loans totalling
NE, 4.66 million and disbursed NE 3.96 million.  The breakdown of these loans
amongst different activities is summarized below and detailed in Table 1.
Table 2 shows the different branches of ADB that have disbursed these loans.
Number of           Amount           % of Total
Loans           ('000 NC)            Amount
Tobacco                  32                955                20.4
Sugar                    83                844                18.1
Food Crops              137                733                15.7
Fisheries                29                698                15.2
7ultry                  31                617                13.2
t't ;.~-rs 3            39                814                17.4
351             4 661               100.0



ANNEX 6
Page 3
While over 80% of existing loans have been granted through the head office
in Accra, the activities of the four other branches, which were created
after June 1967, are expanding.
11.       The loans cannot be defined into short, medium and long-term cate-
gories as the terms depend on the type of crop financed. Terms vary from
6 months for food crops and tobacco, to 7 years for cattle, and 10 years
for oil palm. Rates of interest vary between 7% and 9% according to the
length of the loan. For many loans, the annual repayment required is
expressed as a percentage of the actual gross return from the project
with a fixed minimum which varies for each individual loan. This method
results in delays in debt recovery and prolongation of loan repayment
after the established date of maturity. However, this does not explain
fully the rather poor performance in debt recovery. For loans made by
the head office in Accra, the amount overdue on August 31, 1969 represented
33% of the total amount utilized and some 20% of ADB total lendings. These
percentages could be reduced if more effective supervision was provided by
ADB's loan officers, and if an improved reporting system was introduced
which would permit a tighter control and follow-up on each individual loan.
ADB's managers, aware of this situation, intend to introduce new procedures
which should improve the debt recovery system.
12.       ADB's reserves are increasing steadily, since under the Act es-
tablishing it, net profits during first five years are paid into the Ge-
neral Reserve Account. At September 30, 1969, the reserve accounts were
as follows:
N¢
Capital Reserve                            5,959
Contingency Reserve                     121,854
Exchange Reserve                             479
General Reserve                           20,452
Loan Loss Reserve                       209,666
Project Identification Reserve           40,000
TOTAL RESERVE                 398 510
The Loan Reserve account represents 5.04% of the total approved loans and
5.28% of the utilized amounts, while the total reserve represents 9.58%
and 10.05% of the same amounts respectively. Furthermore, ADB holds, from
its borrowers, indemnities valued at some N¢ 9.5 million.
13.       In early 1968, ADB commenced accepting funds on current and
deposit accounts, both at the Head office in Accra and at all branches



ANNEX 6
Page 4
of the Bank. On September 30, 1969, 791 deposit accounts amounted to N¢
161,291.13 including N¢ 34,267.52 in savings accounts bearing interest at
3.1/2% per annum, see Tables 3 and 4.
14.       ADB has also started to finance new companies.  In a joint ven-
-.ire with the Government, the National Investment Bank and the Pioneer
i'obacco Company, ADB subscribed in March 1969, 20% the Ghana Tobacco Co.
capital amounting to NC 1 million. The latter company will process cured
tobacco purchased from smallholders, and provide local manufacturers with
tobacco required for local consumption. Also, ADB intends to enter the
cotton industry in a similar way.
IDA Credit 163-GH Fisheries Project
15.       ADB is the lending medium for IDA Credit 163-GH.  The project,
costing US$2.3 million, is providing credit to fishermen for the construct-
ion of 40 medium-sized purse seine fishing vessels. IDA's contribution of
US$1.3 million covers the foreign exchange component of vessel construction
and is being made available, together with the Government's contribution,
to eligible borrowers through ADB.
16.       After approving ehe credit worthiness of an applicant, ADB re-
ceives from the borrower - .iown payment of N¢ 11,000 (US$10,780) represent-
ing some 20% of the total cost of a vessel. ADB then credits the borrower's
account with another NC 35,000 (US$34,000) and the Boat-yard Division 1/
draws from this account the expenses it incurs in the construction of the
borrower's vessel. The Boat-yard Division will later collect debts on ADB's
behalf through the medium of a hire-purchase type arrangement.
17.       Government on-lends IDA funds and its own contribution to ADB at
6-1/2%. ADB charges the borrower 9%, pays 1-1/2% to the Boat-yard Division
for its services, and bears the credit risk from the remaining 1%. Loans
are to be repaid in six years after a one year period of grace; this is
well within the expected vessel life of 10 years.
18.       Further details on the fisheries project are given in IBRD-IDA
Report Pa-7a of September 8, 1969 - "Fisheries Project - Ghana."
'DB and the Cocoa Project
19.       ADB's role in the Cocoa Project would be very similar to that it
plays in the Fisheries Project (see para 15). ADB loan officers would
appraise the credit worthiness of each borrower and ADB's Board would ap-
ve the loan. The project development unit would then disburse the loan
1/   Branch of the State owned Company, Ghana Industrial Holding Corporation,
in charge of fishing vessels construction.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
in kind, as does the Boat-Yard Division in the Fisheries Project, and make
sure that the proceeds of the loan are properly used. Cooperatives would
collect required repayments by deductions from the sales of cocoa, and pay
these to ADB and the Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association would guarantee
the global repayment of the loans to ADB. These procedures would reduce the
credit risk undergone by ADB to a minimum. Table 5 is an estimated schedule
of the loans that ADB would make under the Eastern Region Cocoa Project.
20.       The initial establishment of a loan accounting system by the project
development unit for project participants would assist the improvement of
ADB's methods. The involvement of ADB staff together with the project develop-
ment unit in the appraisal of farmers application, and in the disbursement of
loans would give them practical experience in this type of operation and, in
addition, participation in the Cocoa Project would imporve ADB's lending
potential, and financial reserves. Besides those advantages, ADB's involve-
ment in the project would meet the declared Government policy of establish-
ing ADB as one of the main institutions for agricultural development in Ghana.
Conclusion
21.       Although ADB's record is not particularly impressive, and defi-
ciencies should be considered in the light of the difficult period in which
operations began, and when ADB was obliged by the Nkrumah regime to enter
into doubtful business with State owned corporations and cooperatives for
political reasons. The main efforts towards improving ADB's operations
should be oriented in two directions. Firstly, the practical experience
of its field staff should be increased by the recruitment of officers with
practical field experience as well as formal agricultural education and also
by improving collaboration between ADB and extension services of the Ministry
of Agriculture. This would enable ADB's staff to improve project appraisals
and supervision and strengthen personal contacts between the Bank and its
borrowers. Secondly, loan accounting, reporting systems, and internal admin-
istration of debt recovery should be reorganized to provide an accurate
up-to-date position of each loan, and enable immediate action to be taken
in case of a borrower's default.






EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
Agritulu.ral DeYe1opment Bank
Loans by Sector as of September 30, 1969
Average        % of
Number of   Amount      Amount      Amount       Payment   AmountVi/   Approved  Total Amount of
Loans     Approved   Utilized   Outstanding   to Date   Overdue       Loan      Approved Loans
Food crops              137        733         584         584           78        J2I        5.35          15.7
Sugar                    83        844        666          514          228       170        10.17         18.1
Oil palm                 14        126          52          56            3         -         9.06           2.7
Rubber                    2         1.           8          10            -         -         5.50           0.2
Poultry                  31        617        600          503          179        123       19.90          13.2
Fisheries                16        198        197          193           34        102       12.37           4.3
Cattle and Piggery        6        157        147          167           18         43       26.152/         3.4
Tobacco                  32        955         949         340          696        316        2.02-         20.5
Marketing and Agro.
Industries             13        432         287         254           29         14       33.25           9.3
Miscellaneous             4         86          16          16             5        _        21.92           1.9
Sub-total       338      4,161      3,506        2,637        1,270        910       12.31          89.3
Funds from Govern-
ment for fishing
boats                  13        500         457         416            83      n.a.       36.00          10.7
GRAND TOTAL    34561                3,963        3,053         ,353        910 3.2800
1/ Outstanding amounts after date of maturity.
2/ Excluding one grouped loan of No 892,115 to cooperatives.



GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
Agricultural Development Bank
Loans per Branches as of September 30, 1969
Start of     Nunber of      Amount       Amount        Amount        Payment    % of Total
Branch       Operations       Loans       Approved     Utilized    Outstanding    to Date           Loans
0... &....NO               ..6.....   ......... t o ...........  
ACCRA       Aug. 1965           217       3,875,468    3,314,793     2,434,308     1,260,140         83
KOFCRIDUA   June 1967           52          183,350      123,143       127,185         8,306         4
KUMASI      June 1968           29          187,709      189,468       170,586        44,278         4
HOHOE       Aug. 1968            22          54,870       45,051        44,435         4,249         1
TAMALE       Nov. 1968           31         359,758       291,245       276,136       36,122          8
Total                 351       4,661,155    3,963,700    3,052,670    1,353,095          100
ro 01



ANNEX 6
GHANA                                      TABLE 3
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
AgricuLtural Development Bank
Profit and Loss Account (*)
(NO)
1966-/       1967         1968
INCOME
Interest                                n.a.        91,329      113,254
Investment                              n.a.       183,346       24ls957
Commission                              n.a.         4,174       15,206
Miscellaneous                           n.a.         7,490         6,558
Total Income                      n.a.       286,339      376,975
EXPENSES
Salaries and social charges             n.a.        86,020       154,665
Operating expenses                      n.a.        19,600        28,123
Depreciation                            n.a.        16,650        24,700
Miscellaneous                           n.a.        24,824        31,086
Total Expenses                    n.a.       L47,094       238,574
Available Profit                        141.632      139.245       138,401
n.a.       286,339      376,975
Allocation of Available Profit
To general reserve                    136,165      132,597       129,153
Undistributed profit                    5.467        6,648         9,248
i41,632      139,245      138,401
I/  For the period Augast I, 1965 to December 31, 1966.
2/ Under the ADB Act, all profits are paid into the reserve accounts up to 1971.
(4) Unpublished information considered by ADB as confidential.



GHIANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
Agricultural Development Bank
Balance Sheets
(NO)
1966-/                     1967                      1968
ASSETS
Cash at Banks and in hand                       59,331                     139,932                  166,465
Short-term investment                          364,183                   1,534,710                1,792,712
Loans and advances:
(a  Private sector               n.a.                    1,130,025                 1,482,335
(b)  Public sector               n.a.                      354,277                   658,052
1,L41,447                  1,484,302                 2,140,387
Other accounts                                  49,904                     128,300                  176,988
Medium and long-term investment              3,380,000                   3,382,000                4,382,000
Fi.xed assets
(Net of depreciation)                         71,638                     71,637                    98,018
Castomers' liability on
guarantees                                 7,191,345                   9,889,388                9J,0oi584
Total Assets                         12.257,848                 16,630,269                18,258,154
LIABIIITIES
Paid-in capital                              4,780,000                   6,280,000                8,240,000
General Reserve Fund                            10,515                      17,163                   26,411
Deposit and other accounts
(including other reserves)                    275,988                    U43,718                   490,159
Liability on guarantees                      7,191,345                   9,889,388                9.501,584
Total Liabilities                    12,257,848                 16,630,269                18,258j154
1/ Financial year of 17 months (August 1, 1965 - December 31, 1966) -
Revised data given in the 1967 Report.
CIN



GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
Agricultural Development Bank
Estimated ADB Loan Disbursement under the Project
(NO)
1970/71   1971/72    1972/73     1973/74      1974/75-   J.1975/76    1976/77      1977/78
Disbursement
Replanting              -      )42,296   1,392,876   1,900,242   1,439,577        O,h084    345,573      114B,392
Cumulative              -      442,296   1,835,172   3,735s414  5,174h,991   5,685,075   6,030,648   64179,040
Rehabilitatiom v      61,037   407,510      816,816     603,187     153,490                    _ 
Cumulative            61,037   468,547   1,285,363   1,888,550   2,042,o40         -           -
Total Disbursement    61,037   849.,806   2,209,692   2.503,429   1,593,O67      510,084     345,573      148,392
Contingencies          3,100   47,300      124,600      141,000      85,900       25,504      17,279        7,420
Total NP + RH         64,137   897,106   2,334,292   2,644,429   1,678,967       535v588     362,852      155,812
Cuunlative              64,137 96L 243 3,295,535   5,939;964   7,618,3               81519   8,7,371   8,673,183-
1/ Last year of IDA disbursement.
2/ Total disbursement after the project period: NO l,054,252.
CP%






GHANA: EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORSl
INTERNAL A_II                MA      I                                    -  MD'S SECRETARY|
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:          l
|  LOANS DEPARTMENT       l|ADMINiSTRATIVE DEPARTMENT|
r  DIRECTOR-LOANS        l                                            DIRECTOR-ADMINISTRATION l
.                                                                   .
.. 0                                                                                      I
>-            2              0
|i  BRANCH lzl   BRANCH    } L   BRANCH    i            BRANCH    l
'WE    *9e -2 x96
8         0       0      0       l 
ghi            ~~~~0           o                                        LM
REGIONAL OFFICE
KUMASI         KOFORIDUA          TAMALE           HOHOE
BRANCH          BRNCH             BRANCH           BRANCH>
j                        ~~~~~~~xZ
Novernber 20, 1969                                                                                                   8D-42(R






GHANA
EUTgRN REGION COCOA PROJECT
pHASING °F ,,.LANTING     REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(acres)
1970/71              1971/72              1972/73              973/7h                 1974/75                       TOTAL
RP    RH       ~    RP         Hu        HF        mi         R RH                   RP015       RH            RP        RH          re.
Unit 1                                     680      600      1,360      900       1,360      900         -                                    2,400      3,1400     5,800
2                          _          680      600     1,360       900       1 ,360    900          _           -            _           2,400     3,400       5,800
Zone 1          3                                       -         -     1,360      6O0        1,360     9oo        680         900            -          2,400      3,400      5,800
( 4                        -            -        -      1,360      600       1,360     900        680         900            -           2,400     3,400       5,800
-           -        - _   _   _  1,360  600     1.360      900       680          900           -           2,400     3,400       5,800
Total Zone '                                -       1,360    1,200      6,800    3,600        6,800 B 4,500     2,0140       2,700            -         12,000    17,000      29,000
Unit 6                           -         680      600      1,360      900       1,360      900         -            -            -          2,400      3,400      5,800
7                          _          680      600      1,360      900       1,360     900          -            -           -           2,400     3,400       5,800
Zone 2   (      8                           -           -         -     1,360      600        1,360     900        680         900            -          2,400      3,400       5,800
9                          -      -              -      1,360      600       1,360      900       680          900           -           2,400     3,400       5,800
10                          -          _          -     1,360       600       1.360     900        680          900           -           2,400     3.,400      5.800
Total Zone 2                                -       1,360    1,200      6,800    3,600        6,800   4,500      2,040       2,700            -         12,000    17,000       29,000
(Unit  1                          -          680      600      1,360      900       1,360      900         -            -            -          2,400      3,400      5,800
12                          -          680      600      1,360      900       1,360     900          -            -           -           21400     3,400       5,800
Zone 3   (     13                           -           -         -     1,360      600        1,360     900        680         900            -          2,400      3,400       5,800
114                         -            -        -      1,360      600       1,360      900       680          9a)            -          2,400      3,400      5,800
15                          -          _          -      1,360      600       1,360      900       680          900           -           2,400     3,4100      5,800
Total   :e 3                                -       1,360    1,200      6,800    3,600        6,800    4,500    2,040        2,700            -          12,000    17,000      29,000
TOTAL REHABILITATION                        -       4,080         -    20,1400        -      20,400        -    6,120            -            -                    51,000
TOTA  REP?;ANTTNG                           -           -    3,600          -   10,300            -    13,500      -         8,100            -          36 (J,o
TOTAL r.      .:'  -                        _  14 08o             24,Q00             3i,200               19620                 8100                                          87.000






ANNEX 8
TABE 1
EISTERN RUIION COOOA Sj0T
PROJZt COSTS
Foreign geug                 oa
1970/71       1971/72         1972/73        1973/74         1974/75            Total          %                Total        Costs
ON FARM COSTS
Maplanting
Hired Labor                                  179.4           569.5          795.3           642.3            286.5        1.0                21'.7        2"67.8
Planting Materials                             f                                               T 577            163. 29         5 .3
Tools                                         lo. 8           32.4           40.5            24.3             1W.0        95.0               102.6           5.6
Fertilizer                                                                                   22.9              22.9       70.0                11.0           6.9
InEecticides                                  16.3            65.1          126.2           162.8             370.4       70.0               ?59.3         111.1
ar'arcv9                                      24.8            74.4           93.0            55.8            248.0        95.0               235.6         12.4
Transport                                                                                     0.2               0.2       50.0                 0.1           0.1
Sub-total Materials                        282.9           884.7        1,185.4           860.1            3213.1       28.3               908.9       2,304.2
Contingencies 10%                           28.3            88.5          118.5            86.o             321.3       28.3                90.9         230.4
TOTAL -  Replanting                          490.6         1,542.7        2,099.2         1,588.4            5,720,9      21.3             1,218.5        4502.4
Rehabilitation
Hired labor                     30.0         197.6           388.4          283.5            71.5             971.0       10.0                97.1         873.9
Plnting Materials                             36                            Ifl             1"  15r7    382                                   76.  73%0
Fertilizer                      10.1          62.2           106.6           86.9            51.4             317.5       70.0               222.3          95.2
Inoecticidee                    18.5         110.7           186.1          129.3            44.8             489.4       70.0               340.5         146.9
Sprayers                        28.1         140.4           140.4           42.1              -              351.0       95.0               333.4          17.6
Toansport                        _             0.3             1.0            1.7             2.2               5.2       So o                 2.6           2.6
Sub-total Materials           57.0         344.2           587.1          413.0           144.3            1645.6       69.5               977.3         568.3
Contingencies 10%              5.7          34-5            58.7           1a.3            14.4            154.6        69.5                97.7          56.9
TOTAL - Rehabilitation          62.7         576.3         1,034.2          737.8           230.2            2671.2       43.9             1,172.1        1,99.1
TOTAL - On Farm Costs           92.7        1P66_9         2.576.9        2.837.0         i,488.6            8392.1       28.5             2,390.6       6501.5
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION INWSTYNT
Buildings and equipment: HQ     124.1            -               -              -               -              124.4          -                               -
3 ones   89.4            -              -               -               -               89.4
15 unite  465.0                                                          -              465.0                   -
Subtotal 678.8                                                                          678.8        40.6              275.6         403.2
Vehicles,             En          937                                                       __77                              z-                 -             -
3 zones    9.9            -              -               -               9.9             19.8
15 units  168.0           54.0            -               -              49.5            271.5                            -
Subtotal 187.2              6                                           58.8            319.5        95.0              303.5          16.o
Contingencies 10%                                                                               68.14  -  _  6.8 99.8                            79    4      1.9
TOTAL - Adoaistration Inest-
mnt  952.6            70.0             -              -              75.5           1098.1        58.0              637.0         461.1
PROJEOCT ADMIniSTRATION MAINTENANCE
AND OTUATINOG WST
Buildings and equipment: HQ       6.2            6.2             6.2            6.2             6.2             31.0        20.0                 6.2          24.8
3 nones   4.5            4.5            4.5             4.5            4.5              22.5        20.0                4.5          18.o
15 units  27.8           27.8           27.8            27.8           27.8             139.0        20.0               27.8         111.2
Vehicles:               HQ         2.3           4.7             4.7            4.7             4.7             21.1        50.0                10.6         10.5
3 zones   2.5            2.5           .5.5             2.5            2.5              12.5        50.0                6.3           6.2
15 units  42.o           55.5            55.5           55.5            55.5            264.0        50.o              132.0         132,0
New Cooperative Development      11.3           1:.3                           11.3            11.3             45.2                                          4 -  45.2
Training of farners                -            20.0            20.0           20.0             -               6o.o         -                   -           6o.o
Production of seeds               3.0            3.0             3.0            3.0             -               12.0         -                   -           12.0
Sub-total                       99.6         135.5           135.5          135.5           101.2            607.3        30.9               187.4        419.9
Contingoncies 10%              10.0           1.35            1S.6           13.5            10.1             60.7        30.9                18.7         42.0
TOTAL - Operating Ctst         109.6         149.0           149.1          149.0           121.3            668.0        30.9               206.1        461.9
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION STAF
RHadquartsrs                      88.8          89.4            89.4           89.4            89.4            446.4        43.0              19° 3         2r
3 sones                           34.5          34.5            34.5           34.5            34.5            172.5        20.0                34.5       1I,8o
15 units                         126.8         142.9           142.9          142.9           142.9            698.4        20.0               139.7        558.7
150 blocks and 600 groups        317.5         793.8           793.8          793.8           793.8           3492.7        20.0               698.5        2791.2
Sub-total                      567.6        1,060.6        1,060.6        1,060.6         1.060.6           4810.0        22.0            1,063.5        3, '6
Contingencies                   56.8         106.0           106.1          10690           106.1            481.0        22.0                n,           n7.
TOTAL - Sta                    624.4        1j,66.         1.166.7         i16.6          1.166.7            5291.0       22.0             L,iAa          ;,121.
FEEDER ROAD INEVECOCT
Squip ment                      255.0            -               -                              -              255.0       100.0              255.0           -
Road resurfacing                   -            76.5            76.5                                           153.0        70.0               107.1         45.9
Sub-total                      255.0          76.5            76.5                                           W M 108.0    88.7              362.1          45.9
Contingencies 10%               25.5           7.6             7.7           _                -               40.8        88.7                36.2          4.6
TOTAL - Feeder Roads           280.5          84.1            84.2            _- _48.8                                    88.7               398.3         50.5
TOTAL PMJECT COSTS               2)590         2 ,536.6       3,976.9         4.152.6        3,172.1            898.0        30.2             so i



GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS, RXHAIDLITATION
PER ACRE ANNUAL COST TO FARMERS
(Man Days and NO)
Year 1                 Year 2                Year 3                 Year 4                 Year 5
TMD        HMD          TMD       HMD         TMD       HMD          TMD       HMD          TMD       HMD
Labor (Man-Days)                            MD/operation
S')raying Lper acre per year)                             4.5         4.5         4.5         4.5       4.5          4.5      4.5          4.5       4.5          4.5       4.5
Replanting'(25P  of acreage)                              7.5          -           -          7.5       5.3           -         -            -        -            -         -
Brashing                                                  4.0        12.0         6.o        12.0       4.8         12.0      4.o         12.0       2.4         12.0       2.4
Fertilizer application                                    1.0         1.0          -          1.0        -           1.0       -           1.0        -           1.0        -
Harvesting (per 100 lbs of incremental yield)            (3.0)                     -)        (3.0       2.1)        (9.0      6.3)       (10.5       7.4)       (10.5       7.4)
(per 4OG lbs of total yield)                  3.0         4.5         3.2          7.5      5.3         13.5      9.5         15.0      10.5         15.0      10.5
Total labor                                               22.0        13.7         32.5     19.9         31.0      18.0         32.5     17.4         32.5      17.4
Total incremental labor                                  (17.5)      (10-5)       (28.0     16.7)       (26.5      14.8)       (28.0     14.3)       (28.0      14.3)
-------_____-------_-------------------- NO --------------------------------------------
Total hired labor cost                                                       9.59                  13.93                 12.60           .      12.18                 12.18
Total incremental hired labor cost   /                                      (7.35)                (11.69)               (10.36)                (10.01)                (10.01)
Material                                             Cost/acre (Ne)
Seedlings for replacement (150/ac at NV  0.05)            7.50                     -                    7.50                    -                      -                     -
Fertilizers                                               8.70                    8.70                  8.70                  8.70                   8.70                   8.70
Insecticides (per acre per year)  /                       4.14                   4.14                   4.14                  4.14                   4.14                   4.214
Sprayer                                                  30.00                    1.72                   -                      -                     -                      -
Transport cost (per 100 lb of incremental yield)          0.01                    (-)                  (0.01)                 (0.03)                (0.04)                 (0-04)
(per loo lb total yield                   0.01                   0.02                   0.03                  0.05                   0.05                   0.05
Total zmterial                                                        14.58                 20.37                  12.89                  12.89                 12.89
Total incremental material                                           (14-57)                (20.35)               (12.87)                (12.88)               (12.88)
Total Cash Cost                                                             24.17                  34.30                 25.49                  25.07                  25.07
Total Incremental cost                                                      (21.92)               (32.04)               (23.23)                (22.89)                (22.89)
N$ 0.70 per man-day.
/ Calculated on the basis of 3/4 acre sprayed with Gamnalin and 1/4 with a carbamate
for jammalin resistant capsids.
II



GHANA
EASTERN REGICt COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT C(STS, REPIlNliG
PER ACRS ANNUAL COST TO FARMERS
(Man Days and Nf)
Year I                Year 2                Year 3                Year 4                Year 5            Year 6
THD        HND        TMD        HMD        TMD        HMD       TMD          HND       TlH                 T       HMD
labor (Man-Days)                               MD/operation
Land clearing                                                   34         34.0      23.8         _          _          _           _        _            _          _          _       _       _
Peg. cutting                                                     4          4.0       2.8         _           _
Lining and pegging                                               5          5.0       3.5         -           -         _           _        _            _          _           _      _        _
Holin                                                            9           .0        .----                                                 ----                                       --
Planting cocoa                                                               .0 899 8  8°.1
Planting shade                                                   o.0                  7.2         _           _         _           _        _            _          _          _          _
9%us ni and pruningi    4 brusbing)                      7                                                      4 16  ° .° 16.0                  6.4 16.0  .                           12.0     2.4
Spraying (per year)gj2                                           4.5        4.5       4.5         4.5        4.5        4.5         4.5      4.5          4.5        4.5        4.5    4.5    4U5
Fertilizer application                                           1          -           -         -           -         -           -        1.0          -          1.0         -      1.0      -
Harvesting (per 100 lbs of dried cocoa)                          3                      -         -           -         3.0         2.1      9.0          6.3       12.0         8.4   21.0    14.7
Filling vacancies                                                 3         _          3.5        3.0        1.5        -           -        -            -          -           -      -        -
Total labor (Man days)                                      96.5       71.2       23.5        12.4      23.5        11.4      30.5         I4.0      29.5        15.3   38.5    21.6
---------------------------------------------- N-  ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total hired labor cost (N¢O.7/MD)                                      49.84                   8.68                  7.98                   9.80                 10.70           15.12
Materials                                     Cost/acre (Ne)
Cocoa seedlings ( 735/ac at NMO.05)                             36.75                36.75                    -                     -
Replacement (15%'of 1st planting)                                5.51                  _                      5.51
Shade material plantain                                         13.50                 13.50                   -
cocoyam                                          13.91                13.91
Tools                                                             3.00                 3.00                   -                     --                                           - 
Fertilizers (per year)                                            8.70                 -                      -                     -                     4.35                   4.35            8.70
Transport of cocoa (per 100 lbs or,4 miles)                       0.01                 -                      _                     0.01                  0.03                   0.04            0.07
Insecticides (per acre per year)                                 4 414                4.14                    4.14                  4.14                  4.14                   4.14            4.14
Sprayer (unit cost)                                             30.00                  1. 7?                             -                     -                                 -               1.72
Total material                                                         73.02                   9.65                   4.15                  8.52                  8.53           14.63
Total cash cost per acre                                              122.86                  18.33                  12.13                 18.32                 19.23           29.75
/ TM   Total of nan-days required.
HMD - Number of hired man-days required
i/  Calculated on the basis of 3/4 of an acre sprayed with Gammalin  and 1/4 with a rarbarqate for GaSsealin resistant capsids.



GHANA
EASTdEiN RItGION COCOA PROJ:rf
PROJECT COSTS - HEIDQUAtRTERS
Annual                        Total          1970/71      1971/72      1972/73      1973/74      1974/75        Total       Foreign Exch   ge
Parts or ItaAns              Salary      Allowance       (Unit Cost)                                                                                                 Total
Personnel
Project i4anagar                         10,300           5,000          15,300         15,300       15,003       15,000       15,0o0       15,000        75,000       90         67,500
Deputy Project ianager (PASO)              6,00o          2,000           8,000          8,000        8,000         8,000        8,ooo        8,000        40,000      20           8,000
Financial controller                       9,005          5,000          14,000         14,000       14,000       14,000       14,000       14,000         70,000      90          63,000
Administrative officer                     3,500          1,500           5,000          5,ooo        5,0oo        5,303        5,000        5,000         25,000      20           5,000
Project Accountant                         3,250          1,500           4,750          4,750        4,750        4,750        4,750        4,750         23,750     20            4,750
Internal auditor                          1,150             600           1,750          3,500        3,500        3,500        3,500        3,500        17,500       20           3,500
Cooperative officer                        5,000          1,500           6,500          6,500        6,500        6,500        6,500        6,500         32,500      20           6,500
Senior Assistant Coop. officer (SACO)   1,250             1,100           2,350          4,700        4,700        4,700        4,700        4,700         23,500      20           4,700
Assistants Coop officers (ASC)              9g0             500           1,400          2,800        2,800        2,800        2,800        2,800         14,000      20           2,800
gnior Project officers ADB                 3,800          1,200            5,000         10,00o       10,000       10,00o       10,0o0       10,000        50,ooo      20          10,000
Junior Project officers ADB                2,000          1,000           3,000          6,ooo        6,ooo        6,0o0        6,ooo        6, Coo        30,000      20           6,ooo
Draftsman                                  1,150            100           1,250          1,250         1,250        1,25,)       1,250        1,250         6,250      20           1,250
Clerical officers                            410            100             510          1,530        1,530        1,530        1,530        1,530          7,650      20           1,530
Secretaries                                  325            100             425          1,700        1,700         1,700        1,700        1,700         8,500      20           1,700
Account typist                               325            100             425             425          425          425          425          425         2,125      20             425
General typists                              325            100             425          1,275        1,275        1,275         1,275        1,275         6,375      20           1,275
Drivers                                      575                            575          1,150         1,725        1,725        1,725        1,725         8,050      20           1,610
Office boys                                  275           -                275            550           550          550          550          550         2,750      20             550
Watchmen                                     350           -                 350            700          700          700          700          700         3,500      20              700
Total HQ Personunsl                                                         88,830       89,405        89,405       89,05        89,405       446,450      42-73      12_,790
Building and Equipmient
'Main office                                                             26,000         26,000          -                                                  26,0o0      40          10,400
Bunealows (3 bed-rooms) with furniture                                   16,ooo         48,ooo          -            -            -            -           48,ooo      40          19,200
Bungalows (2 bed-rooms) with furniture                                   14,800         44,400          -                                                  44,400      40          17,760
Office equipment and furniture                                            6,000          6,ooo          -            -            -            -            6,ooo      50           3,000
Cars                                                                      3,000          6,ooo         3,o000        -                        6,000        15,000      95          14,250
Four wheel drive                                                          3,300           3,300        6,600         -          -             3,300 C13,200            95         _12,540
Total building and equipment                                               133,700         9,600         -            -9,300                  152,600       50.56       77,150
Total Headquarter.                                                          222,530       99,005       89,405       89,405       08,705       59s,o50      44.72       267,940



GHANA
ZASTERN REGION CoCaK PROJ?CT
R1JWT LtDSxS - 3 ZOM
(NO)
Annual                          Total         1970/71      1971,'72     1972/73      1973/74    1974/75    Total         Foreign Exchange
Parts or Items              Salary       Allowance       (Unit Cost)                                                                                 I           Total
Personnel
Senior Agricultural Survey Officers    2,784            1,000            3,784       11,352C3)    11,352(3)   11,352(3)   11,352(3)  11,352(3)   56,760           20         11,352
Zone store superintendent                2,208            800            3,008         9,024(3)     9,024(3)    9,024(3)    9,024(3)   9,024(3)   45,120          20          9,024
Zone accountant                          1,488            600            2,088         6,264(3)     6,264(3)    6,264(3)    6,264(3)   6,264(3)   31,320,    20               6,264
Clerical officers                          408            100              508         3,048(6)      3,048(6)    3,048(6)    3,o48(6)   3,o48(6)   15,240         20          3,048
Typist                                     325            100              425         1,275(3)     1,275(3)    1,275(3)    1,275(3)   1,275(3)    6,375          20          1,275
Watchman                                   346           _                 346         1,038(3)      1,038(3)    1,038(3)    1,038(3)   1,038(3)    5,190         20          1,038
Office boy                                 273           -                 273           819(3)        819(3)       819(3)      819(3)      819(3)    4,095       20            819
Driver                                     564           _                 564         1,692(3)      1,692(3)    1,692(3)    1,692(3)   1,692(3)    8,460         20          1,692
Total Personnel                                                        34,512        34,512       34,512       34,512     34,512      172,560      20         34.512
Building and cquipment
Office                                                                  12,000        36,000(3)       -            -            -           -         36,ooo      40          14,400
Bungalow with furmiture                                                 14,800        44,400(3)       -            -            _           _          44,400      40         17,760
Office equipment and furniture                                           3,000         9,000(3)                                                                    50          4,500
Four wheel drive                                                         3,300         9,900(3)   _      _9_9_0                                        19_800      95         18,iO
99,300          -           -            -           -         109,200      50.80      55,170
Total Cost for 3 Zones                                                133,812        34,512       34,512       314,512     4412        281,760      31.94      89,982
_________   ________  ________  _______  ~   281,760  1.914    89,98



GLLANA
iASTESN ClGGIOii COCQA PROJECT
. ROJECT COSTS - 15 UNITS
(N¢)
Total
Annual                          Total         1970/71       1971/72       1972.73       1973/74       1974/75       f       oor    F Li chan!e
Parts or IE;ens             Salary       Allowance       (Unit Cost)                                                                          15  its             Total
Personnel
Agricultural Survey Officer              2,200          1,200             3,600        54,000(15)   54,000(15)   54,On(15)   54,000(15)   54,000(15)   27,000   20           54,000
Clerical officers                          408            100               508        7,620(15)   15,240(30)   15,240(30)   15,240(30)   15,2140(30)   68,580   20           13,716
Unit accountant                          1,008            100             1,108       16,620(15)   16,620(15)   16,620(15)   16,620(15)   16,620(15)   83,100   20            16,620
Storekeeper                                828            100               928       13,920(15)   13,920(15)   13,920(15)   13,920(15)   13,920(15)   69,600   20            13,920
Watchman                                   346           _                  346         5,190(15)    5,190(15)    5,190(15)    5,190(15)    5,190(15)   25,950   20            5,190
Drivers                                    564           _                  564       25,380(45)   33,840(60)   33,840(60)   33,840(60)   33,840(60)  160,740   20            32,148
Office Boy                                 273           -                  273         4,095(15)    4,095(15)    4,095(15)    4,095(15)    4,095(15)   20,475   20            4,095
Total Personnel                                                       126,825      142,905       142,905       142,905       1142,905      698,445   20      139,689
Building and Equipment
Office                                    -              -               12,000      180,000(15)      -             -             -             -          180,0oo   40       72,000
Store             1/                      _              -              10,000       150,000(15)      -             -             -             -          150,000   40       60,000
Temporary bungalow- with furnitijre       -              -                7,000      105,000(15)      -             -             -             -          105,000   40       42,000
Office furniture and equipment            -              -                2,000       30,000(15)      -             -             -             -           30,000   50       15,000
Four wheel drive                          -              -                3,300        49,500(15)      -            -             -           49,500        99,000   95       94,050
5-ton truck                               -              -                4,300       64,500(15)      -             -             -             -           64,500   95       61,275
Tractors and trailers                     -              -                3,600        54,000(15)   54 000(15)       -            -             -          108000   95       102 600
633,000        54, 000         -            -           49,500       736       500   6LS49
Total Costs for the                                                   759,825       196,905      142,905       142.905       192,1405    1,434,945   40.88% 586,614
15   units     -                           _ __ __                      __ ___ __
1/  Houses ould be rented wherever Dossible.  However, an average allowance is made for
villages without accommodation facilities
co



GHANA
SASTERN R-GION COCOA PROJ2CT
1IROjBCT 0=TS - 15o0 BOC1i3 AND 600 =uPS
(NO)
Annual                        Total        1970/71       1971/72      1972/73         1973/74        1974/75          Total    Foreign Elxchange
Parts or Items             Salary      Allowance      (Unit Cost)                                                                                                     Tota
Personnel
Senior Agricultural Survey                                                                     261,000(150)
Assistant                             1,140        600             1,740       104,400(60)   261,000(150) 261,000(150)   261,000(150)   261,000(150)   1,148,400    20         229,680
Field Assistant                           588        300               888       213,120(240) 532,800(600) 532,800(600)  532,800(600)   532,800(600)   2,344,320    20           468.864
Total Blocks and
Groups                                                    317,520        793,800      793,800        793,800         793,800        3,492,720    20        69



GHANA
EASTERN REGICN COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
MAINTE:NNCE SAD OPEMATI1a COSTS
Foreign E:xchange
Items                                1970/71            1971/72           1972/73           1973/74            1974/75           Total              %               Total
Headquarter
Buildings and equipment                    6,220             6,220              6,220             6,220              6,220            31,100            20                 6,220
Vehicles                                   2,325              4,725             4,725             4,725              4,725             21,225           50                10,613
Zone
Buildings and equipment                    4,470              4,470             4,470             4,470              4,470            23,350            20                 4,470
Vehicles                                   2,475              2,475             2,475              2,475             2,475             12,375           50                 6,188
Unit
Buildings and equiDment                   17,250             17,250            17,250            17,250             17,250            86,250            20                17,250
Temporary bungalows                       10,500             10,500            10,500            10,500             10,500             52,500           20                10,500
Vehicles                                  42,000             55.500            55.500             55,500            55,500            2614,000          50               132,000
Total Maintenance and 0.C.           85,240           101,140            101,140           101,140            101,140           489,800            38.23            187,241



GA_
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
FINANCING OF PROJECT COST
(Ng '000)
% of             US$
1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75    Total  Total Cost        Equivalent
Ghana Commercial Bank                291.7     300.0    350.0    350.0    208.3    1,500.0          9.44       1,470.0
Standard Bank of West Africa         291.7    300.0    350.0    350.0    208.3    1,500.0           9.44       1,h70.0
Barclays Bank, D.C.O.                291.7    300.0    350.0    350.0         208.3    1,500.0      9.44       1,470.0
IDA                                1,184.7   1,407.5  2,181.4  2,207.2   1,689.2    8,670.0        54.53       8,500.0
Government                             -       229.1    745.5    895.4    858.0    2,7280          17.15       2,673.4
TOTAL                2 9.8   2536.6  3,69   4152.6   3 172.1  15,898.0   100.00                  15 580.0
Project revenue accruing to govern-
ment during the disbursement period.
- Farmers' loan repayment             -         59.0    355.1    657.9        728.7   1,800.7      11.33       1,764.7
- Export tax on project               -         31.9    255.1    749.4  1,224.0    2,260.4         14.22       2,215.2
produced cocoa
- Surpluses accruing to CMB           -          6.1      48.8    143.3      234.1       432.3      2.72         423.7
from project produced cocoa                                               __  _
Total Revenue           -         97.0    659.0   1,550.6  2,186.8    4,493.4    28.26   -            3.6
\ CD






GHANA: EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF LABOR                                           MINISTRY
AND SOCIAL WELFARE                                       OF AGRICULTURE                                                                -,
PROJECT (
I                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STEERIN GCOMMITTEE 
SEC) 
MINIStRY OF AGRICULTURE
I                                                                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE
MINISTRYOFECONOMIC            …_              ADB
a                                                                                PPANNING
I                                              . _                        COOPERATIVE DEPARTMENT
I  ,___________ ____ _ __v  _             ______ __…      COCOA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
OF GHANA
!    COCOA MARKETING BOARD
DEPARTMENT           IPROJECT                                                                   PROJECT AUTHORITY
OF COOPERATIVES                          DIVISION                INSPECTION UNIT                  PROJECT MANAGER
ASST. PROJECT MANAGER   ____________J
FINANCIAL CONTROLLER
L…-    COOPERATIVE OFFICER
ADB LOAN OFFICER
MARKETING COOPS                  SENfOR AGRICULTURAL
SURVEY OFFICER
SASA
STORE SUPERINTENDENT
ACCOUNTANT
UNITS 5/ZONE
AGRICULTURAL SURVEY OFFICER
ASA ACCOUNTANT
BLOCK IO/UNIT                                    >
I AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANT AA                             z
4 FIELD ASSISTANTS FA    A
I BRD - 4831 (R)






ANNEK 10
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
PROJECTED SELLING PRICE FOR COCOA AND DISTRIBTiTION OF PROCEEDS
CIF New York, US cents per lb                                           .27
CIF New York, US$ per long ton                                       604.80
Insurance and freight, US$ per long ton                               36.00
FOB Ghana, US$ per long ton                                          568.80
FOB Ghana, NO per long ton                                           580.18
Export duties, NO per long ton-                                      L75.09
Net export proceeds, NO per long ton                                 405.09
Distribution of Proceeds                                       NO per long ton
Fixed price payable to farmers by LBA's-/                            298.64
Fixed allowance payable to LBA's-/                                    38.66
4/
Commission to Cocoa Marketing Company-                                 3.02
Operating costs, Cocoa Marketing Board:
(a)  Storage time allowance                    0.20
(b ?Transport, fumigation, etc.               14.64
(cJ Financial costs                           10.27
(d) Administration                             6.17                31.28
Surplus accruing to CMB                                               33.49
1/ Based on proposed new rates applying to 1970/71 season, see Annex 1, Table 3.
!/  At present rate of NO 8 per 60 lb. head load.
37 For breakdown of block allowance see Annex 8.
i  is of export contract (CIF value5






GHAJA
E&STZRN RKEION COCOA PROJFCT
REHP.BI-41TATION,    c AtI) RErURNS PM1 Ar,E
Year 1         2          3         4        5         6         7         8         9          10          11         12            13
Producticn of cocoa (lb)
Pre-developnent production                150       150         150       150      150       150       150        150      150         150         150        150           150
Incremental producti on                     -       100         300       350      350       350       350        350                              350        350           350
Total Production                          150        250        450       500       500      500       500        500       500        500         500        5             500
Financial Results
Source of Funds
Pre-development inoue                     20.00      20.00      20.00     2f0. .0                                                        20.00       20.00      20.00
Incremental Incone                          -3:.3                 1° 46.67    - i6.67    46.67    146.67           46.67   46.67         46.67       46.67      46.67        46.67
Total Inoome!/                             20.00     33.33      60.00     66.67    66.67    66.67       66.67      66.67    66.67        66.67       66.67      66.67        66.67
ADB Loana/                                 21.92     ,2.04        _         _         _         _        _            _       _           _          _          _             _
Total Source of Funds                      41.32     65.37      60.00      66.67    66.67    66.67      66.67      66.67    66.67        66.67       66.67      66.67        66.67
Application of Funds
On-farm expenditures
Pre-development                          2.25      2.26       2.26       2.18     2.18      2.18      2.18        2.18    2.18         2.18        2.18       2.18        2.18
Incremental                             21.92      32.04.    23.23      22.89    22.89    22.89      22.89       22.39   22.89        22.89       22.89      22.89       22.89
Tctal On-farm Expenditures                 24.17     34.30      25.49      25.07    25.07    25.07    25.07         25.07    25.07       25.07       25.07      25.07       25.07
Return before debt service                 17.75     3J1.07     3L.51      la.60    L1.60    41.60      41.60       41.60    41.60       41.60       141.60     41.60       41.60
Debt Service                                -        15.00      15.80      15.80    15.oJ      _         _          _         _           _          _          _             _
2/
Net Income per acre                         -        16.07      18.71      25.80    25.80    41.60    41.60         41.60    41.60       41.60       41.60      41.60      141.60
V    Cocoa at NJ 8.00/60 lb.
/   Total loan withcat interest: Ni 53.96/ac.
2/   Finmidal rate of return, calculated over 15 years, is 42.899.



GH&ANA
EiSTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
REPLANTING, COSTS ANND RErURNS PFE ACRE
(NO)
Tear 1        2        3         4        5        6         7        8         9           10          11           12          13         14         15
Production
Cocoa (lb/ac)                                         -        -       100      300      4°°      700       700       700          700         700          700        700         700        700
Plantain (lb/ac)                           -      7,200    3,600    1,800                  -         -        -         -            -           -            -           -          -         -
Cocoyam (T/ac)                             -          1
Financial Results
Source of Funds
Cocoa (Ng8.00/60 lb)                       -         -         -       13,33    40.00     53.33    93.33    93.33      93.33        93.33       93.33        93.33       93.33      93.33      93.33
Plantain sN00.01/lb)  1/                   _         72.00    36.00   18.00       -        -         -        -         -            -           -            -          -           -         -
Cocqyam  (N030.00/T)  1/                   _         30.0o    -_         -        -        -         -        -         -            -           -            -           -          -         -
Total Income                       -        102.00    36.00   31.33    40.00      53.33    93.33    93.33      93.33        93.33       93.33        93*33      93*33       93.33     93.33
Long-term loans from ADD 2/              122.86      18.33    12.13   18.32       -        -         -        -         -            -           -            -           -          -         -
Total Source of Funds                    122.86     120.33    48.13   49.65    40.00      53.33    93.33    93.33      93.33        93.33        93.33       93.33       93.33      93.33      93.33
Applicatimo of Funds
On-farm Expenditures:
Labor 3/                               49.84       8.68     7.98    9.80    10.70      15.12    15.12    15.12      15.12       15.12       15.12         15.12       15.12      15.12     15.12
Material                               73.02       9.65    4.15    8.52       8.53     12.91    12.91    12.91      12.91       12.91       12.91         12.91       12.91      12.91      12.91
Total On-farm Expenditures               122.86     1l.33    12.13   18.32    19.23       28.03    23.03    28.03      28.03       28.03       28.03         28.03       28.03      28.03      28.03
Return before debt service                 -        102.00    36.oo   31.33    20.77      25.30    65.30    65.30      65.30       65.30       65.30         65.30       65.30      65.30      65.30
Debt Service                                          -        -        46.o     8.00     12.00    33.5)    33.59       '5.59      33.59        33.39        33.59       33.59       -          -
Net Inccame 4/                             -        102.00    36.00   27.33    12.77      13.30    31.71    31.71      31.71       31.71       31.71         31.71       31.71      65.30      65.30
I/  Or?ly part of food crop incorme i3 i0 cash.
2/ lOTAL loan wdthout interest Na171.64/ac.
3/ It is estimated that a farm family would supply 32% of total labor requirements and that the rest would be hired at N,1.70/day.
4/ Financial rate of return to the farmer, calculated over 27 years, is 38.00% including food crops and 19.23% based on cocoa alone.



i.< -,I,)N -1l. A Ph,1J, 
2710J20T rASH FLCW
IMPACT ON tOVERNNFNT 8U13T
1770'71   1)71/72   1972/ 17  )73/74   1974/75   1975/76   1776'77   1977 78  1978/79   197)987   1980/81   19811/2   1992'83   1983/84   1984,'85   1985'86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989,90
3-r-vo of Funds
loc 1 barucre I                   e~~~~~~~~75@l    9YOO0  1,050@0   I,O0.(    t'?4.9  -        -         -         -        -          -         -         --______
Loal bit  io.n                              1,184.7  1,hO7.5   2,181.4  2,207.2   1,689.2        -         _        _         _                             -
Mi credit
0ccereen nt revenue
Far--vrs dent service: Prlncipal              -         54.1    321.5    581.4    672.8    651.6         381.4    16o.i    287.9    575.5    780.3    842.7    910.1           982.9    940.7    653.3    252.0
Intertst  1/           _          4.9      33.6      76.5      55.9      11.2       3.3      74.7    230.3    311.1    294.9    252.0    205.7          155.5     101.4      49.7      13.9
Petal debt s-roics                        -         59.0    355.1    657.9    728.7    662.8    381.7    234.8    518.2    886.6  1,075.2   1,094.7   1,115.8   1,138.4   1,042.1              703.0    265.9
xp-rt tax  2                                  _         31.7    255.1    749.4  1,224.1   1,539.9  1,866.0  2,308.8  2,793.8   3,173.2   3,363.1   3,363.1   3,363.1   3,363.1   3,363.1   3,363.1   3,363.1   3,363.1   3,363.1   3,363.1
li,rpi- n-cruPrg to .M8 3'                     _         6.1      48.8    143.3    234.1    294.6    356.9    441.6    534.4    606.9    643.3    643.3    643.3               643.3    643.3    643.3    643.3        643.3    643.3       643.3
i3b-otAtl                                           38.0    303.9    892.7  i.458.2   1,834.5   2,222.9  2.750.4  3,328.2   3.780.l  h 6.O          4,006.4 LboO6.4  4.006.4   4006.4   4006.4   4006.4   4 6.4    ,6.L  4,006.4
. sovevn,vnt rvevenu                     _         97.0    659.0  1,550.6   2,186.9   2,497.3  2,604.6  2,985.2   3,846.4  4.666.7   5,081.6   5,101.1   5,122.2   5,144.8   5,048.5   4,709.4   4,272.3   4,0b'6.4  4,006.4   4,006.4
rP AL 3002222                          2,C59.8  2,404.5   3,890.4  4,807.8   a,501.?  2,497.3  2,604.6  2,985.2  3,846.4  4,666.7   5,081.6   5,101.1  5,122.2   5,144.8   5,048.5   4,709.4   4,272.3   4,oo6.4   4,006.4  4,oO6.4
epplicatvon of toods
,:I-:arn 'vets                                92.7  1,066.9   2,576.9   2,837.0   1,818.6    646.3    632.6    517.5    333.0    285.3    262.4    375.4    416.4    3i0.7    285.3    262.4                 375.4     416.4    350.7    285.3
"r.nl 'a  admrlnutratien vests              1,686.6   1,385.6   1,315.8   1,315.6  1,353.5    672.2    382.2    172.3         84.4      73.6      73.6      73.6      84.4       73.6      73.6      73.6      73.6      73.6      73.6      73.6
ier reads ieprovecmet                      280.5      84.1      84.2      -         -         -        84.1      84.1    280.5        -         -        84.1      84.1      -         -          -        364.6      84.1      -         -
20tal appli-ation before debt service      2,759.8  2,536.6   3,976.9  4,15216   3,172.1  1,318.5   1,298.9    773.9    697.9    358.9    336.0    533.1    58b.9              424.3    358.9      336.0    813.6      574.1    42L.3      358.9
Debt Service
local baskic  oan                              -         75.0     129.0    192,3    255.0    292.5    292.5    739.1    739.1    739.1           739.1    739.1    739.1       739.1     79.1       -          -        -          -         -
IDA credit                                     _          8.9      19.4      35.8      52.4      65.o      65.0     65.2      65.o      65.o    151.1      150.4    149.8    19.1        143 85    147.8     11W.2    146.5    145.8    145.2  5/
rotal debt serv-ice                           _         8        1         2.    ,             3       3%          804.1    804.1    804.1    d9t3.2    889.5       b88.97    8813.2    88l7.6     147.8    147.2      16.5         5.8    145.2
TOTAL APPLICATION                      2,059.8   2-om.j  4,125.)   4,380.h   3,4179.7  1,76.0   1,956 4  1,578.0  1,502.0   -L.63.0   I >76-   1,h776   1 ),71-8    11,.Ma5 C  1               483.8    96o.8       720.6    570.1      5'4.1
N.T dASH FLBW                                     1_216.01     ( 23la                     827.3  1,1.2 1,407.2  2,344L      .  3,503.7     3     ,     a. 3 ,678. C    . 3 .4  3.502.3
aUMISLATIV&                               -       (.2.011)   (450.9)   (23.5)    998.9  li920.2   2,9168.4  4,375 5     72O.O  10,223.7  14,0791.  17.757.6  2A.4jb.O  25.238.3  29.060.3   3,a26L.9  36-q77.h  396.t    ,1L299.i5 h.6.80 -
1/ Net yr ASB and CMCA -nesis-in, ann of funds required for the fertili-er recurrent funds.
2/ Calcalated at tie equivalent of US$ 0.27 lb N.Y. spat price.
3/ Difference botn.an the f.o.b. price and thi  total of farmer price, LBN  atlowance, PM3 costs and export taxes.
4/ Financial rat. of eturn is 17.46%.
5/ Approxivatoly NO 7.5 -lli-s eould re-a,-  te o repaid -ver the paesi r, 10/91 to 2019/2020.






ANNEX 13
GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
1.        Table 1 shows the calculation of the economic rate of return
from investment in the project; Table 2 shows the calculation of the
economic rate of return from investment in the replanting component of
the project under the assumption that replanting would bear all project
administration and overhead costs; Table 3 shows the calculation of the
rate of return from the rehabilitation component under the assumption
that this could be carried out with 30% of total project expenditures
on administration and overheads.
2.        The following assumptions and inputs have been used in the
above calculations:
(a) Project life
(M) The life of the replanting component of the project
is assumed to be 25 years as from Project Year 1. Thus
farms replanted under the project and which would come
into bearing in the fifth year would produce benefits
for periods ranging from as high as 20 years for farms
established in Project Year 2, to as low as 16 years
for those established in Project Year 5.
The life of the rehabilitation component of the
project is assumed to be 15 years, and thus benefits
from cocoa farms rehabilitated in Project Year 1 accrue
for 14 years, and those farms treated in the last year
of rehabilitation (Project Year 4) for 10 years.
(b) Costs
(M) On-farm investment and operating costs
These have been developed basically from Tables 2
and 3 of Annex 8, which give a breakdown of these costs
on a per acre basis. A contingency of 10% on the costs
of materials has been included in the rate of return
calculation. On-farm costs include the cost of hired
labor. In rehabilitation, as shown in Table 2 of Annex
8, and in replanting, Table 3 of Annex 8, the percentage
of total labor requirements assumed to be supplied by
hired labor varies from year to year in line with labor



ANNEX 13
Page 2
needs. It is assumed that for rehabilitated cocoa hired
labor would meet about 52% of all labor needs, and in
the case of replanted cocoa 63% in the development period,
and 56% thereafter. The cost of hired labor is assumed
to be NO 0.7/man-day, the present official minimum wage.
No cash, or economic cost is attributed to family labor,
see para 2b(v). The full costs of insecticides, sprayers
and fertilizers are taken account of in on-farm costs,
although participating farmers would obtain these at
subsidized prices.
(ii)   Treatment of incremental on-farm costs under
rehabilitation
Rehabilitated farms would be in production prior to
the project; costs attributed to the project are those ad-
ditional incremental costs incurred (labor and materials)
in rehabilitating the farm and maintaining it in its im-
proved and higher yielding condition. These incremental
costs are shown in Annex 8, Table 2.
(iii) Project Administration
All project administration costs, both capital and re-
current arising from implementation of the project and in-
cluding the costs of extension services are taken into ac-
count. No residual value is attributed to Government assets
created under the project. The costs of project administra-
tion are detailed in Annex 8, Tables 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8.
(iv)   Marketing costs
The full costs of moving project-produced cocoa from
farm-gate to FOB Ghana are taken into account. These costs
on a per long ton basis are shown in Annex 10.
(v)    Family labor costs
No economic cost is attributed to family labor in view
of the high level of unemployment and underemployment in
Ghana. Nevertheless, an allowance for hired labor is made
which is considered generous, see para 2b(i). However, if
total labor required is costed at the official minimum wage
rate of NO 0.70/day, the different rates of return are re-
duced by about 3%.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(vi)      Road improvement and maintenance
The cost of road improvement, see Annex 8, Table 1,
and subsequent maintenance is not taken into account. It
is believed that road user savings alone would justify
these expenditures.
(c) Benefits (No benefits are assumed from food crops)
(i)       Food Crops
While no benfits from food crop production are in-
cluded in the calculation, if 50% of potential food crop
production is included, all rates of return would increase
by about 2%.
(ii)      Yields from rehabilitated farms
Incremental yield benefits are used. These are assumed
to be 100 lb/acre in the year following the start of rehabili-
tation, 200 lb in the second year, and 350 lb in the third and
subsequent years. The yield without rehabilitation is esti-
mated at 150 lb/acre. See para 8.01 of main report, and Annex
11, Table 1.
(iii)     Yields from replanted farms
Replanted farms are assumed to begin to yield in their
fourth year, and production would increase to 700 lb/acre in
the seventh year and remain at this level throughout the life
of the project. See para 8.02 of the main report, and Annex
11, Table 2.
(iv)      Prices
An f.o.b. price equivalent to US$ 27 cents/lb CIF New
York is assumed.






aHM
SASTE  REGION COCOA PROJCT
ENOKE RATE w RET1RN
1970/71   1971/72    1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79    1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983-1995
Oni-Farm Develoyo_nt
Replanting (From  Table 3)             -        490.6   1,542.7   2,009.2   1,588.4       647.4      784.9   1,039.0   1,217.1   1,269.9   1,212.7   1,238.1   1,288.9   15,207.9
Rehabilitation (From Table 2)         62.7      576.3   1,103.0   1,149.2       978.6     933.8   1,046.8   1,046.8       946.1     902.9      810.5      810.5     810.5    2,431.5
Sub-total                        62.7   1,066.9   2,645.7   3,158.4   2,567.0   1,581.2   1,831.7   2,085.8   2,163.2   2,172.8   2,023.2   2,048.6   2,099.4   17,639.I
Project Admizietration
Staff, construction and equip,l;t,
and cooperative developent        1,686.6   1,385.6   1,315.8   1,315.6   1,353.5       672.2      382.2     172.3       84.4      73.6       73.6       73.6      84.4       912.0
1Srketint
LBL allowance                          -          7.0       56.3     165.5      270.3     340.1      412.2     510.0      617.2      701.0     691.7      691.7     691.7    5,989.1
CMB operating costs                    _          6.3      50.2      147.3     240.6     302.9      365.0     454.1      549.5      624.1     615.8      615.8     615.8    5,332.2
Sub-total                        _         13.3      106.5      312.8     510.9      643.o     777.2      964.1   1,666.7   1,325.1   1,307.5   1,307.5   1,307.5   11,321.3
Total Cost                    1.1749.3   2,465.8   4,068.o   4,786.8   4,431.4   2,896.4   2,991.1   3,222.2   3,414.3   3,571.5   3,404.3   3.429.7   3.491.3   29,872-7
Sales Proceeds                           -        105.6      845.4   2,483.3   4,056.1   5,103.4   6,194.0   7,662.5   9,270.7  10,529.1  10,379.1  10,379.1  10,379.1   87,874.8
Ann-a Surplu (Deficit)               (1.749.3) (2,360.2)  (3,222.6) (2,303.5) (  375.3)  2,207.0   3,202.9   4,440.3   5,856.4   6,957-      6 6,974.8  6,949.4   6,887.8   58,002.1
Economic Rate of Return     25.9%



GHANA
EASTERN REGIONA COCOA PROJECT
REHABILITATION - ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(NOI '-00)
1970/71     1971/72     1972/73     1973/74     1974/75      1975/76     1976/77     1977/78     1978/79      1979/80     1980-1985
On-Farm Development
Investment                                     62.7       576.3    1,034.2         737.8       230.2                    -            -           -                  -
Operating costs                                -           -           68.8        411.4       748.4       933.8     1,0I6.8      1,o46.8       946.1       902.9       4,863.3
Sub-total                                 62.7       576.3     1,103.0      1,149.2       978.6       933.8     1,046.8      1,046.8       946.1        902.9      4,863.3
Project Administration 1/
Staff, construction and equipment             501.2       416.5        394.4       394.4       406.1       201.6       l.2         51.7        25.3         22.1        114.5
Marketing
LBA allowance                                  -             7.0        56.3       165.5       264.1       302.8        308.1       308.1       308.1        308.1      1,540.5
CM operating costs                                          6.3        50.2        147.3       235.1       269.6       274.3        274.3       274.3       274.3       1,371.5
Sub-total                                 -           13.3       106.5        312.8       499.2       572.4       582.4        582.4       582.4       582.4       2,912.0
Total Cost                               563.9    1.0060.9                   156.14                 1707          743.4         809      16553.8      107&         7.889,8
Sales Proceeds                                   -          105.6        845.4     2,483.3     3,962.7     4,544.1      4,623.2     4,623.2     4,623.2      4,623.2     23,116.0
Annual Surplus or (Deficit)                     (563.9)     (900.5)     (758.5)      626.9     2,078.8     2,836.3      2,879.8     2,952.3     3,069.4      3,115.8     15,226.2
Economic Rate of Return (%)         55%
I/ Assumes 30% of total project adninistration costs.



GHANA
EkSTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
REPLANTING - SCCNOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(No - noo)
1970/71   1971/72   1972'73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983-1995
On-Farm Development
Investment                                     -        490.6   1,542.7  2,099.2   1,588.4   V 575.i    455.7    325.2          -          -         -         -         -
Operating Costs                                -          -         -          -         -        72.3    329.2      713.8   1,217.1   1,269.9   1,212.7   1,238.1   1,288.9    15,207.9
Sub-total                                 -        490.6  1,542.7   2,099.2   1,588.4    647.4    784.9  1,039.0   1,217.1   1,269.9   1,212.7   1,238.1   1,288.9    15,207.9
project Administration I/
Staff, construction and equipment,
and cooperative development               1,686.6   1,385.6   1,315.8   1,315.6   1,353.5      672.2    382.2      172.3      84.4       73.6      73.6      73.6      84.4        912.0
Marketing
LBA allowance                                  -          -          -         -         6.2      37.3    104.1      201.9    309.1       392.9     434.9     434.9      434.9     5,218.8
CMB operating costs                            _          -          -         -         5.5      33.3      92.7     179.8      275.2     349.8     387.2     387.2      387.2     4,646.4
Sub-total                                 -          -          -         -        11.7      70.6    196.8      381.7    584.3       742.7     822.1    822.1       822.1     9,865.2
Total Cost                             1,686.6   1,876.2   2,858.5  3,414.8   2,953.6  1,390.2  1,363v'9  1,593.0  1,885.8   2,o86.2   2.1084   2,133.8   2,195.14   25, 5.1
Sales Proceeds                                   -          -          -         -        93.4    559.3  1,561.8   3,030.3   4,638.5   5,896.9   6,526.4   6,526.4  6,526.4    78,316.8
Annual Surplus or (Deficit)                   (1,686.6) (1,876.2) (2,858.5) (3,414.8) (2,860.2)   K830.9)    197.9   1,437.3   2,752.7   3,810.7   4,418.0   4,392.6   4,331.0    52,331.7
Economic Rate of Return (,)         15.13%
1/ Includes 100% administration costs.






oX OZT'                                                                                                 ois'              GHANA
EASTERN REGION COCOA PROJECT
Swirenkylren  D e n s u s   Enkum                 \                                                                         _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Unit boundaries
g            ~~~~Bretema                  AdrwKNAKS^                                                                                                                 Zone  headquarters
s              ~~~~U N I    I\ 1                                 CiTriao                 /                                                                         Main roads
_J                    ~~~~~~Kab Hilt                                                                                                P AboautI  n                          Railways          wRjpt
t                       _Ornena~~ ~ ~                ~      ~         ~~ko                                                                                                             i,    2<  ,t
AtiebuO          OKponkpron           (                                                       U N I T   7                f                                               W       
/   U N I T   3              \\;_ _ _ _                      +~~~~~~Aanh                               Supres                      U N I T 8                     
S                  ~~~~~~OAbesim            XU      UM                                      Kwanbn   w hia Trayo        g                                        >                      Okorasi       
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oAbuau                                                                                                                                                          N I v               V/ T   9)
EODomi   ogOkaratr      p6               8;orasi          ~~~~~U N I T  6                                           a l\e o uKkr\~                                              Auoya 
Sowoteyetenasi                                                 \
-6'00 '-9            Sowatey                       0Tbou                                                               t                                              Koransang Atlebu              3\D                                 ¢n°
U N I T   4                                               Aoai                                                osrntromukuo                             OKoransang Dedewa o                  /    _      \ 
/ n g OWrJrobenya\ < U N I T 1 2 5      />J                                                          OT                                                     A
~/  \   l   KukosuO  Budumonkron                                                                                                   T                    Wb        L   \
\ILES                                                                                                                                                                                 -.Iflternotronol b\ ndoeMnkron  SontramaAw\
dulmcdurno-                       9   Kukosui~ \°Wawasi                                                                                                                                                      20 
CfoForn KoJsie               i miherez      /1                                               U N I T    I13               \~> .fU N I T   1 0                                                                         4
/     oAbude Oborgo        oAnom          kAsuboi                                             \/ P                                                                                        ,
IU N   I  O 1E                  0t5 0 Krowa   U N I T   1 4                                     0Ei E6Dedewo
_     Dokrochiwo                          V\\                                                                                              _
FILOMETERS               ~~~~0 27                                                                                                 0918O  !AO6wCETR
FEBRuARY 1970IBO82



