CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 205 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Eastern Region Cocoa Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
0
CREDIT NUMBER 205 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Eastern Region Cocoa Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1970, between REPUBLIC
OF GHANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) " ADB " means the Agricultural Development Bank,
established by the Agricultural Development Bank Act;
(b) "Agricultural Development Bank Act" means the
Agricultural Credit and Co-operative Bank Act, 1965 (Act
286), as amended by the Agricultural Credit and Co-opera-
tive Bank Act, 1965 (Amendment) Decree, 1967 (N.L.C.D.
182), dated June 22, 1967;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agree-
ment referred to in Section 4.04(a) of this Development
Credit Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and ADB, as the same may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and ADB, with the
approval of the Association;


﻿4
(d) "Project Development Unit" means the unit within
the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower referred to in
Section 4.02(a) of this Agreement;
(e) "GOMA" means the Ghana Cooperative Marketing
Association;
(f) "GCMA Guarantee Agreement" means the agree-
ment to be entered into between GCMA and ADB on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association whereby
GCMA will guarantee payment to ADB of amounts due on
sub-loans made by ADB pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g) "Registrar" means the Registrar of the Department
of Cooperatives in the Ministry of Labor and Social Wel-
fare of the Borrower; and
(h) "cooperative" means a primary cooperative society
organized under the Co-operative Societies Decree, 1968
(N.L.C.D. 252), as amended.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to eight million five hundred
thousand dollars ($8,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-


﻿5
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or
by further agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the
Credit Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
or services required for the Project and to be financed
under this Development Credit Agreement;
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services in-
cluded in Categories I, II and III of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of eighty-two per cent (82%) of
such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) (A) for goods or services
included in Category IV of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement and (B) in respect of sub-loans
included in Category V of such allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for goods or services included
in Category IV or in respect of sub-loans included in Cate-
gory V, the Association may by notice to the Borrower
adjust the stated percentage applicable to such Category
as required in order that withdrawals of the amount of
the Credit then allocated to such Category and not with-
drawn may continue pro rata with the payments remaining
to be made for items included in such Category.


﻿6
SECTION 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
made under Categories I, II or III of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement on account of payments in the currency of the
Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and D%ecember 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1980 and ending
June 15, 2020, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1  %) of
such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds
of the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provisions
of this Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on
the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿7
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of (i)
the Credit and (ii) sub-loans in respect of which with-
drawals from the Credit Account under Section 2.03(ii) (B)
of this Agreement are made shall be procured in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to
be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound administrative, financial, agricultural
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
SECTIoN 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish and
maintain within its Ministry of Agriculture a unit to be
responsible for the execution of the Project. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Development Unit (i) to be operated in accord-
ance with the functions and powers, and to be provided
with the staff, specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement
and (ii) to maintain separate and distinct accounts reflect-
ing expenditures on, and the results achieved by, the
Project.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(i) the persons proposed for appointment to the posts
of the Project Manager, the Deputy Project Man-


﻿8
ager and the Financial Controller of the Project
Development Unit, their terms of reference and the
terms and conditions of their employment shall,
until the completion of the Project, be acceptable
to the Association; and
(ii) the Borrower shall consult the Association about
any proposed appointment to the position of Coop-
erative Officer of the Project Development Unit
sufficiently in advance of any such appointment for
the Association to have adequate opportunity to
comment )n the qualifications and experience of the
person, or persons, the Borrower is considering
for such position and shall make any such appoint-
ment only after consideration of the views ex-
pressed by the Association.
SECTION 4.03. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon
the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall establish or cause to be established a bank ac-
count (hereinafter called the Project Account) to be used
exclusively to make payments for the cost of goods and
services required on the part of the Project Development
Unit to carry out the Project. The Borrower shall deposit
or cause to be deposited in the Project Account all amounts
as shall be, from time to time, required on the part of the
Project Development Unit to permit the payments here-
tofore specified to be made, promptly as needed, out of
the Project Account.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall make
or cause to be made an initial deposit in the Project Ac-
count in the amount of 250,000 New Cedis (NIZ250,000) and
thereafter shall on a quarterly basis make or cause to
be made deposits in the Project Account in such amounts
as shall be sufficient to meet payments for the costs of the


﻿9
Project required on the part of the Project Development
Unit to cover the forthcoming three months of such costs
as estimated by the Project Manager of the Project De-
velopment Unit.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall lend to ADB in
the currency of the Borrower amounts aggregating up to
$8,500,000 equivalent from the proceeds of the Credit and
from other funds available to the Borrower. Such loan by
the Borrower to ADB shall take the form of transfers and
disbursements by the Project Development Unit to farmers
participating in the Project of (i) insecticides, sprayers,
fertilizers, cocoa seedlings and other planting materials in
kind and (ii) funds for hired labor, such transfers and dis-
bursements being financed for the respective farmer by
credit arrangements between the farmer and ADB. Such
loan by the Borrower to ADB shall be on terms and con-
ditions, and pursuant to a subsidiary loan agreement, satis-
factory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such a manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, assigning, abrogating or waiv-
ing any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall establish and main-
tain a Steering Committee, having terms of reference and
a membership acceptable to the Association, to coordinate
the work of the ministries, agencies and organizations in-
volved in the carrying out of the Project and to oversee
the progress of the Project.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identfy the goods and


﻿10
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and financial condition with
respect to the Project of the agency or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project
or any part thereof, and shall enable the Association's rep-
resentatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents.
SECTION 4.07. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and
the Association shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition with re-
spect to the Project of the agency or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or
any part thereof, and other matters relating to the pur-
poses of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such relevant information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit, the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds, the Project, the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition with respect to the
Project of the agency or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof,
and the general status of the Credit. Such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.


﻿9
11
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall have the accounts:
(i) of the Project Development Unit audited annually
by an independent accountant or accounting firm
acceptable to the Association; and
(ii) of the cooperatives participating in the Project
audited annually by the Registrar;
and shall promptly after audited financial statements (bal-
ance sheet and related statement of earnings and expenses)
of the Project Development Unit and of such cooperative
societies are available, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, not later than four months after the close
of the financial year to which they apply, transmit to the
Association certified copies of such statements and signed
copies of the related auditors' reports.
SECTION 4.09. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
cause to be insured, the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.


﻿12
SECTION 4.10. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, prior
to the commencement of the execution of the Project, initial
Swollen Shoot Virus Disease control measures throughout
the Project area and shall thereafter carry out accepted
and further measures for the control of Swollen Shoot
Virus Disease and provide within the Project area such
materials and services as are normally provided by the
Cocoa Division of the Borrower without cost to other cocoa
farmers in the Borrower's territory.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that the subsidies paid
by the Borrower on cocoa production inputs will at all
times take into account the need to provide Project partici-
pants with a sufficient incentive and the opportunity to
earn an adequate return on farm investments to ensure
satisfactory loan repayments to ADB. The Association will
be informed, and given an opportunity to comment, prior
to any changes being made in the existing subsidies on
fertilizers, insecticides and sprayers.
SECTION 4.11. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Cocoa Marketing
Board and GCMA make available to cooperatives in the
Project area promptly as needed the financing required by
such cooperatives to purchase the cocoa produced by the
Project.
SECTION 4.12. The Borrower shall cause the feeder roads
included in the Project to be adequately maintained and
repaired in accordance with sound engineering practices.
SECTION 4.13. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿13
SECTION 4.14. This Development Credit Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such declara-
tion such principal, together with such charges, shall be-
come due and payable immediately, anything in this De-
velopment Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) A default shall occur in the performance of any ob-
ligation of the Borrower or of ADB under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and such default shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower.
(b) A default shall occur in the performance of any ob-
ligation of GCMA under the GCMA Guarantee Agreement,
and such default shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower.


﻿14
(c) Before the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have
terminated in accordance with its terms, the Agricultural
Development Bank Act shall have been amended, so as to
affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the
Project or the operations or financial condition of ADB,
and such event shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower.
SECTIoN 5.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified:
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ADB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meanirg of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) The Borrower and ADB have entered into the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, in form satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has become
fully effective and binding on the parties thereto in accord-
ance with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this
Development Credit Agreement;
(b) GCMA and ADB have entered into the GCMA
Guarantee Agreement, in form satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, and the GCMA Guarantee Agreement has become fully
effective and binding on the parties thereto in accordance
with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this
Development Credit Agreement;


﻿15
(c) The Project Development Unit shall have been es-
tablished with the functions and powers set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, and individuals acceptable to the
Association shall have been appointed to the posts of
Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager and Financial
Controller of the Project Development Unit;
(d) The Steering Committee referred to in Section 4.05
of this Agreement shall have been established under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and
(e) Arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall
have been made for the financing of the portion of the
Project not financed by the Credit.
SECTIoN 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on be-
half of, the Borrower and ADB and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower and ADB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the GCMA Guarantee Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, GCMA and ADB and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of GCMA and ADB in accordance with
its terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of November 1, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.06, 4.08, 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12 of this Agreement
shall terminate on the date on which this Development


﻿16
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years
after the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1975 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P. O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
Prudence
Aocra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.


﻿9
17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ E. M. DEBRAH
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿18
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                         in Dollar Equivalent
I. Equipment and vehicles                  1,230,000
II. Fertilizers                              238,000
III. Staff Costs of Project Manager and
Financial Controller in Project
Development Unit                          200,000
IV. Project Development Unit buildings        543,000
V. Sub-loans made by ADB to Project
area farmers for insecticides, hired
labor and planting materials pursuant
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement        5,410,000
VI. Unallocated                               879,000
TOTAL       8,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to V shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category VI.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of
the Categories I to V shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of
Categories IV and V, an amount equal to 82o of such
increase) will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from Cate-
gory VI, subject, however, to the requirements for con-
tingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect
of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is located in the central zone of the Eastern
Region of Ghana and consists of:
A. The rehabilitation of approximately 51,000 acres of
existing cocoa plantings through the use of fertilizers, the
control of capsids, the replanting of vacancies and the im-
provement of farm maintenance;
B. The replanting of approximately 36,000 acres with
high yielding cocoa seedlings and bringing these to ma-
turity through, among other measures, the planting of plan-
tain and cocoyam for temporary shade, the control of cap-
sids and the use of fertilizers;
C. The provision of credit to farmers in the Project area
for the rehabilitation and replanting of cocoa;
D. The provision of training in capsid control and the
use and maintenance of spraying machines for approxi-
mately 6,000 Project area farmers at schools operated by
the Cocoa Division;
E. The establishment of 15 new cocoa marketing coop-
eratives in the Project area and the provision of technical
assistance to these new cooperatives and to nine existing
cooperatives;
F. The establishment and staffing of a Project Develop-
ment Unit; and
G. The improvement of about 100 miles of feeder roads
in the Project area in accordance with a program to be
agreed annually between the Project Development Unit
and the Public Works Department of the Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods Referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement
1. The equipment, vehicles and fertilizers referred to in
Categories I and II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall
be procured on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement
ii-rer World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-ts, published by
the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with such other
procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 3 below. The equipment for feeder road im-
provement to be financed under such Category I is listed
in the Exhibit to this Schedule 3.
2. With respect to contracts for procurement of such
goods estimated to cost in excess of $10,000 equivalent:
(a) Invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of con-
tract, all other tender documents and the method and places
of advertising will be submitted to the Association for its
review and approval prior to the issuance of invitations
to bid.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the
analysis of the bids, and the proposals for awards, together
with the reasons for such proposals, will be submitted
to the Association for its review and approval prior to the
Borrower's making any award of contract or issuing any
letter of intent.
(c) If the final contract is to differ substantially from
the terms and conditions contained in the respective docu-
ments approved by the Association under paragraphs (a)
and (b) above, the text of the proposed changes will be
submitted to the Association for its review and approval
prior to the execution of such contract.


﻿21
(d) As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a
contract has been executed, a copy thereof will be sent to
the Association.
3. With respect to contracts for procurement of such
goods estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less, copies
of all documents, including the invitation to bid, the tender
documents and the bid analysis and evaluation, will be sent
to the Association promptly after the execution of any such
contract and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal from the Credit Ac-
count in respect of such contracts.
4. Contracts for Project Development Unit buildings
shall be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding.
5. The insecticide to be used by Project area farmers
shall be "Gammalin" or other insecticide satisfactory to
the Borrower and shall be procured from the Project
Development Unit.
6. Cocoa seedlings and other planting materials shall be
procured from Project nurseries maintained by the Project
Development Unit.


﻿22
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 3
Equipment for Feeder Road Improvement
Machine               Type                        Number
Grader                Construction (150 hp)         1
Grader                Maintenance (110 hp)          1
Trucks Tipper         5 Ton                         8
Fore End Loader       Wheeled                       2
Roller                Pneumatic 10 Ton              2
Truck                 Water Tank                    2
Dozer                 Flywheel hp 120               1


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Functions and Powers
and
Staff for the Project Development Unit
A. Functions and Powers
The Project Development Unit shall be responsible for
the carrying out of the Project on behalf of the Borrower
and shall exercise the following functions and powers:
(a) to approve all staff seconded to the Project Devel-
opment Unit prior to secondment, and to return
seconded staff to their respective establishments at
any time;
(b) to employ and discharge all monthly and daily paid
staff as required for the proper carrying out of the
Project;
(c) to conclude such contracts and transactions as it may
deem proper with the prior approval of the Min-
ister of Agriculture;
(d) to open such bank accounts as are required for the
proper execution of the Project;
(e) to keep proper books of accounts and proper rec-
ords, and to appoint an external auditor for the
auditing of its accounts and for the discharge of such
other accountancy and audit functions as it may
determine;
(f) to maintain its own transport facilities;
(g) to furnish quarterly reports of its activities to the
Association and the Borrower; and
(h) to furnish a report of its activities during the preced-
ing financial year together with an audited statement
of accounts in respect of that year to the Association


﻿24
and the Borrower not later than three months after
the end of the financial year.
B. Staff
The Project Development Unit shall be directed by a
Project Manager who shall be responsible, through the
Principal Secretary of the Ministry, to the Minister of
Agriculture. The Project Manager shall be assisted by a
Deputy Project Manager, a Financial Controller and a Co-
operative Officer.
The Cooperative Officer shall be seconded to the Project
Development Unit from the Department of Cooperatives.
He shall be assisted by three Assistant Cooperative Offi-
cers, also seconded from the Department of Cooperatives.
The Cooperative Officer shall have exclusive control of the
cooperatives in the Project area.
The following staff shall be assigned to the Project
Development Unit by the Ministry of Agriculture:
Project Year in
which required
Title                        Number     1        2
Senior Agricultural Survey
Officers (SASO)                    3        3      -
Agricultural Survey Officers        15        6       9
Agricultural Assistants (AA)       150       60      90
Field Assistants (FA)              600      240     360
Four Loan Officers shall be seconded to the Project De-
velopment Unit from ADB.


