Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15588
DMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
(Credit 2002-ET)
April 29, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit            Ethiopian Birr
US$1.00            =     Birr 2.07 (March 1989)
Birr 6.20 (mid 1995)
Birr 1.00                US$0.48 (March 1989)
US$0.16 (mid 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)              =      3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)         =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km )    =      0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)           =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)     =      2,204 pounds (Ibs)
ABBREVIATIONS
ABB           =    African Development Bank
CDE           -    Chemin de Fer Djibouto-Ethiopien
ECEA          =    Ethiopian Customs and Excise Administration
EFTC          -    Ethiopian Freight Transport Corporation
EIB           -    European Investment Bank
MOTAC         =    Ministry of Transport and Communications
MTSC          =    Maritime and Transit Services Corporation
RTA           -    Road Transport Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2002-ET)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ................................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ..............................................................                                            ii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................1
Objectives ...............................................................1
Assessment of Objectives ................................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES ...............................................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE  PROJECT .........................................................4
Road Transport .........................................................4
Maritime and Transit Services Corporation .................................................6
Ethiopian Customs and Excise Administration (ECEA) .............................6
Institutional Development and Training ......................................................6
Port of Assab ...........7
CDE ........7
Factors influencing the Implementation Record ........................................7
D. SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROJECT ........................................8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ........................................8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................9
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



G. ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ......................................................                               9
H. FUTURE  OPERATIONS ......................................................                                  10
I. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................                                10
PART  II  - STATISTICAL  TABLES ............................................................                            11
TABLE  1: SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ..................................................... 11
TABLE  2: RELATED  BANK  LOANS/CREDITS .............................................. 12
TABLE  3: PROJECT  TIMETABLE ......................................................                           13
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE
ESTIMATED  AND  ACTUAL ......................................................                                 14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............ 15
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ......................... 16
TABLE  7: STUDIES  INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT ................................................ 17
TABLE  8A: PROJECT  COST ......................................................                               18
TABLE  88: PROJECT  FINANCING ......................................................                          19
TABLE  9: ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS ............................................ 20
TABLE  10: STATUS OF LEGAL  COVENANTS .............................................. 21
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL
STATEMENTS ......................................................                                            23
TABLE  12: BANK  RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ......................................... 24
TABLE  13: BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS ................................................. 25
APPENDIX A - Borrower contribution to the ICR
MAP (IBRD 20957RI)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2002-ET)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Project in
Ethiopia for which Credit 2002-ET in the amount of SDR 55.8 million (US$72 million
equivalent) was approved on April 1 1, and made effective on January 22, 1990.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995, compared with the original closing date
of June 30, 1993. A total of US$30.8 million was disbursed, the remaining funds were
cancelled from the credit.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Simon Thomas, Task Manager, AF2EI, and
reviewed by Mr. Stephen Weissman, Chief, AF2EI, and Mr. Surendra Agarwal, Project
Adviser, AF2DR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission of
March, 1995. The ICR is based on materials in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing a summary evaluation of the
project's execution.






- ii -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.     Ethiopia's internal transport system consists of a relatively limited network of main roads
and a meter gauge railway which connects Addis Ababa to the Port of Djibouti. The railway is
jointly owned by Ethiopia and Djibouti. The road transport is primarily owned by the private
sector but both the public and relief sectors operate large trucking fleets. Ethiopia's transport
system has undergone major changes in the last few years with the secession of Eritrea and the
loss of control over the ports of Assab and Massawa.
2.     The Bank group has made a number of credits to the transport sector, primarily to
support the development and maintenance of the road infrastructure. The Road Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2438-ET) is under implementation and a Third Road Sector Project is under
preparation. The subject of this ICR, the Transport Project (Cr. 2002-ET, of 1989), was the first
project to focus substantially on the transport industry as well as the infrastructure.
Project Objectives
3.     The objectives of the project were to modernize the road transport industry, improve
freight forwarding services and customs' clearance, expand the capacity of the Port of Assab, and
strengthen coordination among the entities operating in the transport industry. At the time of
project preparation, the transport sector was entirely state planned and controlled and a primary
objective was to increase the capacitv and efficiency of this system while doing as much as
possible to support and expand the role of the private sector.
4.     The project objectives were clear and addressed the major shortcomings of the transport
system which was recognized as a major constraint to economic development and emergency
relief activities. The objectives were to be achieved by the provision of material and technical
assistance and the implementation of policy actions by Government, most importantly to raise
tariffs and allocate sufficient foreign exchange to the sector. The Project was amended in early
1993 to provide emergency short-term assistance to the Chemin de Fer Djibouto-Ethiopien
(CDE), in conjunction with the Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.     The Project became effective in January, 1990, and its physical implementation was
progressing when the Government was replaced in May, 1991. The political changes had
profound consequences for both the transport sector and the project: (i) the defacto, and later de
jure, secession of Eritrea and the consequent loss of Ethiopian control over the ports of Assab
and Massawa; (ii) the implementation of radically different economic policies which resulted in
far reaching and fundamental changes to the transport sector, removing the original basis for
much of the project; (iii) a hiatus in project activities for several months; (iv) the replacement of
many senior managers in the implementing agencies; and (v) increased assistance to the
transport industry from other donors including ADB, EU, SIDA, and USAID, through the
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project (Cr. 235 1-ET), as support for the major
transport liberalization agreed under the project.



- iii -
6.     The overall impact of these changes has been a major transformation of the transport
sector during the implementation period of the Project. The centralized control and planning
system for the road freight sector has been abolished, tariff control for the movement of dry
cargo has been discontinued, and a competitive market has developed. The capacity of the
freight transport sector has increased substantially with the inflow of new and secondhand
trucks, and more adequate supplies of spare parts. The Ethiopian Freight Transport Corporation
(the main project implementing agency) was dissolved and its assets restructured into five
independent enterprises. Congestion at the Port of Assab has been largely eliminated and most
bulk and bagged cargo is now handled by direct delivery from ship to truck. The only sub-sector
effectively untouched by reform is freight clearing and forwarding which remains essentially
monopolized by the Maritime and Transit Services Enterprise, even though private forwarding
and clearing agents have been licensed.
7.     The project was designed to increase the efficiency of a centrally controlled transport
system. The policies of the new Government effectively removed this system and it is not,
therefore, surprising that the project was partially implemented. The road freight transport
industry was one of the primary beneficiaries of the project with equal support being provided to
the public and private sectors. The project was to provide iiew trucks and trailers, spare parts,
tires, workshop facilities and equipment for EFTC. patrol vehicles and technical support and
training. Less than 50 percent of the planned support was provided. Major problems were
encountered with procurement, support for EFTC was effectively suspended when it became
clear that it was not meeting its financial covenants, and some of the physical components and
most of the technical assistance became unnecessary with the shift in sector policy.
8.     Very little of the planned assistance for the Maritime and Transit Services Corporation
was implemented. Much of the assistance was planned to support MTSC's cargo handling
activities at Assab, a function which MTSC lost in 1991. A restructuring of the component was
proposed to provide support for MTSC's cargo handling at Djibouti but this was not possible
without agreement on the restructuring of MTSC, the licensing of private sector agents and
equal support to the private sector. A pre-feasibility study for an Inland Container Depot was
undertaken. The planned procurement of vehicles and office equipment for the Ethiopian
Customs and Excise Administration was successfully implemented. Further assistance for
ECEA was discussed, but more fundamental restructuring of Customs and streamlining of
procedures took priority.
9.     The construction of two new berths at Assab and the provision of cargo handling
equipment formed a major part of the overall project, financed respectively by the African
Development Bank and the European Investment Bank. The contractor for the berth
construction had mobilized at Assab and some handling equipment had been delivered when the
port was taken over. These components of the project were subsequently canceled.
10.    The CDE procured critical locomotive spares through the project and these helped to
raise locomotive availability significantly. A very limited amount of technical assistance was
also provided. The procurement of emergency communications equipment was started but not
completed.
11.    Efforts were made to restructure the project to meet the changed policy environment but
without substantial success, and only 42 percent of the IDA Credit was disbursed. The
additional trucks and vehicle inputs, provided under the project, did assist in raising the capacity



- iv -
of the trucking sector, thus helping to provide the enabling environment for sector liberalization.
In view of the limited disbursements and the failure to agree on the restructuring of the project,
the outcome of the project is assessed as unsatisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.    The project was overtaken by events resulting in considerable dislocation to the project's
implementing agencies and major shifts in economic and sectoral policies. During such a period
of change, it was perhaps inevitable that the implementation of such a complex project would
suffer considerably. The vehicles and spare parts procured under the project will provide
additional short-term transport capacity but the increase is unlikely to be sustained without the
privatization of the trucking enterprises created from the assets of EFTC. The improvements in
CDE will not be sustained without major institutional change and considerable additional
investment. The Bank, in cooperation with the Government, is preparing a Transport Sector
Memorandum as the basis for future support to the transport sector.
13.    Lessons learned from the project include: (i) the need for limited expectations during
periods of radical political change; (ii) the impracticality of using sophisticated procurement
techniques, such as life cycle costing, in operating environments such as Ethiopia; (iii) the
inappropriateness of ICB techniques for the provision of trucks to private sector operators and
the need for a more flexible approach; (iv) the difficulty of undertaking complex projects with
multiple objectives and implementing agencies without a very strong coordination framework;
and (v) the need to revise audit arrangements and requirements to respond to changing
circumstances.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2002-ET)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Objectives
1.     The objectives of the project, as established in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA), were to modernize the road transport industry, improve freight forwarding services,
strengthen the coordination among the entities in the transport sector and expand facilities at the
Port of Assabl. Support for the private sector was implicit within the project documentation and
project covenants. During project implementation the objectives were amended to include the
provision of emergency assistance to support the Chemin de Fer Djibouto-Ethiopien (CDE). The
Project was to provide trucks, cargo handling equipment, two new berths at Assab, spare parts
and tires, and substantial institutional development and support.
Assessment of Objectives
2.     During the mid- 1980's, transport was a major constraint to both economic development
and emergency relief activities in Ethiopia. The sector suffered from an actute lack of
investment and foreign exchange. A series of diagnostic studies indicated that almost all aspects
of the transport system contributed to these problems and the project attempted to relieve the
most pressing bottlenecks within the constraints of the Government's policies.
3.     The port of Assab was experiencing long berthing delays, severe congestion with more
than 200,000 tonnes of dry cargo stored in the transit sheds and open areas, long delays in the
clearance of cargo, and inadequate container handling capability. The trucking sector was
unable to provide effective off-take from the port. The size of the fleet was inadequate, and
vehicles were often diverted to the war effort. Its effective capacity was further restricted by its
age, especially the private sector trucks, and the lack of spare parts and tires. The private sector
had neither the ability nor incentive to invest at the tariffs fixed by the Government. The project
also included agreements designed to alleviate these basic constraints through the revision of
tariffs and the timely provision of foreign exchange.
Investment at the Port of Assab was provided primarily by the co-financing agencies: the African Development
Bank (berths 13 and 14) and the European Investment Bank (cargo handling equipment). IDA was to provide
assistance for on-shore cargo handling, training and technical assistance.



- 2 -
4.      Underlying many of the problems was the policy of total state control. Government's
strategy was to develop and expand the public sector, while allowing the private sector to engage
in certain activities. The port was operated by the parastatal Marine Transport Authority (MTA),
and forwarding/clearing and cargo handling was undertaken by another parastatal, the Maritime
and Transit Services Corporation (MTSC). Even though about two-thirds of commercial truck
capacity2 was privately owned, the road freight industry was controlled by the parastatal
Ethiopian Freight Transport Corporation (EFTC). All private truck owners had to work as EFTC
sub-contractors, organized in the 'ketana'3 system. One of the primary objectives of the Bank,
when formulating the project, was to support and rehabilitate the private sector. During project
preparation, the Bank tried to persuade the Government to liberalize the sector and allow much
greater private sector participation and autonomy; some limited success was achieved and equal
support was agreed for the private and public trucking fleets4. It was also agreed that MTSC
would associate with a private international freight forwarder5.
5.      Overall, a realistic view of the constraints faced by the transport sector was made6 but
the project was designed within the Government's framework of total state control.
Consequently heavy emphasis was given to increasing the efficiency of an inappropriate system.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.      The project became effective on January 22, 1990 and closed June 30, 1995. During
project implementation, the transport sector underwent such far-reaching changes that little now
remains of the situation prevailing during project preparation:
Ethiopia has become a landlocked country. The port of Assab is operated by the
Eritrean Ports Authority7 and MTA has been dissolved;
* Cargo congestion at Assab has been eliminated and virtually all bagged and bulk
cargo is handled by direct delivery from ship to truck;
* State control of the trucking sector has been virtually eliminated; the ketana system
has been abolished, and dry cargo freight rates deregulated;
Trucking capacity, primarily in the private sector, has expanded substantially and
presently is not a constraint;
2    In addition to the private and public sector trucking fleets, there is also a large relief trucking lloil with about the
same number of trucks as EFTC.
3    All private truckers were organized into zones or ketanas, and operated only within these mincs.
4    The Bank had initially argued that 65 percent should be directed to the private SQelor.
S   The project files indicate that the Ministry of Transport and Communications was sympathetic to increased
liberalization; the requirement for continued state control carne from the Council of NMinisters. In reality, some
de facto liberalization was already taking place in the road sector.
6    The provision of two additional berths at Assab, effectively doubling the cz ;acitv of the port, was excessive.
7   The ADB and EIB financed port components were canceled after Ethiopia iosi control of Assab. The contractors
for the new berths had mobilized but little construction had been undertak-n. Some EIB financed cargo handling
equipment had been delivered.



EFTC has been restructured into five independent enterprises which face hard budget
constraints, and compete in the open market with private operators/associations;
* Major reforms are being introduced in Customs with the creation of a Revenue
Authority, and the streamlining of procedures; and
* Many of the functions and responsibilities of the Road Transport Authority (RTA)
have been transferred to the regional governments.
7.     The forwarding/clearing sector remains relatively unaffected. Some private freight
forwarders have been issued licenses, but the Martime and Transit Services Enterprise (a
restructured and downsized successor to MTSC) still has the monopoly for the Assab route, as
part of the Transit Agreement with Eritrea, and a virtual monopoly on other routes resulting from
the continued implementation of National Bank regulations issued under the previous regime.
8.     These major changes were the consequences of the change in Government which took
place in May, 1991, and the secession of Eritrea. The new Government adopted policies which
gave much greater priority to the role of the private sector, especially in road transport. The
underlying objectives of the project were exceeded but the assistance, proposed under the
project, itself, had only limited physical impact. Many elements of the project, as orginally
designed, became unnecessary once the regime changed.
9.     The project provided some support to the transport sector but the attempts to restructure
the project to meet the new circumstances and priorities were largely unsuccessful; it was
difficult for the Government to focus on the project, when its priority was the restructuring of the
sector. Assistance was given to the road freight sector through trucks to EFTC and tires and
spare parts to both the public and private sectors, but the trucks for the private sector, the
rehabilitation of public sector trucks and additional tires for both public and private sectors were
all canceled. The Project, together with support from other donors under the Emergency
Recovery and Reconstruction Project (CR. 235 I-ET), helped provide the additional transport
capacity thought necessary by the Government for liberalization of the sector8. The Project also
provided the focus and forum for on-going dialogue between the Government and the Bank on
the need for liberalization of the sector and restructuring of the major transport parastatals.
10.    Vehicles and office equipment were provided to Ethiopian Customs, as were vehicles
and equipment to the Road Transport Authority. Critical spare parts were financed for the CDE,
and CDE management estimates that locomotive availability was raised by 10 percentage points.
Very little of the planned assistance to MTSC was delivered partly because its responsibilities
changed with the loss of Assab, and partly because agreement could not be reached on
restructuring. Very little technical assistance and training was provided although a pre-
feasibility study was undertaken for an Inland Container Depot (ICD) and some technical
assistance was provided to the CDE.
8   The elimination of all road freight tariff regulations was a dated covenant of ERRP.



- 4 -
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Road Transport
11.    Support for the road freight industry was the primary focus of the IDA assistance,
accounting for over 75 percent of the Credit and 37 percent of the total project costs. Assistance
to the industry was subsequently increased in 1992 with the re-allocation of US$7 million to
provide additional tires9.
(i)    Assistance to EFTC: Tractors and semi-trailers, the rehabilitation of about 475
of EFTC's older trucks, spare parts and tires were to be provided. The
construction of three new workshops, and the provision of mobile workshops
and patrol vehicles were planned to provide EFTC with additional capacity to
assist and monitor both its own large fleet and the private sector.
(ii)    Assistance to the Private Sector: The credit was to provide trucks and drawbar
trailers, rehabilitation of about 475 older trucks, spares and tires. The
Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) was to provide credit with EFTC acting as
the procurement agency.
(iii)   Assistance to the Road Transport Authority: The project was to provide
equipment and vehicles to improve road safety, driver education, vehicle
inspection and workshop training. Much of the assistance was to be provided to
RTA's driving school complex10.
12.    Implementation was expected to take four years because vehicles and equipment could
be procured rapidly. Despite a two year extension, however, only a modest proportion of the
planned assistance was, in fact, provided and much of this component was canceled.
13.    Procurement Problems: The vehicles and equipment component can best be described
as a procurement nightmare. The major single procurement was for trucks and trailers - the
bidding process started in 1990, no objection for the EFTC vehicles was provided in March
1992, the procurement for private sector trucks was rebid at the end of 1992 but Government
decided to cancel the procurement at the end of 1993. It was originally envisaged that 80 tractor
units and 150 semi-trailers would be provided for EFTC and 100 trucks and trailersl ' for the
private sector. Ultimately, only 95 tractor units and semi-trailers were procured. Almost every
procurement resulted in major problems and extensive delays: for example, misprocurement was
declared over a procurement of tires; RTA was given no objection to a procurement of vehicles
in 1992, again in 1993 and 1994, but no contract was ever signed; a contract was signed for
drawbar trailers but no payments were made and the trailers were not delivered; no objection was
given for the procurement of traffic engineering equipment (after rebidding) but no contract was
signed. The problems and delays arose from a variety of causes:
9   The re-allocation was formulated during preparation for the ERRP (Cr. 235 I-ET).
10  The driving schoo! complex is an example of the over-investment made under the previous regime in
institutional facilities. EFTC's central workshops are another example.
1   It was agreed to increase the procurement to 130 trucks and trailers in October, 1990.



-5-
*  the use of life cycle costing within an operating environment in which no
manufacturer would guarantee performance;
*  the shift of decision authority from the implementing agency (EFTC) to the Ministry
of Transport and Communications (MOTAC) and then finally to the Prime
Minister's Office;
*  the effective pre-selection of suppliers which were not the lowest evaluated bidders;
*  doubts over the acceptability of goods, purchased under ICB, to the private sector;
*  bidders declining to extend bids after long delays in the bidding process;
*  management in implementing agencies with no experience and little understanding
of the Bank's procurement procedures and principles, and
*  unnecessary technical deficiencies in the bids provided by some suppliers.
14.    A major factor in many of the procurement delays was the frequent changes in the
managers of the implementing agencies, and their need to review previous decisions.
15.    EFTC Financial Problems: By 1992, it was clear that EFTC was not meeting its
financial covenants under the DCA and Project Agreement; although no audited financial
statements were ever provided to the Bank, provisional statements indicated that EFTC was not
generating a positive rate of return on assets. In June 1992, IDA informed Government that no
further assistance could be provided to EFTC until it was restructured and able to meet the
covenants. The Bank offered assistance to clear EFTC's accounting arrears, but without success.
When EFTC was restructured, it was not possible to distribute the financial assets and liabilities
to the new enterprises, and the situation is still not resolved. EFTC continued to act, however, as
the procurement agent for assistance to the private trucking sectori2.
16.    New Government Policies: The shift from central sector management by EFTC removed
the rationale for some project components e.g. patrol vehicles, mobile and additional fixed
workshops. Similarly, the devolution of some RTA responsibilities to the new regional
governments reduced RTA's requirements.
17.    Inadequate Project Preparation: There was little detailed preparation for the truck
rehabilitation. Spare parts were provided for the rehabilitation of private sector trucks
(organized by the owners, using private workshops) but the rehabilitation program for the EFTC
trucks was never finalized. The capacity of EFTC to undertake such a large program was
uncertain and detailed rehabilitation requirements were never fully prepared. Eventually, EFTC
management decided that selling the older vehicles was financially more attractive. Some of the
12  Both during project preparation and implementation. the use of private firms for the procurement and
distribution of spare parts and tires to the private sector was discussed with the private trucking sector. A very
strong preference was expressed for EFTC as the procurement agent, basically because of the fear of excessive
mark-ups by private outlets.



older vehicles have been used as the basis for an enterprise to support retrenched EFTC workers,
but most of the vehicles remain unrehabilitated and unsold.
Maritime and Transit Services Corporation
18.   Almost none of the planned support to MTSC was provided. Several contracts were
signed for vehicles and cargo handling equipment but these were canceled after the loss of
MTSC's cargo handling role at Assab. MTSC and MOTAC made proposals for the restructuring
of the component to assist MTSC's activities in Djibouti, but it was not possible to resolve
outstanding issues on:
*  licensing of private forwarding/clearing agents13:
*  equal assistance to the private sector; and
*  MTSC's compliance with the Project's financial covenants.
19.   In 1990, a contract was signed for a full feasibility study of an Inland Container Depot
but, with the uncertainties created by the change in Ethiopia's geopolitical status, it was agreed to
undertake a short diagnostic study to evaluate the new situation and prepare revised terms of
reference for the detailed study. The diagnostic study was completed satisfactorily but
protracted discussions between Customs and MTSC over the eventual ownership of an ICD
prevented implementation of the full study.
Ethiopian Customs and Excise Administration (ECEA)
20.    The procurement of vehicles, office equipment and communications equipment was
completed satisfactorily, the only component without major procurement problems.
Subsequently, further assistance to ECEA was tentatively agreed and a preliminary request for
the provision of additional vehicles and the installation of the ASYCUDA computer system was
made. IDA indicated its willingness to accede to the proposal but a change in management at
ECEA and concentration on the major restructuring of Customs and the creation of a Revenue
Authority resulted in no further action being taken.
Institutional Development and Training
21.    A large component of technical assistance and training was included in the project
design (US$4.5 million). Several individuals were sent overseas for training (from MTA, RTA
and MOTAC), but almost no technical assistance was provided under the project. The loss of
Ethiopia's ports and the shifts in sector policy made most of the proposed technical assistance
unnecessary. IDA made a number of proposals to provide technical assistance for the
institutional and financial restructuring of EFTC and MTSC but no action was taken by
Government. In 1993, it was agreed, in principle, to mount a commercial and management
training program for both EFTC and the private trucking sector, but no proposals were ever sent
to IDA. A two year emergency technical assistance package for CDE was agreed but
13  A condition of the ERRP (Cr. 2351-ET) which was never satisfactorilyv implemented by the Government.



- 7 -
implementation was so delayed that the consultants only mobilized in early 1995 for a very short
assignment.
22.    The provision of computer equipment to MOTAC was first delayed by design issues.
Once these were resolved, Government decided to centralize computer procurement. By the
time this decision was reversed, there was insufficient time available for the equipment to be
shipped prior to the closing date14.
Port of Assab
23.    This component was abandoned, when Eritrea took control of the port. The Eritrean
Ports Authority plans to construct the berths in Phase II of its Port Development Program.
CDE
24.    The Project was restructured in 1992, as part of ERRP, to provide emergency assistance
to CDE to maintain its freight capacity. The assistance, of US$3 million, comprising critical
spares, radio equipment and technical support, was designed to complement a World Food
Programme (WFP) grant. Government agreement to the WFP grant was so delayed, however,
that the funds were no longer available and IDA assistance was increased to US$5 million.
Procurement was delayed by CDE's inability to provide counterpart funding and the need for
agreement from the Government of Djibouti (the co-owners of CDE). The critical spare parts
were eventually delivered and have had a significant impact on locomotive availability. The two
year technical assistance component was reduced to less than twelve months, and CDE canceled
the tender for emergency communications equipment'5.
Factors influencing the Implementation Record
25.    The secession of Eritrea, and the liberalization of the freight transport sector effectively
removed much of the basis for the project. While the physical constraints in the road freight
sector remained, the project design became inappropriate. The altered political circumstances
also encouraged other donors (ADB, USAID, European Union, and SIDA) to assist the trucking
sector, particularly the private operators, thus reducing the relative priority for this project. The
other donors were able to adopt more flexible approaches to procurement of vehicles and spares
for the private sector - individual operators could make their own decision on the make and
model of truck16 and spare parts were routed through the commercial sector.
26.    The change in regime resulted in a hiatus of decision making within the implementing
agencies and major, and often frequent changes in personnel. The lack of continuity in
management was a very significant factor in the problems encountered over procurement (see
para 13), and also made discussions on the effective restructuring of the project extremely
difficult. Decision making within Government became more centralized with, for example,
14  IDA indicated to MOTAC that an off-the-shelf purchase, using UNDP's IAPSO, would be acceptable but
MOTAC opted for ICB.
5  The bids for the provision and installation of the equipment exceeded the funds allocated but neither CDE nor
MOTAC approached IDA to discuss a possible increase in the CDE component to cover the additional costs.
16  Procurement of trucks financed by USAID, howver, was restricted to US manufactured trucks.



- 8 -
multiple reviews of procurement decisions. It is perhaps not surprising that a successful
restructuring of the project was not achieved given the magnitude and speed of the
political/policy changes that were taking place. Toward the end of implementation, Government
made some far-reaching proposals for the use of the uncommitted funds - a major procurement
of large passenger buses for the private sector, and then the redirection of funds for the
procurement of industrial raw materials. Such radical restructuring was, however, well outside
the orginal scope and objectives the project.
27.    The project was designed as a comprehensive approach to the problems of the transport
industry; the project was, therefore, complex with multiple implementing agencies - EFTC,
MTA, MTSC, RTA, MOTAC, ECEA, CBE, and later CDE. MOTAC acted as the coordinating
agency for the transport agencies but a stronger institutional arrangement for project
management and coordination would have been beneficial.
D. SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROJECT
28.    Only a limited part of the project was implemented; essentially, the original project
concept was abandoned in 1992 and the project became a vehicle for providing short-term
assistance to the freight transport sector, complementary to the Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction Project which covered the entire economy. The overall transport sector is now in
a much more sustainable position than when the project was prepared.
29.    The project provided a fleet of 95 tractors and semi-trailers to EFTC, and these vehicles
form part of a trucking enterprise, restructured from EFTC. Discussions with the enterprise
management suggests that it is doubtful whether this enterprise will survive commercially in a
competitive transport market as a public sector operation. In the short term, however, the
enterprise adds to competition in the nascent market, and, in the longer term, it is the
Government's declared objective to privatize the enterprise.
30.    The project also provided a considerable quantity of spares for both EFTC and the
private sector which were to be distributed through EFTC. The distribution/sale of these spares
is now the responsibility of the Addis Mechanical Enterprise, another enterprise restructured
from EFTC which took over the very extensive central workshop complex. The cash flow
generated from the sale of these spares may provide the enterprise with the opportunity to make
the more fundamental restructuring which seems necessary but its financial position remains
very weak and it long term commercial future doubtful.
31.    The other components of the project, for ECEA, RTA and CDE, were small. The
vehicles and equipment provided to ECEA were needed but much more important is the
reorganization and modernization program now under way. In view of the modification to
RTA's role, some of the equipment provided has now only limited value. The improvement to
CDE's operational performance was not designed for long-term sustainability, but to provide
temporary assistance during the ERRP implementation period. Much more substantial assistance
will be required by CDE for long-term operational sustainability
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
32.    The Bank prepared the project with the Borrower over a three year period, with the
assistance of major sector work and technical assistance studies. Clearly, the Bank did not



-9-
manage to incorporate into the project as much liberalization and support for the private sector as
was initially hoped, but the final design may have been the best which could have been achieved
in the difficult policy environment. Project preparation over-estimated EFTC's capacity to
implement such an extensive program and the quality of its financial management systems. It is
also clear, with hindsight, that the decision to use life cycle costing for the evaluation of the
tenders for vehicles was an error of judgment, and that the use of ICB for the procurement of
trucks for the private sector was inappropriate.
33.    Several missions were mounted in 1992 and 1993 to try and agree the restructuring of
the project to meet the new circumstances and priorities'7. These missions also maintained a
dialogue on the reforms in the sector and the restructuring of the major parastatals. The level of
field supervision diminished, when it became apparent that agreement on major project
restructuring was not possible. Procurement required excessive time and resources in the Bank,
reflecting the many problems that arose. The closing date of the project was extended, by two
years, to provide the Borrower with the opportunity to utilize the resources available under the
Project to complete agreed activities.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.    Borrower performance, prior to the change in Government, was satisfactory in terms of
project implementation - preparing and issuing bidding documents, determining technical
assistance requirements - but unsatisfactory in terms of implementing the policy actions agreed
under the Project, such as raising road freight tariffs, introducing a new port tariff at Assab, and
implementing a second customs shift. Following the change in Government, Borrower
performance was less satisfactory in terms of project implementation, understandable given the
changes, but major improvements were made to the policy framework. The efficiency of the
road transport sector, particularly for the movement of dry cargo, has consequently increased
very substantially over the life of the project.
35.    Throughout implementation, there was very little project reporting by the Borrower.
Audit reports on the Project Accounts were always in arrears and very few of the required
financial statements from implementing agencies were provided. A Project Implementation Unit
was established in 1993 to coordinate project activities and improve project reporting, but the
improvement was marginal and only one progress report was produced.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.    The Project was overtaken by fundamental changes in the economic and political
environment and its relevance diminished substantially. Though attempts were made to
restructure the project, only about 40 percent of the available IDA assistance was disbursed. The
Project is rated, therefore, as "unsatisfactory" although the changes that took place in the
transport sector during implementation significantly exceeded project expectations. The policy
dialogue which took place during the preparation and implementation of the project did,
however, set the context in which much of the liberalization in the transport sector was
undertaken
17  These included missions for the preparation and implementation of ERRP (Cr.2351-ET)



- 10 -
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
37.    The role of the Government and public sector has been reduced very substantially in the
road transport sector and the private sector is now expected to play the leading role. The
centralized control of the sector has been dismantled and EFTC has been restructured. The dry
cargo sector is performing satisfactorily but Government is considering further changes with
respect to bulk fuel transport. The public sector still dominates the forwarding/clearing sector
despite the licensing of private forwarding/clearing companies. Dialogue is, however,
continuing to remove the residual regulations which prevent effective competition. The RTA is
in a state of transition; many of its operational functions/responsibilities have been transferred to
the new Regional Transport Bureaux and the new role of RTA has not been finally established.
The Bank is presently preparing a Transport Sector Memorandum as the basis for future lending
to the sector.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.    Procurement of Vehicles: (i) ICB procedures may be appropriate for the procurement of
large, single operator fleets, but are not appropriate for supporting small private operators who
have fleets of only one/two vehicles. Trucks are not homogenous and a more flexible approach,
allowing the operators to make their own choices would be more efficient. Previous experience
with a truck is likely to be much more important than small differences in the capital costs; and
(ii) Life cycle costing, as the basis of procurement, is an attractive concept but is unlikely to
succeed when the operating circumstances are very different to those normally experienced by
the manufacturer.
39.   Impact of Major Political/Economic Change: (i) Considerable delays to on-going
activities must be expected and it may not be possible to restructure activities within a
reasonable time-scale as the Govemment needs time to define its own detailed policies; (ii) It
may be preferable to cancel projects designed for very different circumstances than to attempt to
adapt them, especially when the projects are complex with multiple implementing agencies.
40.    Speed of Adjustment in the Transport Sector: the experience in Ethiopia suggests that
the private trucking sector can adjust very quickly to new policy frameworks. The centralized
control system was eliminated without major disruption and the use of emergency transport
contracts, a safeguard provided under ERRP, proved unnecessary.
41.    Complex Project Design: the project was overly complex with many components and
implementing agencies. When multiple implementing agencies are involved, the design of the
project must provide for such a strong overall project management and coordination framework.
42.   Audit Requirements: as a consequence of the complex design of the project, the DCA
required the provision of numerous project accounts and financial statements. The audit reports
were invariably delayed and, given the circumstancesl8, many were never provided. It would
have been preferable for project accounts to have been compiled by a single authority.
18  Full financial statements for MTSC could not be provided as many of their records, as well as assets,
were taken over by the new authorities.



- 11 -
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A.  Achievement of objectives       Substantial  Partial  Negligible  Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies                                V/
Financial objectives                                      V
Institutional development                                 V/
Physical objectives                             V
Poverty reduction                                                        V
Gender concerns
Other social objectives                                                  V
Environmental objectives                                                 V
Public sector management                       V/
Private sector development                      v
Other (specify)
B.  Project sustainability          Likely         Unlikely            Uncertain
V/
C   Bank performance            Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                          V
Preparation assistance                                  /
Appraisal
Supervision                                             V
D.  Borrower performance         Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                             V
Identification                                          V
Covenant compliance                                                      V
Operation (if applicable)
E.   Assessment        iHighly       Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory       Highly
of outcome    satisfactory                                       unsatisfactory



- 12 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit                  Purpose                    Year of         Status
Title                                              Approval
Preceding operations
I.  Cr. 1404-ET    Second Road Sector: Part of Government's  FY 83    Closed 3.31.94
3-year (FY84-86) Program, including
improvement and expansion of road network
and strengthening of maintenance capacity
2.  Cr. 1676-ET    Port Eng. & Construction: Development of  FY 86    Closed 3.31.91
Assab port to provide modest increase in
port capacity, and preparatory work for later
major expansion
Following operations
I.  Cr. 2438-ET    Road Rehabilitation: Rehabilitate and     FY 93    Ongoing; closing
improve sections of the Mille - Assab road,         date 9.30.98
improve maintenance capacity and
strengthen Ethiopian Roads Authority
2.  Cr. 2351-ET    Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction     FY 93     Closing date of
(Roads Component): Rebuilding transport             road component
capacity through emergency maintenance of           extended 1 8
roads and provision of trucks, spares and           months to 9.30.96
tires



- 13 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle       Date planned                  Date actual
Identification                                             September 22, 1986
Preparation (Pre-appraisal)                               October 14, 1987
Appraisal                                                  March 12, 1988
Negotiations                                               October 24, 1988
Board presentation                                         April I11, 1989
Signing                                                    May 30, 1989
Effectiveness                August 24. 1989               January 22, 1990
Project completion           December 3 1, 1992            June 30, 1995
Loan closing                 June 30. 1993                June 30, 1995



- 14 -
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTrUAL
(US$ million)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Appraisal estimate         35.20   57.50   66.20   72.00   72.00   72.00   72.00
Actual                      1.83    2.08    6.96    19.56   25.18   29.64   31.02
Actual as % of estimate     5.2      3.6     10.5    27.2    35.0    41.2    43.1
Date of final disbursement   November 27, 1995



- 15 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators        Estimated                   Actual
Support to EFTC:
Tractors and Semi-trailers      80 tractors + 150 semi-    95 tractors + 95 semi-trailers
trailers
Rehabilitation of older trucks  475 trucks               Not implemented
Maintenance facilities          3 fixed, 8 removable,    US$0.2 million workshop
5 mobile workshops       equipment supplied
Support to Private Truckers:
Trucks and drawbar trailers     100 trucks + trailers    Not implemented
Rehabilitation of older trucks  475 trucks               US$2.0 million rehabilitation
spares supplied
Support to both Trucking Sectors:
Spare parts, batteries and tires  US$11.4 million        US$1 1.1 million
Support to Port of Assab:
New berths                      2 deep water berths      Not implemented
Cargo handling equipment        ECU 10 million           ECU 6.7 million
Support to MTSC:
Equipment and spare parts       US$6.3 million           Negligible



- 16 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key operating indicators         Estimated                       Actual
EFTC: annual return on        >8% from FY 1991       Not achieved: preliminary financial
current net value of fixed                           accoulIts indicate that EFTC either
assets                                               made losses or only small profits
based on historic cost depreciation.
E FTC was dissolved in 1994 and
auditors are still working on
establishing its final assets/liabilities.
MTSC: aniual return on        >10% from FY 1991    Most of MTSC's assets were lost in
current value of fixed assets                        1 991 and the scope of its activities
were substantiallv reduced.
MTSC is nlow profitable but largely as
the result of its effective monopoly.



- 17 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study              Purpose as defined at           Status          Impact
appraisal
Feasibility and           To relieve port congestion    Pre-feasibility       --
engineering study for an    and further steam line   study undertaken to
Inland Container Depot    line-liaul distribution    review impact of
in Addis Ababa            operations in the Addis    geo-political
Ababa - Assab corridor     changes and
prepare new TOR



- 18 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COST
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual
Item                                                       (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs              Costs     Costs
1. Port of Assab                    12.47     49.48     61.95    N.A        N.A      N.A
2. Road Transport Industry           5.37     48.70     54.07     1.31     26.63     27.94
3. Freight Forwarding (MTSC)         0.20      5.30      5.50      -        0.12      0.12
4. MOTAC                               -       0.20      0.20                 -        -
5. ECEA                              0.08      1.70      1.78     N.A       0.98     N.A
6. Technical Assistance and Training    0.60   3.21      3.81
7. PPF                               0.10      0.80      0.90
8. CDE                                -         -         -                 3.07     3.07
9. Contingencies                     6.28     30.11     36.39      -         -         -
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  25.10    139.50    164.60    N.A        N.A       N.A
N.A = NOT AVAILABLE
I   Included in project in 1993



- 19 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Source             Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign         Total
Costs     Costs                Costs      Costs
IDA                           -        72.0      72.0        -        30.8        30.8
African Development Bank      -        55.0      55.0       N.A        N.A        N.A
European Investment Bank      -        12.5       12.5       -         8.3         8.32
Domestic contribution        25.1        -       25.1       N.A        N.A        N.A
TOTAL                        25.1      139.5     164.6      N.A        N.A        N.A
N.A = NOT AVAILABLE
2   ECU 6.66 million was disbursed. ECtJ 3.34 million was canceled



- 20 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Item        Estimated       Actual                     Comments
Costs:
Project       US$164.5 mn   _US$45 mn   Only about 25% of the total project was
implemented, civil works expenditure at Assab
resulted in negligible output.
IDA            US$72.0 mn   US$30.8 mni   Trucking: US$ 23.8 mn (SAR US$ 53.7 mn)
Component
RTA    lUS$ 2.8 mn (SAR US$ 5.0 inn)
MTSC   US$ 0.1 inn (SAR US$ 6.3 mn)
ECEA    US$  1.0 mn (SAR US$ 2.1 mn)
CDE    US$ 3.1 inn (SAR US$ 0.0 mn)
Benefits:
Project ERR       25%       not applicable  So little of the total project was implemented
that such comparison is irrelevant.
Trucking          30%       substantial    With the elililinationi of state control and the
ERR                                        devolution of vehicle licensing, there is now
ailmost no data available on the transport
industrv and a precise ERR cannot be
realistically calculated.
The component contributed to a substantial
increase in capacity which has largely
eliminated trucking as a major constraint.
The increased capacity has helped to reduce
storage at Assab from over 200,000 tonnes to
about 30,000 tons, and increase the proportion
of cargo hanidled by direct delivery from 16%
to 60%. Annual port storage and handling
charges have been reduced by US$5 - 6
million.
The 95 tractors/semi-trailers generate an
additional 1 10,000 tonnes of annual capacity
and would account for about US$ 1.2 million
of the annual port cost savings.
The supply of spares/tires helped stabilize
prices and limit the increase in freight rates
following devaluation and tariff decontrol.



- 21 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present  Original  Re: ixed   Description of Covenant       Comments
Type     Status    Fulfill   Fulfill
Date     Date
DCA         4.01         1        NC                         The Borrower shall      A number of audit
furnish to IDA certified  reports and financial
copies of audit reports   statements are
(for the Special        outstanding. The
Account, Statement of   Government
Expenditures, Project    undertook to clear all
Accounts, and of        outstanding project
financial statements for  audit reports by May
revenue generating      31, 1995 and financial
agencies), not later than  statement by June 30,
six months after the end   1995. Several audit
of each fiscal year     reports are, however,
still outstanding
4.06         5        C                         Counterpart staff will    CDE has assigned
be assigned in every    counterparts to work
long-term consultants    with the three
employment (over six   technical experts
months)
EFTC        2.07         5         C                         EFTC shall allocate     Since 1992 spare parts
spares parts and tires  have only been
financed under the      procured for the
Credit on 50/50 basis    private sector under
between private        the Credit. Assistance
truckers and EFTC       to EFTC was
effectively suspended
because of its failure
to meet its financial
covenants
4.02         2        NC                        From FY91 EFTC shall  EFTC made losses in
have an annual return    FY91 and FY92 and
on its net fixed assets of  only a small profit in
at least 8%             FY93. The financial
covenant was never
achieved. EFTC has
now been dissolved
and five new
enterprises created



- 22 -
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present  Original  Revised   Description of Covenant        Comments
Type    Status    Fulfil   Fulfill
Date     Date
MTSC        4.02(a)      2         C                         Beginning in FY90,      MTSC's asset base
MTSC shall earn an      was dramatically
annual return on its net  reduced with the loss
fixed assets of at least    of Assab and
10%                     Massawa. MTSC is
meeting the 10%
return, but this has
become an irrelevant
measure of financial
performance
Status:   C       -     Complied with
NC      -     Not Complied with



- 23 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual



- 24 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle       Planned               Revised                Actual
Weeks       US$       Weeks       USS        Weeks       USS
Preparation to appraisal   NA         NA         NA         NA         55.9      104,900
Appraisal                  NA         NA         NA         NA          16.4      33,900
Negotiations through       NA         NA         NA         NA          9.8       20,600
Board approval
Supervision                NA         NA         NA         NA         82.9      255,200
Completion                 15.0     49,300       4.0       13,500      3.7 1/    10,600 1/
TOTAL                                                                  168.7     425,200
1/    As of 2.14.96



- 25 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Stage of project    Month!   Number  Days  Specialized  Implementation   Development   Types of
cycle         year        Of       in    staff skills     status         objectives    problems4
persons  field  represented
Identification       9/86       3        11   ECN, FA,
TS
Preparation          3/87       3        17   ECN, FA,
PS
Preappraisal        10/87       6        14   ECN, FA,
TS, PS, HE,
TRNG
Appraisal            3/88       4        25    ECN, FA,
TS, PS
Supervision   1.  10/89          1       16    ECN                 I              I
2.  2/90           1       19   ECN                  1               1
3.  5/90           1       10   FA                  5/              5/
4.  9/90          2        24    ECN, FA             2               1       P, T
5.  5/92           1       11   TE                  3               2        P, T, TA, F
6.   12/92        2        11    TE, FA              3              2        P, T, TA, F
7.  9/93           1       17   TE                  3               2        P, T, TA, F
8.  5/94           1       3    TE                  3               3        P, T, TA, F
9.  3/95           1       10   TE                  U               U        P, T, TA, F
3   ECN - Economist; FA - Financial Analyst; TS - Transport Specialist; PS - Port Specialist;
HE - Highway Engineer; TRNG - Training Specialist; TE - Transport Economist
4   P - Procurement; T - Training; TA - TA Studies; F - Financial
5   No Form 590 prepared






APPENDIX A
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
TRANSPORT PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT NO. 2002-ET)
SUMMARY REPORT
Vice Minister
MOTAC
P.O. Box 1238
Addis Ababa
MARCH 1996                                 ETHIOPIA






APPENDIX A
Page I of 2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SUMMARY REPORT
BACKGROUND
The backward transport infrastructure of Ethiopia has been hampering economic
development and is an obstacle to economic integration, enhancement of export and
realization of greater economic potential. It is this general concept and reality that calls
the Government of Ethiopia to seek assistance from an international financial institution
fund. As a result, the Transport Project (IDA Cr. 2002-ET) which focused by and large
on the transport industry was signed between the Government of Ethiopia and the World
Bank on May 30, 1989.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the project were to modernize the road transport industry, improve
freight forwarding services and custom clearance, expand the capacity of the Port of
Assab and strengthen coordination among the entities operating in the transport industry.
The project was designed during the previous regime under a centralized planned
economy to eliminate major transport bottlenecks in the Addis Ababa - Assab Corridor
by increasing cargo handling capacity in the Port of Assab and improving efficiency of
the truck industry and freight forwarding operations.
To this effect the project consisted of-
* Rehabilitation of selected old trucks and procurement of new trucks to both the
parastatal company, Ethiopian Freight Transport Corporation (EFTC) and the
privately owned trucking industry;
*  Assistance to the freight forwarding agency Maritime and Transit Service
Corporation (MTSC) with spare parts and procurement of new equipment;
*  Procurement of equipment for Road Transport Authority (RTA);
*  Procurement of vehicles and equipment to Ethiopian Customs and Excise
Administration (ECA);
*  Prove office equipment (computer and accessories) to the assistance to Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MOTAC); and



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 2
* Provide technical assistance and training to MOTAC, MTA, EFTC, MTSC, ECEA
and RTA.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
The project focused to develop the transport industry as well as the back ward
infrastructure of the country. It was designed under the environment of centralized
planned economic policy during the dergue regime and became effective in January 1990.
However, the change of Government in May 1991 and the new economic policy of the
country led to restructuring the project to be restructured according to free market
economy. As a result of this, the project was not completed as scheduled and substantial
amount of the project fund was not disbursed. Among other things the following factors
contributed for poor implementation of the project.
-  The new economic policy of the Government.
3  Imposition of new conditions by the Bank due to the restructuring of the public
transport enterprises.
*  Project management problems of implementing agencies.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
There was an expectation that the project would contribute substantially lot to the
development of the transport sector. However, due to the above stated reasons the
achievement is less than the anticipated target. Financed disbursement indicated that, out
of the total IDA fund of USD 72 million only 42% was dispersed. This poor financial
performance is due to lack of proper project follow up, absence of a responsible project
unit within each executive agencies and the new conditions imposed by the World Bank.
From this project, it has been believed that for successful project implementation an
independent project implementation unit staffed with professionals that follow up the
progress of the project is essential.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 20957RI
ETHIOPIA
C  ,    D                                      TRANSPORT PROJECT
SD A N(                                                                              .                                  TRANSPORT SYSTEM
/1                                                         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ah..
-     F^b^F ^                                                                                                              0.I C.Wl. it.d
I ~ ~    ~   ~    ~       \   j                                            -                            _   _ '_ __ _
Am.
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                      A b ( k  ,._
S   U   D   A   N        A       --        pa            4                                                                 C II,
*DJIBOUTI/-
_K1^~~~~~~~~~~~1
Ir- -P                              a.                                             ,-
A~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~0h                . I,oaF '                                                10  to  5020  50          30 
_____ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.UIEMLO 0 so0     no 50 32o  210 
K., E   N   Y   A                                                                                     o / '                          {
UGANDA         .-  t. KY..   2.                                                          i                                             S      II
Apiti 1996









IMAGING
Report No;       15588
Type: ICE



