Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2002 ET
                        (Transport Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
              ETHIOPIAN FREIGHT TRANSPORT CORPORATION
                        Dated May 30, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2002 ET
                      EFTC PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   May   30,   1989,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and ETHIOPIAN FREIGHT
TRANSPORT CORPORATION (EFTC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Peoples  Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (the
Borrower) and the Association, the  Association has agreed to make
available  to  the  Borrower   an  amount  in  various  currencies
equivalent to fifty-five  million  eight  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 55,800,000),  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development  Credit  Agreement, but only on condition
that  EFTC  agree  to   undertake   such  obligations  toward  the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower  and  EFTC,  a  part  of  the proceeds of the
Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
Page  2
made available to EFTC on  the  terms  and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS EFTC, in consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  EFTC  declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement  and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Parts A (1) and D (3) of  the Project with due diligence and effi-
ciency  and   in   conformity   with  appropriate  administrative,
financial, engineering and transport practices, and shall provide,
or  cause  to  be   provided,   promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Parts A  (1)  and  D  (3)  of  the  Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. EFTC shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use  of  goods  and  services,  plans and schedules,
records   and   reports,   maintenance   and   land   acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts A (1) and D (3) of the Project.
     Section 2.04. EFTC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under  the  EFTC   Subsidiary   Loan   Agreement.  Except  as  the
Association shall otherwise agree,  EFTC  shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving  the  EFTC  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     Section  2.05.  (a)  EFTC  shall,   at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress  of  Parts  A  (1)  and  D  (3)  of  the Project, the
performance of its obligations under  this Agreement and under the
EFTC Subsidiary Loan Agreement  and  other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  EFTC  shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress  of  Parts  A  (1)   and   D  (3)  of  the  Project,  the
accomplishment of the purposes  of  the Credit, or the performance
by EFTC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the EFTC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  EFTC  shall  allocate  spare  parts  and tires
financed out of the proceeds of  the  credit on the basis of fifty
percent  (50%)  for  EFTC  and  fifty  percent  (50%)  for private
truckers.
     Section 2.07. EFTC shall  make available to private truckers,
on an equal basis with EFTC, the EFTC workshops for rehabilitation
and repair of private trucks.
Page  3
     Section 2.08. EFTC shall,  together  with  MTSC, by April 30,
1989, furnish to the Borrower  and  the Association for approval a
joint  proposal  on  the  feasibility  of  unloading long-distance
in-bound vehicles at a centralized temporary facility and of using
smaller Ketana  vehicles,  possibly  under  contract  to MTSC, for
deliveries.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of EFTC
     Section 3.01. EFTC shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
and transport practices  under  the  supervision  of qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. EFTC shall  at  all  times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and transport practices.
     Section 3.03. EFTC shall  take  out and maintain with respon-
sible  insurers,  or  make  other  provision  satisfactory  to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  EFTC  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  EFTC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such  year  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, EFTC shall earn,  for  each  of  its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on July 7,  1990,  an annual return of not less
than eight percent (8%) of  the  average  current net value of the
EFTC's fixed assets in operation.
     (b)  Before July 7 in each  of  its fiscal years, EFTC shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by EFTC and satisfactory to the
Borrower and the  Association,  review  whether  it would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the  next  following  fiscal  year  and  shall  furnish to the
Borrower and the Association the  results  of such review upon its
Page  4
completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  EFTC would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  the EFTC's fiscal
years  covered  by  such  review,  EFTC  shall  promptly  take all
necessary measures (including,  without limitation, adjustments of
the structure  or  levels  of  its  rates  in  order  to meet such
requirements).
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               EFTC's net operating income  for the fiscal year in
               question by one half of  the sum of the current net
               value of EFTC's  fixed  assets  in operation at the
               beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a straight-line basis at  a  rate  of not less than
               five percent (5%) per  annum of the average current
               gross  value  of   the   EFTC's   fixed  assets  in
               operation,  or  other   basis   acceptable  to  the
               Association,  but  excluding   interest  and  other
               charges on debt.
          (v)  The average current gross value of the EFTC's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half
               of the sum of the  gross  value of the EFTC's fixed
               assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
               of the fiscal year, as  valued from time to time in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods   of   valuation    satisfactory   to   the
               Association.
         (vi)  The term "current net  value of EFTC's fixed assets
               in operation" means the  gross  value of the EFTC's
               fixed  assets  in  operation  less  the  amount  of
               accumulated depreciation,  as  valued  from time to
               time  in  accordance  with  sound  and consistently
               maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the
               Association.
        (vii)  The term "fiscal  year"  means  the  fiscal year of
               EFTC starting on July 7  of each year and ending on
               July 6 of the following year.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of EFTC thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
Page  5
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
EFTC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For EFTC:
          Ethiopian Freight Transport Corporation
          P.O. Box 2538
          Addis Ababa
          Ethiopia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                ETHIO FREIGHT                 21238
                ADDIS ABABA                   ADDIS ABABA
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any  document  required  or  permitted  to  be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of EFTC  may  be taken or executed by the
General Manager or  such  other  person  or  persons as EFTC shall
designate in writing, and  EFTC  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  6
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    ETHIOPIAN FREIGHT TRANSPORT CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Girma Amare
                                         Authorized Representative
