Page  1
                                         March 19, 1993
Ato Dawit Gebremedhim
Acting General Manager
Ethiopian Freight Transport Corporation (EFTC)
P.O. Box 2538
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Dear Ato Gebremedhim:
     Ethiopia - Transport Project (Credit 2002-ET)
     Amending Letter to the EFTC Project Agreement
     I am pleased to attach for your countersignature, two copies
of the Amending Letter to the EFTC Project Agreement for the above
referenced project.  The proposed amendments are in line with the
recommendations of the IDA supervision mission's Aide Memoire dated
December 17, 1992, which were discussed and agreed with the
Government.  In addition, a copy of my letter addressed to His
Excellency, Alemayehu Daba, Minister of Finance, attaching an
Amending Letter to the, Development Credit Agreement, is also
enclosed for your reference.  The Government's agreement to these
amendments would conclude the first phase of the restructuring
exercise for the Transport Project (Credit 2002-ET).
          As you know, a follow up letter to the IDA supervision
mission's visit, IDA received a letter from Ato Atenew Bitewelign,
Vice Minister requesting a two-year extension to the closing date
and our agreement to proceed with additional procurement for EFTC
and the Maritime and Transit Services Corporation (MTSC).  My letter
dated January 13, 1993 to Dr. Wakjira Gemechu, Minister of Transport
and Communications responded outlining IDA's proposal to consider
restructuring the project in two phases, to be accomplished through
two one-year extensions of the closing date of the Credit.  The main
reason for the two-phased approach is our belief that any further
procurement to EFTC and MTSC should be assessed in light of the
Government's restructuring proposals for these two agencies.
Although the original target date for completion of this task was
January 1993, we understand that the plans are still in the process
of being finalized.  We look forward to receiving EFTC's proposal so
that we can discuss the second phase of project restructuring and
EFTC's equipment and technical assistance needs in the context of
the remaining uncommitted funds in the Credit account.
          For your information, the attached amending letter to the
EFTC Project Agreement clarifies that EFTC is acting solely as the
procurement agent for the private sector in respect of the purchase
of trucks, trailers and spares.  In addition, in order not to delay
ongoing procurement and project implementation, I am pleased to
inform you that on March 19, 1993, IDA extended the closing date of
the Credit from June 30, 1993, to June 30, 1994.
          I would like to highlight that it was not deemed necessary
to delete Section 2.08 from the Project Agreement since this dated
covenant is no longer relevant to project implementation.  I should
also like to add that it will be necessary to amend the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Government and EFTC, in accordance with
the amendments to the EFTC Project Agreement.  In addition, we
strongly suggest that a new section be added to Article V of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, stating EFTC's intention to remit funds
to the Government in respect of monies collected by EFTC from the
sale of spare Government and the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia in
accordance with the attached Amending Letter referring to Section
3.01 (e).  We would be grateful to receive a copy of the amended
version of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in due course.
          I wish to reconfirm IDA support for this project and of
the Government's new policies in the transport sector.  We welcome
the positive initiatives taken by the Government earlier this year,
to introduce new regulations governing the road freight sector and
Page  2
the deregulation of freight tariffs.
          I look forward to receiving a countersigned copy of the
Amending Letter to the Development Credit Agreement confirming your
concurrence with the proposed amendments.  The second copy is for
your official records.
     In view of their interest in this matter, a copy of this letter
is being sent to His Excellency Abdul Mejid Hussein, Minister for
External Economic Cooperation, His Excellency Wakgira Gemechu,
Minister of Transport and Communications, and Ato Dawit Gebremedhim,
Acting General Manager of EFTC.
                      Sincerely,
                   Stephen Weissman
                    Division Chief
               Infrastructure Operations
               Eastern Africa Department
Attachments
Cleared with and cc: Mr. Thomas (AF2IN)
cc:  Messrs./Mesdames: Colaco, Lethem (AF2DR), Martinez (o/r)
     (AF2IN), Carter, Roberts (AF2CO), Boubacar (LEGAF), Fernando
     (LOAAF), Deshpande (AF2TA)
