Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2002 ET
                        (Transport Project)
                              between
             PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 30, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2002 ET
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 30,  1989,  between  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the  Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be  carried  out  by the Borrower, and,
with the Borrower's  assistance,  the  Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
(CBE), the Ethiopian Freight  Transport Corporation (EFTC) and the
Maritime and Transit Services  Corporation  (MTSC) and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to CBE, EFTC and
MTSC a portion of the proceeds  of  the Credit as provided in this
Agreement;
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the  African
Development  Bank  (ADB)  a  loan  (the  ADB  Loan)  in  an amount
Page  2
equivalent to  $55,000,000  to  assist  in  financing  part of the
Project on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in the ADB Loan
Agreement (ADB Loan Agreement);
     (D)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the European
Investment  Bank  (EIB)  a  loan  (the  EIB  Loan)  in  an  amount
equivalent to  $12,500,000  to  assist  in  financing  part of the
Project on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in the EIB Loan
Agreement (EIB Loan Agreement); and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreements of even  date  herewith between the Association
and EFTC and MTSC, respectively;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
     (b)  "MOTAC" means the  Ministry  of Transport and Communica-
tions of the Borrower;
     (c)  "CBE" means the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, established
and operating pursuant to Proclamation  Number  184 of 1980 of the
Borrower;
     (d)  "ECEA"   means   the   Ethiopian   Customs   and  Excise
Administration of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (e)  "EFTC" means the Ethiopia Freight Transport Corporation,
established and operating pursuant to Proclamation No. 105 of 1987
of the Borrower;
     (f)  "MTA" means the  Marine Transport Authority, established
and operating pursuant  to  Proclamation  No.  139  of 1978 of the
Borrower;
     (g)  MTSC"   means   the   Maritime   and   Transit  Services
Corporation, established and  operating  pursuant  to Legal Notice
No. 81 of 1983 of the Borrower;
     (h)  "RTA" means  the  Road  Transport Authority, established
and operating pursuant  to  Proclamation  No.  107  of 1976 of the
Borrower;
     (i)  "EFTC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EFTC of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the EFTC Project Agreement;
     (j)  "MTSC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and MTSC of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the MTSC Project Agreement;
     (k)  "EFTC Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement to
Page  3
be entered into between  the  Borrower  and  EFTC pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.O1 (c) of this Agreement,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time;
     (l)  "MTSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement to
be entered into between  the  Borrower  and  MTSC pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.O1 (d) of this Agreement,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time;
     (m)  "CBE Subsidiary Loan  Agreement"  means the agreement to
be entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  CBE pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.O1 (e) of this Agreement,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time;
     (n)  "Subsidiary Loan  Agreements"  means,  collectively, the
EFTC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the MTSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and the CBE Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (o)  "Special Account" means the  account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (p)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to  an  exchange  of  letters,   dated  September  14,  1988,  and
October 11, 1988, and  dated  August  16,  1988, and September 14,
1988, between the Borrower and the Association; and
     (q)  "Letter  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the
Borrower and the Association dated  April 21, 1988 which provides,
inter alia, that on-lending rates  shall be positive in real terms
and  shall  provide   an   adequate   spread   for  the  Financial
intermediaries.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to fifty
five million eight  hundred  thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR
55,800,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The  Borrower  shall  open  and  maintain  in  dollars a
special account in  the  National  Bank  of  Ethiopia on terms and
conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall therefor be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1993, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
Page  4
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  July  15 and January 15
commencing July  15,  1999,  and  ending  January  15,  2029. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
January 15, 2009,  shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  5
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry  out, through MOTAC and
MOF, Parts A (3), C, D (1), (2)  and (5) and E of the Project, and
shall cause CBE to carry out  Part  A  (2) of the Project, EFTC to
carry out Parts A (1) and D  (3)  of the Project and MTSC to carry
out Parts B and  D  (4)  of  the  Project,  with due diligence and
efficiency and in  conformity  with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under this  Agreement,  the Borrower shall cause
EFTC and MTSC to perform in  accordance with the provisions of the
EFTC Project Agreement  and  the  MTSC  Project Agreement, all the
obligations of EFTC and  MTSC  therein  set  forth, shall take and
cause to be taken  all  action,  including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable EFTC and MTSC to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit  to  be  taken  any  action  which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  relend  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 33,300,000 to
EFTC under a subsidiary loan  agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and EFTC under  terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the  Association  and  which shall include, inter
alia, a repayment term  of  eight  years, including a grace period
not to exceed three years,  the  foreign exchange risk to be borne
by EFTC and an interest rate of eight percent (8%) per annum.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  relend  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit an amount not exceeding  the equivalent of SDR 5,400,000 to
MTSC under a subsidiary loan  agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and MTSC under  terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the  Association  and  which shall include, inter
alia, a repayment term  of  eight  years, including a grace period
not to exceed three years,  the  foreign exchange risk to be borne
by MTSC and an interest rate of eight percent (8%) per annum.
     (e)  The Borrower shall  relend  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit an amount not exceeding  the equivalent of SDR 9,300,000 to
CBE under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and CBE under  terms  and conditions which shall have
been approved by the  Association  and  which shall include, inter
alia, a repayment term  of  eight  years, including a grace period
not to exceed three years,  the  foreign exchange risk to be borne
by the Borrower and an interest  rate of 4% per annum, and further
relending to the private truckers  on  the  basis of the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (f)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary Loan  Agreements  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit,  and  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  by  June 30 of each
year, review with the  Association  the  rates  charged by CBE for
on-lending of the proceeds of the  Credit  under Part A (2) of the
Project; and (b) thereafter, take all measures necessary to ensure
that the rates conform to  the  terms  of the Letter Agreement, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Page  6
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set  forth  in  Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use of goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in  respect of Parts A (1) and
D (3) of the Project shall be  carried out by EFTC pursuant to the
EFTC Project Agreement and Parts B  and D (4) of the Project shall
be carried out by MTSC pursuant to the MTSC Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures  of  the  departments  or  agencies  of  the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower  shall,  at  the beginning of each
calendar quarter take all  appropriate  measures to make available
to MTSC and MTA the  necessary  foreign exchange requested by MTSC
and MTA to enable MTSC  and  MTA to promptly finance their foreign
Page  7
exchange requirements for that calendar quarter.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  after reviewing the Road  Tariffs Study, revise the road
tariffs taking into  account  the  findings  of  the study; and by
July 1, 1990, or such  later  date  acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association, put into effect the revised road tariffs adequate
to cover operating costs and  depreciation of plants, vehicles and
equipment of the trucking industry; and
     (b)  thereafter periodically review  with the Association the
adequacy of the level and structure of the road tariffs.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by July 1, 1990,  or  such  later date acceptable to the
Borrower and  the  Association,  adopt  and  put  into  effect the
revised  port  tariffs  adequate  to  cover  operating  costs  and
depreciation of plants, vehicles, and equipment of MTA; and
     (b)  thereafter periodically review  with the Association the
adequacy of the level and structure of the port tariffs.
     Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1990, adopt a
system for the operation of the Customs Office of ECEA in Assab on
the basis of two eight-hour shifts per day in order to provide for
more efficient administration of customs services.
     Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to
ensure that a  counterpart  is  assigned  to understudy every long
term (six months or more) consultant employed under the Project.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  (i)  Subject to paragraph (ii) of this Sub-Section:
               (A)   the right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of the ADB Loan or the EIB Loan made
                     to the  Borrower  for  the  financing  of the
                     Project shall have  been suspended, cancelled
                     or terminated in  whole  or in part, pursuant
                     to the terms of the ADB Loan Agreement or the
                     EIB Loan Agreement; or
               (B)   the ADB  Loan  or  the  EIB  Loan  shall have
                     become due and  payable  prior  to the agreed
                     maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Paragraph (i) of  this  Sub-Section shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation,  termination  or  prematuring  is not
               caused by the  failure  of  the Borrower to perform
               any of its  obligations  under  such agreement; and
               (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
               conditions consistent with  the  obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     (b)  EFTC or MTSC shall  have  failed  to  perform any of its
obligations under the respective Project Agreement.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that  EFTC  or MTSC will be able to
perform its obligations under  the  EFTC  Project Agreement or the
Page  8
MTSC Project Agreement, respectively.
     (d)  Proclamation No. 105 of 1987  of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed  or  waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of EFTC to perform any
of its obligations under the EFTC Project Agreement.
     (e)  Legal Notice No. 81 of  1983  of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed  or  waived so as to
affect materially and adversely  the  ability  of MTSC, to perform
any of its obligations under the MTSC Project Agreement.
     (f)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EFTC or MTSC or for the suspension of their operations.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the  event  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (d), (e) and (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.O1.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional  conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that  the   CBE   Subsidiary   Loan  Agreement,the  EFTC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and  the  MTSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement
have been executed on  behalf  of  the  Borrower and CBE, EFTC and
MTSC, respectively;
     (b)  that all conditions  precedent  to  the effectiveness of
the ADB  Loan  Agreement,  other  than  the  effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled;
     (c)  that all conditions  precedent  to  the effectiveness of
the EIB  Loan  Agreement,  other  than  the  effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
     (d)  that MTSC  shall  have  submitted  to  the Association a
draft agreement  to  be  entered  into  by  MTSC  and  a reputable
international freight-forwarding firm.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the EFTC  Project  Agreement  and  the MTSC Project
Agreement have been duly authorized  or ratified by EFTC and MTSC,
respectively,  and  are  legally   binding  upon  EFTC  and  MTSC,
respectively, in accordance with their terms; and
     (b)  that  the  CBE  Subsidiary   Loan  Agreement,  the  EFTC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and  the MTSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement
have been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  CBE,  EFTC and MTSC
respectively, and are  legally  binding  upon  CBE,  EFTC and MTSC
respectively, in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  9
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this  Agreement  shall cease and determine on the
date on which this  Agreement  shall  terminate  or on the date 15
years after the date  of  this  Agreement,  whichever shall be the
earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
Foreign Economic Relations is  designated as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Office of National Committee for
            Foreign Economic Relations
          P.O. Box 2428
          Addis Ababa
          Ethiopia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ONCFER ET                        21368
               Addis Ababa
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                    By /s/ Girma Amare
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  10
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 770,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 70% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Vehicles, equip-                            100% of foreign
     ment, spare                                 expenditures and
     parts and                                   70% of local
     materials for:                              expenditures
     (a)  MOTAC, EFTC,        32,660,000
          MTSC, RTA
          and Private
          Carriers
     (b)  ECEA                 1,300,000
(3)  Trucks for                7,860,000         100% of foreign
     Private                                     expenditures
     Carriers
(4)  Consultants'                                100% of foreign
     services for:                               expenditures
     (a)  MOTAC, EFTC,         2,830,000
          MTA, MTSC
          and RTA
     (b)  ECEA                   120,000
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Training for:                               100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  MOTAC, EFTC,           700,000
          MTA, MTSC
          and RTA
     (b)  ECEA                    80,000
(6)  Refunding of                590,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Pre-                                suant to Sec-
     paration                                    tion 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                     of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated               8,890,000
                              __________
          TOTAL               55,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
Page  11
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of  the  Borrower;  provided,  however,  that if the
currency of the Borrower is also  that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in
such currency for such  goods  or  services  shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  modernize the road
transport   industry,   improve   freight   forwarding   services,
strengthen the coordination  among  the  entities in the transport
sector and expand facilities at the Port of Assab.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Road Transport
(1)  EFTC
     (a)  Rehabilitation of about 475 trucks.
     (b)  Construction and  equipping  of  three workshops (Assab,
Dengego and Kombolcha)  for  EFTC  in selected regional locations,
provision of  eight  removeable  and  five  mobile  workshops, and
strengthening of procedures for use of workshop facilities.
     (c)  Acquisition and utilization  of  tractor trailers (about
80 power units and  about  150  trailers) with loading capacity of
about 30 tons each.
     (d)  Acquisition and utilization of spare parts and tires.
(2)  Credit to private truckers for:
     (a)  Rehabilitation of about 475 trucks.
     (b)  Acquisition and  utilization  of  about  100  trucks and
trailers with loading capacity of about 27 tons each.
     (c)  Acquisition and utilization of spare parts and tires.
(3)  RTA
     Strengthening  of  RTA's  capacity  in  road  traffic control
through the acquisition and installation of road safety, training,
vehicle inspection, and training workshop equipment.
Part B:   MTSC
(1)  Strengthening of the management  capacity of MTSC through the
introduction  of  cost  analysis  and  improved  tariff  analysis,
acquisition and utilization of electronic communication equipment,
computer equipment, cargo handling equipment and spare parts.
(2)  Carrying out of a  feasibility  and  engineering study for an
inland container depot in Addis Ababa.
Part C:   ECEA
Page  12
     Strengthening of ECEA through the acquisition and utilization
of vehicles, general equipment and office equipment.
Part D:   Institutional Development and Training
(1)  Strengthening of MOTAC in  its capacity to prepare, implement
and evaluate short, medium  and  long-term sectoral plans; coordi-
nate sectoral manpower planning  with  national planning; and plan
and coordinate  training  for  the  transport  sector  through the
provision of consultants' services and training.
(2)  Strengthening of MTA in the  areas of port operations, safety
administration, financial  management  and engineering maintenance
through the provision of consultants' services and training.
(3)  Strengthening of EFTC in  the  areas of project coordination,
spare  parts  distribution,   management  of  freight  operations,
vehicles  maintenance,   equipment   rehabilitation  and  computer
training  through  the  provision  of  consultants'  services  and
training.
(4)  Strengthening  of  MTSC  in  freight  forwarding  operations,
marine transit operations, cargo handling, shipping management and
the implementation of  maritime  regulations through the provision
of consultants' services and training.
(5)  Strengthening of RTA in the areas of planning and operations,
road safety  assessment,  procurement  and  disposal of mechanical
equipment, computer programming,  accident  prevention, road signs
arrangement, instructor training  and  drivers'  education and the
administration  of  customs  procedures  and  the  acquisition and
utilization of workshop  machinery  and  training vehicles through
the provision of consultants' services and training.
(6)  Strengthening  of  ECEA  in  customs  operations  and control
through the provision of consultants' services and training.
Part E:   Port of Assab
     Construction of a  multipurpose  terminal;  construction of a
quay wall; dredging of the  approach  to  the quay and the turning
basins; filling  of  area  behind  the  berths with hydraulically-
placed dredged  material;  and  construction  and  equipping  of a
workshop and cargo handling facilities.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in Ethiopia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Page  13
1.   Spare parts and tires may be  procured (on the basis of a 70%
to 30% allocation,  respectively)  under contracts awarded through
limited  international  bidding   procedures   on   the  basis  of
evaluation and comparison of  bids  invited  from  a list at least
three qualified suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set  forth  in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines  (excluding  paragraphs  2.8,  2.9,  2.55  and 2.56
thereof).
2.   Civil works under Part  A  (1)  (b)  of  the Project shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Goods for Parts B and C  of the Project may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least  three suppliers from at least
two  different  countries   eligible   under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works, vehicles,
spare  parts,  equipment  and  materials  estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures  shall  be  modified  to  ensure that the
conformed copy of the  contract  required  to  be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to  ensure that the conformed copy of
the contract together with  the  other  information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to  the  Association  as  part  of  the  evidence  to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  14
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (4)  and  (5)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts A through D of  the  Project  and  to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the respective authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
                by the Association  from  the Credit Account under
                the eligible  Categories,  and  in  the equivalent
                amounts, as  shall  have  been  justified  by said
                documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrowerdirectly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Page  15
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for  Parts A through D of the
Project, less the  amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
entered into by the  Association  pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to  Parts  B and C of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of  twice  the amount of the respective
Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the Credit
Account  of  the  remaining   unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for  Parts A through D of the
Project shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the respective Special Account as of  the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                    Credit to Private Truckers
                                Extent of
1.   Terms                      Financing       Duration
     (a)  Purchase of public    75%             5 Years
          or freight com-
          mercial vehicles
          (New)
     (b)  Repair of commer-     75% of the      3 Years
          cial vehicles         reparation
          (Major repairs)       cost
     (c)  Financing garage      75% of the      3 Years
          project (Equip-       Project
          ment tools)           cost
     (d)  Destroyed             100%            5 Years
          vehicles
Page  16
     (e)  Customs and           Up to 100%      4 Years
          other charges
          for commercial
          vehicles imported
          on Franco-Valuta
          basis
     (f)  Interest rate         8.0%
          (per annum)
2.   Collateral
     The vehicle itself and personal guarantee.
3.   Requirements
     Financial statement or commercial  credit report to determine
     repayment capacity.
     Estimation papers of the vehicles, project or reparation cost
     documents.
     Insurance policies for comprehensive and (BSG) covers.
     Other relevant documents as the case may require.
4.   Selection Criteria
     To qualified  applicants  priority  will  be  given  to those
     private  truckers  who  lost  their  vehicles  in war-related
     hostilities, with the remainder to  be selected on a lottery-
     based system.
