RETURN TOC
REPORlTS  DES~K                                             RESTRICTED
REPORT  DçK                  zr innn                     Report No. PTR-32b
WITHIN                     rILE COPYR
ONE WEEK
This report was prepored for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
SENEGAL
June 1, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



cuu=ci EquzYalNs(AS OF ARWIT 1969)
Currency Uit1        CFA Franc (CFA?)
CFAF 1             - US$0.0036
CFA? 278-          - U$1
CFAF 1,000,000       U tS$3,600
FISCAL YETm
July 1 to Jun. 30
MExTS AND NHSURES
letric
METRIC:  RITISHES EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)                 0.62 mdles (mi)
i meter (m)                     3.28 feet (tt)
1 square Iolaeter (km2)          0.386 equare aile  (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                n 2.47 acres (ac)
i liter (1)                      0.22 gallons (lurrial)
0.26 gallom (US)
1 metric ton (n ton)           - 2,204 pownds (lba)
ABREVIATIONS
AOP         - Afrique Occidentale Française
ADr         - Arqge Daily Traffic
CEBTP       - Centre Experimental de Recherches et d'Etudes du
Batîment et des Travaux IPablice
CIF         - Coot Insurance Fright
CTn         - Comdte des Transports, du N)teriel et des Produits Agricoles
FAC         - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED         - Fonde Bhropeen de Developpement
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
KfW         - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, A.G.
LBTP        - Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
OGAS        - Office de Commrcialisation Agricole du Senegal
OhGATEC     - Societe Africaine d'Etudes Tochniques
PfD         - Public Works Directorate
SE3ECOT     - Societe d'Etude. Generales et de Cooperation Technique
UNDP        - United Nations Develop.nt Programme



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......................................
1.   INTRODUCTION .......................1
2.  BACKGROUND .............................,                         2
A.   Economic Setting .............................,             2
B. The Transport System.                                         3
General.                                              3
Highways.                                             4
Railways.                                             4
Ports and Waperways.                                  5
Airports.                                             5
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination.                          5
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR.                                                7
A.   Administration ...................--.-.-.---                7
B. Financing and Planning .                                      8
C. Engineering and Construction.                                 8
D. Maintenance ................,                                 9
E. Vehicle Fleet and Traffic .10
4. THE PROJECT ................          ..,                         10
A. Description .10
B. Construction of Feeder Roads 1.
C.  Purchase of Road Maintenance Equipment
and Vehicles .12
D.   Road Improvement and Maintenance Study .12
E. Cost Estimates and Financing .12
F. Execution .14
Construction of Feeder Roads .14
Purchase of Road Maintenance
Equipment and Vehicles .14
Road Improvement and Maintenance Study                15
(continued)
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. Duncan (Consultant), E. Haker
(Economist) and G. Chaix (Engineer), and was edited by Miss J. Murphy.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................,..............             15
A. Feeder Roads .15
B. Maintenance Equipment .17
6. RECOMMENDATIONS..                                                     18
TABLES
1.   Length and Classification of National Roads
2.   Expenditures and Sources of Funds for Highways - 1963-1969
3.   Vehicle Fleet
4.   Road Vehiele Fuel Consumption
5.   Design Standards - Feeder Roads
6.   Project Cost Estimates
7.   Vehicle Operating Costs for a 6.7-Ton Truck
8.   Cost/Benefit Analysis
CHART
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works
MAPS
1.   SENEGAL:  Main Road Network
2.   SINE SALOUM:  Feeder Road Network and Project Roads



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Senegal has a well-developed transport system capable of meeting
the country's transport demand within the foreseeable future, as well as
that of the foreign trade of neighboring, landlocked Mali. There are rela-
tively few opportunities for investments in the transport sector that would
have a significant developmental impact; these relate to quite specific
needs. Since independence (1960), the Bank Group has financed two proj-
ecte: the firet one concerne the national railway, which is being rehabil-
itated and modernized with the assistance of a US$9 million Credit, while
the other consiste of dredging and quay improvements in the Port of Dakar,
flnanced by a US$4 million Loan. Both projects are behind schedule.
ii.       A third area where IDA assistance would be beneficial concerne
limited road improvement and maintenance works, especially on the feeder
road network which has been relatively neglected in the past ten years
and is in poor condition.  The project constitutes a first step in this
direction, and consiste of the following elements:
(a)  the construction of 78 km of important feeder
roads serving groundnut areas and the supervision
of the construction by the Public Works Directorate
(PWD);
(b)  the purchase of road maintenance equipment and
vehicles; and
(c)  the services of consultants for a road improve-
ment and maintenance study, with special emphasis
on feeder roads.
iii.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$2.5 million
equivalent, includi,ig contingencies. The foreign exchange component,
corresponding to about 84% of project cost, is estimated at US$2.1 mil-
lion equivalent, and will be financed by the proposed credït. Execution
of the project willîbe the responsibility of the PWD.
iv.        The construction of 78 km of feeder roads ie a firat step in
the improvement of the feeder road network of the Sine Saloum region,
where 40% of the country's groundnuts are grown. Between 80-90% of the
traffic on this network is directly or lndirectly associated with ground-
nut production. Groundnuts are the mainstay of the market economy of
Senegal, and account for about two-thirds of its exporte. Despite long-
range plans to diversify agriculture, groundnuts will remain the principal
item in foreign exchange earnings within the foreseeable future. The
Sine Saloum region is particularly suited for their cultivation. Im-
proved roada in groundnut production areas will facilitate the work



- il -
of government agencies seeking to increase output of this crop by 20%
under a three-year program (1969/70-1971/72) for which Baank Group
assistance of US$9.5 million was made available early in 1969. The
quantifiable benefits associated with the construction of the feeder
roads are expected to yield economic rates of return of about 10%-15%.
v.        The road improvement and maintenance study will lay the basis
for a four-year improvement and maintenance program (1970/71-1973/74)
with special emphasis on the feeder road network. The Government and
IDA consider it desirable to review and study in a broad context all
aspects of road improvement and maintenance work, including planning,
budgeting, organization, execution and training, with a view to draft-
ing this four-year program which would be suitable for Bank Group
assistance.  The itprovement works to be executed and the equipment to
be purchased under such a program are expected to yield high economic
returns. One of the main items to be studied in the program will be
the improvement work required on most of the feeder road network in
the Sine Saloum region not included in the proposed project. Pending
completion and review of this study, a sum of US$1.0 million has been
provided in the project to purchase the most urgently required mainte-
nance equipment which will be defined early in the study and therefore
be placed in operation with a minimum of delay.
vi.       Performance under the railway credit (Credit 96-SE, 1966) has
not been satisfactory. Project execution is about two years behind
schedule, primarily because the Government has not fulfilled its obliga-
tions under the Credit and Project Agreements to provide promptly ade-
quate funds to finance part of the local costs of the project. During
negotiations for the proposed highway project, the Government provided
satisfactory guarantees that it would meet all of its commitments with-
out further delay.
vii.      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
in the amount of US$2.1 million equivalent.



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Senegal has asked the Association to help
finance a project consisting of:
(a) the construction of 78 km of important feeder
roads serving groundnut areas and the supervision
of the construction by the Public Works Director-
ate (PWD);
(b) the purchase of road maintenance equipment and
vehicles; and
(c) the services of consultants for a road improve-
ment and maintenance study, with special emphasis
on feeder roads.
The cost of the project is estimated at US$2.5 million equivalent; the
Government has requested a credit from the Association to meet foreign
exchange costs amounting to about 84% of the total, corresponding to
about US$2.1 million equivalent.
1.02      The project will improve the relatively heavily trafficked
feeder roads in groundnut-growing areas of the Sine Saloum region, will
establish the basis for a four-year (1970/71-1973/74) road improvement
and maintenance program with special emphasis on feeder roade, and will
provide for urgently required road maintenance equipment and vehicle
needs.
1.03      This will be the third Bank Group Loan/Credit for the
Senegalese transport sector; the first (Credit 96-SE, 1966) was for
US$9.0 million equivalent to finance the current rehabilitation and
modernization program of the national railway (Regie des Chemins de Fer
du Senegal), and the second (Loan 493-SE, 1967) was for US$4.0 million
equivalent to finance quay wall reconstruction, quay extensions and
dredging in the Port of Dakar (Port Autonome de Dakar). Prior to inde-
pendence, a Bank Loan was made (Loan 100-FR, 1954) for US$7.5 million to
the Caisse Centrale des Chemins de Fer D'Outre-Mer for dieselization,
part of which went to the then Dakar-Niger Railway.
1.04      Performance under the railway credit (Credit 96-SE, 1966) has
not been satisfactory. Project execution is about two years behind sched-
ule. The Government of Senegal and the national railway have been in de-
fault under various provisions of the Credit and Project Agreements. Spe-
cific action vas required on tariff increases for passenger fares, budget
amendments, collection of receivables, auditing, and allocation of ground-
nut consignments to rail. Most issues were resolved before the Government
was invited to negotiate the proposed highway project. Several issues re-



mained outstanding, the most important being inadequate provision of funds
to finance part of the local costs. During negotiations for the proposed
highway project, the outstanding matters vere discussed and the Government
provided satisfactory guarantees that it would meet all its commitments
under the railway project without further delay, particularly that it would
provide promptly adequate funds to finance part of the local costs.
1.05      The port project financed by Loan 493-SE (1967) is about 10
months behind schedule due to administrative delays in preparing and award-
ing a contract for dredging work. Project completion is now scheduled for
April 1971, and the work completed so far is satisfactory.
1.06      The basis for the present project was prepared by a mission
from the Bank's Permanent Mission to Western Africa (PMWA) which visited
Senegal in 1965 and identified a need for feeder road construction in
groundnut production areas. Subsequently, the Government commissioned
a Sengalese consulting firm, ORGATEC, to carry out feasibility studies
for a number of feeder road projects. Additional work on a number of
economic questions requested by two subsequent Bank missions was completed
by ORGATEC in early 1969. The studies showed that for four road sections
totalling 78 km, economie benefits were sufficient to justify new construc-
tion. For the remaining 400 km of groundnut roads in the Sine Saloum
region, the findings showed that improvement works rather than construc-
tion would be adequate.
1.07      The terms of reference of ORGATEC, however, did not include an
analysis of the various levels and types of improvement that could be
economically justified and an assessment of the best means to carry out
the improvement works. In allowing for a road improvement and maintenance
-tudy and for the purchase of US$1.0 million equivalent worth of urgently
needed maintenance equipment, the project constitutes a first phase of an
improvement and maintenance program on a national scale with special em-
phasis on the feeder road network. This program will no doubt provide
for the required improvement of most of the groundnut or feeder road net-
work of the Sine Saloum region not included in the present project.
1.08      This report is based on the findinge of an appraisal mission
consisting of Mr. Duncan (consultant), Mr. Haker (economist), and Mr. Chaix
(engineer), who visited Senegal in May 1969, and on economic studies by
the consultants ORGATEC. The report was edited by Miss -. Murphy.
2. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      The Republic of Senegal covers an area of about 200,000 km2
bordered by the Atlantic Ocean on the west, Mauritania on the north, Mali
on the east, and Guinea and Portuguese Guinea on the south. Gambia, a
former British Colony, forms a narrow enclave in the southern part of the



- 3-
country. The 1969 population of Senegal was about 3.8 million and has been
growing at about 2.2% per annum. About 20% of the population is urban
and concentrated in the provinces of Cap Vert and Thies. Dakar, the capi-
tal, has a population of about 570,000.
2.02      Senegal's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was estimated to be US$745
million in 1969, and in real terms grew at a little over 3% per annum during
the 1960-69 period. GDP per capita averaged almost US$200 in 1969. While
this is well above average for African countries south of Sahara, it is
barely keeping pace with population growth. One of the reasons for the un-
satisfactory growth rate is that prior to independence Dakar was also the
capital of the Afrique Occidentale Francaise (AOF) which comprised nine West
African countries. Senegal's economy was geared to this role and to a
large degree of interdependence between member countries. After inde-
pendence in 1960 the AOF broke up, and Dakar's role was reduced. Dakar
became the capital of the Mali Federation, consisting of Senegal and Mali,
but the Federation broke up in a matter of months. Since that time
Senegal has been going through a process of retrenchment and adjustment
to a more modest role in the economic life of West Africa.
2.03      Agriculture employs 80% of the working population, and is the
main source of econcmic activity. The predominant crop is groundnuts,
which accounts for one-third of agricultural income and three-quarters of
the country's export earnings. To minimize the reduction in income to farm-
ers arising from losses due to the termination of preferential prices in
the French market, the Government aims to bring about a 20% overall in-
crease in groundnut production over a three-year period (1969/70-1971/72)
under a program financed by the Bank Group (Loan 584-SE/Credit 140-SE,
1969) in an amount of US$9.5 million. Credit will be made available to
cooperatives for purchase of simple animal-drawn farm implements, draft
animals and fertilizer; consultants will assist in the management of the
cooperatives' supply and marketing institution, and will make recommenda-
tions for the allocation of groundnuts among the various modes of trans-
port.
2.04      Diversification of agricultural production is also being vigor-
ously encouraged by the Government, as a fundamental long-term objective
of its development strategy. The crops most favored for inclusion in a
diversification program are cotton, rice and vegetables. Despite this di-
versification, however, groundnuts will remain the most important item
in Senegal's foreign exchange earnings within the foreseeable future.
B. The Transport System
(i) General
2.05      With the exception of the feeder road network discussed below,
the transport infrastructure is well developed and generally in good con-
dition; it has consîderable excess capacity that is capable of meeting,
within the foreseeable future, transport demand which might be generated
either internally or in neighboring Mali, Mauritania and Gambia. The
transport arteries fan out from the Dakar-Thies area which contains the



-4-
main port and nearly all the industrial development (see Map 1). In
general, with increasing distance from this focal area, the country is
less developed and less populated, and the network becomes less dense.
2.06      There is a close relationship between Senegal's transport net-
work and those of neighboring Gambia and Mali. The Port of Dakar and
the railway between Dakar and Kidira on the frontier with Mali handle
most of the latter's export and import trade. One of Senegal's main
transport arteries requires passage through Gambia, so that from a planning
viewpoint the two systems are interdependent and, therefore, require a
close degree of cooperation. A step in this direction has been the estab-
lishnent in 1967 of the Secretariat Permanent pour le Traite d'Association
Sene-Gambien to coordinate economic policy, including joint transport
planning. However, the Secretariat does not, as yet, function as an ef-
fective body.
2.07      The main traffic flows consist of phosphates, groundnuts and
agricultural and forestry products such as cotton, rice, millet and
charcoal. Both in terms of quantities and ton-km, phosphates and ground-
nuts are the most important items. Groundnuts move from the field to
processing plants or ports during the dry season from December until
June. According to Government policy, groundnut traffic carried over
distances of 150 km or more should be transported by rail since available
information indicates that the economic costs of railway transport are
lower than those for road transport for such distances. Despite this
stated policy, however, the major portion of the crop moves by road trans-
port even though in most cases haulage distances are considerably above
150 km (see also paras. 2.16 and 2.17).
(ii) Highways
2.08      The road network totals about 9,000 km, of which about 2,000 km
are bituminous paved (Table 1). The trunk roads are in generally good
condition; design standards are adequate and well suited to present traf-
fic requirements and those within the foreseeable future. The condition
of the secondary network is generally good, but that of feeder roads is
poor. Half of the feeder road network consists of mere trails that are
not maintained, and are frequently impassable during the rainy season.
Many of these roads require limited improvements. The main reasons for
this state of affairs are lack of equipment and of professional staff and
budgetary difficulties. The present project is aimed at providing initial
remedy to these difficulties by allowing the purchase of urgently needed
maintenance equipment, and by the inclusion of a study whose outcome
will be an improvement and maintenance program that will give special
emphasis to the requirements of the feeder road system.
(iii) Railways
2.09      There are about 1,000 km of railways.  The rail system includes
the main line from Dakar to Kidira on the Mali border which continues to
Bamako and Koulikoro in Mali, and a major branch connecting Dakar with



- 5 -
St. Louis in the north. Other branches serve Linguere, Touba and Kaolack
in groundnut areas and the Taiba phosphate mine. Railway traffic has in-
creased from 1.0 million tons (140 million ton-km) in 1961 to 1.8 million
tons (338 million ton-km) in 1967/68. Most of the increase is accounted
for by the expansion in phosphate production, and by Mali traffic that
had ceased altogether between 1960 and 1963 after the break up of the
West African Federation. By 1972/73, the end of the Third Four-Year Plan
period, traffic is expected to grow to 400 million ton-km.  Despite the
rather large increase in recent years, most of the system is still lightly
trafficked, i.e. under 250,000 tons per km per annum, and the future growth
rates are expected to be limited. Passenger traffic has been stationary
since 1962 at about 3.8 million passengers per annum.
(iv) Ports and Waterways
2.10      Dakar is the well-equipped, main port.  In addition, there are
three secondary ports: St. Louis, Kaolack and Ziguinchor. No major in-
vestments are forecast for the near future, but fishing facilities includ-
ing quays are planned for the ports of Dakar and St. Louis. Rivers are not
significant in the country's transport system except the Saloum and Casamance
Rivera, which are navigable by 3,000-ton ships as far upriver as Kaolack and
Ziguinchor, respectively. A study being financed by UNDP will determine the
feasibility of improvement works designed to facilitate navigation on the
Senegal River.
(v) Airports
2.11      An international airport is located at Dakar, suitable for large
jet aircraft.  It is one of the main international airports in West Africa.
The number of aircraft movements in 1967 was about 10,000; passenger traf-
fic amounted to about 140,000 and freight to about 4,500 tons; these
figures show almost no increase over 1962, reflecting the relative decline
that has taken place in Dakar's importance for West Africa since that date
(see also para. 2.02). A dozen outlying towns are served by the national
airline, Air Senegal, by both scheduled and charter operations. Doamestic
air passenger and freight traffic is an insignificant element in national
totals.
C. Transport Policy and Coordination
2.12      Transport coordination, in the sense of a set of policy measures
under which traffic is channeled to various modes of transport on a least-
cost basis, does not exist in Senegal. The absence of adequate transport
coordination was recognized both by the Government and the Association at
the time of the railway credit (Credit 96-SE, 1966), and in this connec-
tion the long-term objectives of the Government were adequately defined
in a letter to the Association. The project financed under the railway
credit also included a railway costing study that was completed in 1967.



- 6-
2.13      During the same year, a coordinating committee was established
for the first time, called the Comite des Transports du Materiel et des
Produits Agricoles (CTMA). The Committee consists of eight members, in-
cluding the Director of Transport of the Ministry of Public Works acting
as chairman. The Ministries of Finance and Planning, the national rail-
way, the Federation Nationale des Transporteurs du Senegal, the ship-
owner's association, and two agricultural marketing organizations each
have one member on the Committee.  The Committee has the authority to
allocate groundnuts, millet, fertilizer, rice, phosphates and some lesser
agricultural products between competing forms of transport "in accordance
with their capacities." These products together account for more than
80% of transport demand in Senegal. The Committee does not have adequate
data on road transport costs and makes insufficient use of the railway
cost data collected under the study mentioned in para. 2.12.
2.14      The Government follows a rather strict licensing policy concern-
ing truck operators, and an application for a truck license can be refused
on the grounds that existing trucking capacity is "adequate" to meet
Senegal's needs. Road user levies are very high. Gasoline taxes are
US¢13 equivalent per liter and diesel fuel taxes are USç10.3 equivalent per
liter; these rates are expected to increase by about 20% in 1970. Taxes
and duties on vehicles, tires and spare parts range from about 40% to
70% of the CIF price for imports from European Common Market countries
to up to three times these rates for imports from certain other countries.
In addition, annual vehicle licensing fees total some US$133 for a six-
ton truck; truckers also pay a 13.5% turnover tax on their annual gross
revenues. Due to the complicated tax system and lack of consolidated
road user revenue data, precise totals are not available, but it is esti-
mated that road users contributed about CFAF 6.5 billion (US$23 milllon
equivalent) in FY 1968, a typical year, while total road-related outlays
by the Government that year were less than CFAF 2.1 billion (US$8 million
equivalent) (Table 2).
2.15      By contrast, railway revenues are insufficient to cover out-
of-pocket expenses. The principal causes for the present railway deficits
are:
(a)  low passenger tariffs (30% of gross revenues are from
passenger traffîc compared with 70% of train-miles);
(b) lower-than-cost phosphate transport rates; and
(c) railway's inability to attract sufficient quantities
of groundnut traffle, especially over longer hauls.
2.16      Coordination problems are severe, especially for groundnut
traffic.  The stated policy of the CTMA, which is the coordinating body,
is to have all groundnut traffic arrive at Dakar by rail, but less than
40% does so, indicating absence of sufficient authority to enforce deci-
sions.  Truck tariffs for groundnuts transported on earth trails range be-
tween CFAF 23-28 per ton-km, for earth roads they range between CFAF 18-23,



for gravel roads CFAF 15, and for asphalt roads CFAF 12. These rates
appear to be high in relation to costs, suggesting monopolistic practices
which are reinforced by the Government's restrictive licensing policies.
However, in the case of groundnuts transported on asphalt roads parallel
to the railways, tariffs are as low as CFAF 8 which is both below costs
and below the railway tariff of CFAF 8.57 per ton-km. Due to the way the
CTMA functions (described in para. 2.13) and the small difference in road
and rail tariffs, the role of the price mechanism in the distribution of
groundnut traffic between road and rail is rather ineffective.
2.17      Groundnuts appear to be transported at higher economic cost by
trucks, while the railway, which prima facie appears to be better suited
to carry the long-haul groundnut traffic, has deficits due to an absence
of sufficient traffic offered. In summary, the transport sector operates
under a highly restrictive system which insulates it from resource allo-
cation through the workings of the price mechanism and even when allowed
to function, it does so in a distorted fashion. Before this situation
can be remedied, an investigation of some transport coordination problens
is required, whose principal focus will be the transport of groundnuts.
In the framework of the reorganization of the groundnut marketing institu-
tion under a Bank Group agricultural project (Loan 584-SE/Credit 140-SE,
1969), consultants will provide recommendations for the allocation of
groundnut traffic between road and rail (para. 2.03).
3. TUE 1IIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Administration
3.01      Responsibility for the national highway system rests with the
Public Works Directorate (PWD) within the Ministry of Public Works, Urban
Development and Transport (see chart).
3.02      Planning, studies and engineering of roads are handled within
the PWD by the Design Office (Bureau d'Etudes), headed by a Chief Engin-
eer who is Deputy D)irector of Public Works. The seven political regions
of Senegal correspond to the PWD's administrative divisions which in
turn comprise several subdivisions. The subdivisions have immediate
field responsibility for road construction supervision and maintenance;
they are frequently charged with construction supervision and maintenance
of other public works and government buildings. Major equipment mainte-
nance and repairs are centralized in the PWD's workshop in Dakar, known
as the Central Equipment Division; it is a major facility, in contrast
with the small and poorly equipped division shops in the field.
3.03      Several senior posts at PWD headquarters in Dakar are staffed
by expatriate engineers provided by French teclinical assistance, financed
by FAC; but Senegalese replacements are being trained under a gradual and



- 8-
deliberate "africanization" policy. A Senegalese has been appointed re-
cently as Director of Public Works to replace the expatriate incumbent.
The senïor posts in divisions and subdivisions are held by qualified and
experienced Senegalese graduate engineers.
B. Financing and Planning
3.04      Highway expenditures for administration and mnaintenance are
financed by revenues from the general budget. Those for highway construc-
tion are financed through a road fund and foreign aid. Originally the
revenues of the road fund were raised from earmarked taxes, but since
FY 1964, this practice has been abolished, and the road fund is treated
as a capital budget item to which yearly lump sum allocations are made.
Such allocations have been constant since 1963 at CFAF 650 million
(US$2.3 million). For annual investments above this amount, Senegal has
been exclusively dependent on foreign assistance.
3.05      Annual commitments for all highway purposes have been steady since
FY 1965 at about US$7.9 million per annum consisting of: administration
US$3.0 million, maintenance US$2.6 million, and construction US$2.3 mil-
lion (Table 2). Expenditures on administration are on the high side and
are indicative of overstaffing, although certain types of staff such as
maintenance engineers and high echelon personnel are in short supply.
Budgetary commitments for construction expenditures for FY 1963 and
FY 1964 (US$10.4 million and US$14.6 million, respectively) were largely
made possible through major foreign assistance from FED, FAC and KfW.
During the Second Four-Year Plan (1965/66-1968/69), little foreign aid
was available for road construction, and as a result expenditures dropped
sharply and only 24% of the US$40 million construction program was real-
ized. However, this outcome has turned out to be fortunate since many of
the projects which were not executed through lack of funds were unjusti-
fied from an economic viewpoint.
3.06      The Third Four-Year Plan (1969/70-1972/73) calls for a total
investment of about US$28 million for the construction and improvement of
about 1,200 km of all types of roads.  This Plan is likely to run into
the same type of difficulty as the preceding one since it also places
considerable reliance on foreign financial assistance which is not likely
to be forthcoming at the expected level. The Plan includes a considerable
number of reconstruction projects carried over from the previous Plan that
are not economically justified. However, if these projects would be re-
duced to limited improvement works, their justification would be consider-
ably enhanced in many cases; these projects will therefore be considered
under the improvement and maintenance study which is included in the
present project.
C. Engineering and Construction
3.07      The PWD customarily relies on its own staff for engineering of
minor projects and for supervision of construction. Its performance in
this respect has been satisfactory. Consultants are charged with design



- 9 -
of major road projects. Construction works are let to contractors on the
basis of competitive bidding; qualified contractors are classified accord-
ing to capabilities and registered with the Ministry. Several large
French contractors are currently active locally in road construction and
other public works, but the volume of work available is waning and compe-
tition is likely to be keen for a road contract such as would be awarded
to construct the feeder roads in this project.
D. Maintenance
3.08      Routine road maintenance is handled by PWD with its own forces,
while patching, sealing, and strengthening of bituminous pavements are
carried out by contract. Maintenance costs are recorded by the PWD, but
not in meaningful detail; overall figures are not broken down on an in-
dividual road basis. Maintenance operations on earth roads are mostly
mechanized. Qualified operators and mechanics are plentiful; they work
under the direction of trained supervisors. Techniques are satisfactory
but there is a need for new, more efficient equipment and modern work-
shop facilities in the field. Spare parts are slow to reach the shops
because the PWD does not have a central parts storage and distribution
organization and because procurement from Dakar-based equipment dealers
is time-consuming due to poor organization.
3.09      Maintenance of bituminous pavements such as patching and seal-
ing, or resurfacing, is carried out by contractors; awards are made on
the basis of competitive bidding. These operations are scheduled and
executed on a regular, planned basis with sufficient budget allocations;
the sound appearance of these roads bespeaks the adequacy of their main-
tenance to date. However, many of the pavements are relatively new and
have yet to require any substantial maintenance.
3.10      The Central Equipment Division in Dakar is in charge of a central
equipment pool, the workshop and the stores, and handles major repairs and
overhaul of PWD equipment. Routine maintenance of equipment is undertaken
in the field by the PWD divisions. The Central Equipment Division is
handicapped by the administrative framework within which it operates.
Its reorganization is desirable, with particular attention to such areas
as modern cost accounting, inventory control, spare parts storage and
distribution, and other management practices. The terms of reference of
the road improvement and maintenance study are designed to ensure that
specific recommendations will be formulated concerning the reorganization
of the Central Equipment Division.
3.11      Over the last five years, annual road maintenance outlays have
ranged from CFAF 640 million to CFAF 835 million (US$2.3-3 million equiv-
alent).  During FY 1968 the PW1) spent an average of about US$400 per km
for asphalt roads, excluding the relatively heavily trafficked ones in the
Cap Vert region. About US$180 per km were spent for gravel and earth
roads including equipment depreciation; this average conceals the fact that
on many of the gravel roads of the primary network, annual expenditures may



- 10 -
be as high as US$310, but for some secondary roads thiey are at an unsatis-
factory level and many of the feeder roads are not maintained at all.
3.12      One of the main causes of this state of affairs is the inade-
quacy of the existing maintenance equipment. Superficially, the Ministry
of Public Works appears to be adequately equipped, but most of the equip-
ment is overage and obsolete. For example, of the 68 graders recently in-
ventoried, 29 are twenty years or older and are out ot service most of the
time. An additional 13 are between 10 and 20 years old; these units are
obsolete, require constant repair, and are costly to iperate. Sixteen
of the 30 shovel loaders, 9 out of the 23 bulldozers and 16 out of the
67 tractors are also over 20 years old and are almost useless. The lim-
ited equipment which is in satisfactory condition is mainly utilized in
maintaining the trunk system, while secondary and feeder roads are ne-
glected. This explains their present run-down condition. There is no
doubt that if the present situation is allowed to continue the condition
of the main road system will also begin to deteriorate as traffic in-
creases. Equipment renewals must be complemented by net additions to the
fleet.  One of the main aims of the road improvenient and maintenance
study which is included in the present project will be to assess the
equipment needs of the PWD.
E.  Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
3.13       In 1968 there were about 53,000 vehicles in Senegal consisting
of about 32,600 passenger cars, 2,500 buses and 17,900 trucks (Table 3).
Vehicle density is one per 68 persons which is substantially higher than
average for African countries south of the Sahara. About 60% of the
vehicle fleet is situated in Dakar and its immediate vicinity. The
vehicle fleet grew at about 5.5% per annum between 1963 and 1968.
3.14      The highway network is lightly trafficked.  Only 1,000 km of
roads have ADT's of 500 or more and they are all within a radius of 300
km from Dakar. From the available traffic count data it is not possible
to calculate traffic growth rates. Fuel consumption, which grew at 1.8%
per annum between 1959 and 1967, is the best available indicator of traf-
fic growth trends (Table 4).
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(a) construction of four feeder roads, totalling 78 km, in
groundnut production areas (see Map 2), and supervision
of construction by PWD;
(b) purchase of road maintenance equipment and vehicles; and



- il -
(c) the services of consultants for a road improvement and
maintenance study, with special emphasis on the feeder
road network.
B. Construction of Feeder Roads
4.02      All-weather feeder roads are needed in groundnut production
areas to replace the unimproved seasonal tracks over which goods and pas-
sengers now move unreliably and at high cost. These earth tracks have
generally developed along footpaths and donkey cart trails; they are
frequently ill-defined and are hardly ever maintained. Such roads gener-
ally run over flat, silty or sandy terrain, and drainage is a problem
during the rainy season.
4.03      Detailed engineering plans for the four feeder roads are comn-
plete. They were prepared by a French consultant, SEGECOT, with the
assistance of the PWD's Central Soils Laboratory (Laboratoire du Batiment
et des Travaux Publics) (LBTP). Design standards (Table 5) were reviewed
by IDA and found to be higher than necessary, leading to investment costs
that could not be economically justified. IDA therefore proposed, among
other changes, that the formation width be reduced from 7 m to 6 m, and
the laterite base thickness from 15 cm to 12 cm. The project has been
appraised on the basis of these revised standards, which reduce costs by
25% and enhance the economics of the project substantially.
4.04      During negotiations, the Governnent agreed upon the revisions in
design standards and made available a revised bill of quantities reflecting
the changes. The PWD prepared the specifications and the contract documents,
which have been reviewed by the Association and found ta be satisfactory.
4.05      The feeder roads to be constructed can be described as main
evacuation roads located in high yield areas. Each road funnels the pro-
duce from several minor feeder roads en route to railheads and the main
trunk road system; they are the following:
Description                    Length km
Koungheul - Lour                   26
Maleine Hodar - Delbi              17
Kaffrine - Katakiel                19
Sokone - Diaye-Diaye               16
7 8
The estimated cost of the construction based on the revised standards is
US$789,000 including the cost of supervision by PWD.  Costs for detailed
engineering have been wholly borne by the Government and will not be fi-
nanced under the project.



- 12 -
C. Purchase of Road Maintenance Eguipment and Vehicles
4.06      Road maintenance equipment and vehicles operated by the PWD were
inventoried in 1966; the condition of each unit was also evaluated.  Tiis
inventory has just been updated, and most of the equipment is rated as
either overage, obsolete and beyond economic repair, or ill-suited and
inefficient. The current Four-Year Economic Development Plan includes
a substantial amount, about US$2.0 million equivalent, for equipment pur-
chases. This sum provides both for minimum renewals which the PWD will
require over the Plan period, and for new types of high performance equip-
ment which should be substituted for inappropriate units.
4.07      This project includes purchase of road maintenance equipment and
vehicles amounting to US$1.0 million equivalent or about one-half of the
sum that has been allocated for this purpose in the Third Four-Year Plan.
The range of equipment to be purchased with IDA financing will primarily
respond to the specialized needs of a stepped-up level of maintenance for
secondary and feeder roads and improvement of feeder roads. The detailed
list of equipment to be purchased under this item will be defined early in
the road improvement and maintenance study.
D. Road Improvement and Maintenance Study
4.08      The principal objective of the study is the preparation of a
four-year road improvement and maintenance program for 1970/71-1973/74,
with special emphasis on the feeder road network. The study will also
define types and levels of improvement works; it will make suitable recom-
mendations on the best means for their execution, whether by force account
or by local contractors. The study will investigate the organizational
problems of present maintenance operations, and will make recommnendations
on how they can be improved. It will also provide the detailed list of
equipment to be purchased under this project, within 3 months of the study's
contract effective date. Integration of the study within the proposed
project was therefore deemed advisable.
4.09      The four-year road improvement and maintenance program result-
ing from the study could form the basis of further Bank Croup assistance
to the highway sector. The estimated cost of the study is about
US$245,000 equivalent. During credit negotiations, agreement was reached
on the terms of reference for the study and that proposais to implement
its principal recommendations will be discussed wîth the Association, and
a timetable agreed upon.
E.  Cost Estimates and Financing
4.10      Project costs (Table 6), summarized below, are based on detailed
engineering plans and estimates for the road works, and are considered
realistic:



- 13 -
CFAF (Millions)        US$ (Thousands)       Z of
foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  exchange
(a) Road construction
and supervision          74      145    219      267    522    789        66
(b)  Maintenance equipment
and vehicles             -       278    278       -   1,000  1,000       100
(c)  Road improvement and
Maintenance study         12      56      68      45    200    245        81
(d)  Contingencies             19      96    115       70    344    414        83
Total project cost      105      575    680      382  2,066  2,448
Rounded                                          400  2,100  2,500        84
4.11      The Government's share of road construction and supervision costs,
estimated at CFAF 74 million, represents the tax and local currency com-
ponent. The tax component is estimated at about 20% of road construction
costs. During negotiations, the Goverument confirmed that local currency
as necessary to carry out the project will be made available. A price
escalation allowance of about 10% has been provided to cover cost increases
between appraisal and the completion of road construction. An additional
10% contingency is for unforeseen physical overruns in work quantities. The
estimate of the cost of construction supervision includes services provided
by LBTP which will be entrusted with the key aspects of supervision concern-
ing soils and materials testing; it is based on a proposal prepared by LBTP.
The foreign exchange component will cover actual foreign costs incurred by
LBTP for supervision such as the cost of foreign experts required for the
work. The supervision cost estimate is realistic.
4.12      Disbursements will be made on the following basis:
(a) 66% of expenditures on the feeder road construction con-
tract work, which represents the estimated foreign exchange
component thereof (for supervision, see (b) below);
(b) actual foreign exchange expenditures as defined in the
construction supervision agreement with the PWD's LBTP;
(c) 100% of the CIF price of maintenance equipment, which
equals its foreign exchange cost; and
(d) actual foreign exchange expenditures as defined in the
consultants' contract.



- 14 -
4.13      Any surplus remaining in the Credit account upon completion of
the project would be cancelled. Assuming credit effectiveness in Fall 1970,
IDA disbursements will be as follows:
IDA Fiscal Year
1970/71     1971/72      Total
Forecast IDA disbursements
(US$ millions)                        1.0         1.1        .2.1
F. Execution
(i) Construction of Feeder Roads
4.14      The PWD vill be responsible for the execution of the feeder road
works. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that construction
will be carried out by a prequalified contractor under a unit price con-
tract to be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. The contractor prequalif-
ication process is now underway; this should allow a contract to be awarded
in Fall 1970.  The work is expected to be completed in one year.
4.15      Construction will be supervised by the PWD wîth the assistance of
LBTP which will be responsible for materials testing. The LBTP is operated
by a well-known French testing and research institute, the Centre Experi-
mental de Recherches et d'Etudes du Batiment et des Travaux Publics (CEBTP),
under a management contract. They receive no external financial assistance;
all costs are borne by the Government, including all expatriate staff salar-
ies and allowances. The LBTP has sufficient experienced staff directing
qualified local technicians in a modern, well-equipped laboratory; it has
adequately discharged supervision responsibilities on road works of greater
complexity than the feeder roads, financed by external aid (FED, FAC and
KfW). The Government has confirmed that adequate rîght-of-way will be
available for construction to begin as scheduled. The proposed construc-
tion supervision arrangements are satisfactory, and were confirmed by the
Government during negotiations. However, the realization of the expected
reduction in construction cost estimates by 25% is strongly dependent on
how well the revised design standards are applied and this requires close
supervision. During negotiations, the Government agreed zhat an experienced
engineer will be appointed as resident engineer and that he will be instructed
to review the design before construction to insure that earthworks are held
to a reasonable minimum.
(ii) Purchase of Road Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles
4.16      Equipment and vehicles will be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with IDA requirements through
separate contracts for each type or each group of similar types of equipment.
The contracts will provide for delivery of the equipment in 1971. Equipment
suppliers will be required to provide an adequate servicing organization in-
cluding a supply of spare parts, and the periodic inspection of important



- 15 -
equipment operating in the field. The contracts will be awarded on the
basis of the lowest evaluated bids in terms of purchase prices for equipment
and spare parts, also considering the advantages due to standardization.
Schedules of equipment and vehicles to be purchased, and bidding documents,
will be drawn up as part of the road improvement and maintenance study in
cooperation with the PWD within three months of the study contract effective
date, and will be submitted to IDA for review to assure that they conform
with its procedures. These arrangements are satisfactory and were confirmed
by the Government during negotiations.
(iii) Road Improvement and Maintenance Study
4.17      The study will be executed by consultants, under terms of refer-
ence satisfactory to the Association. The selection of consultants and
signature of the consultants' contract, after review and approval by the
Association, is a condition for effectiveness of the credit. The study
will be completed in about nine months.
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Feeder Roads
5.01      The four project roads form part of the feeder road network of
Sine Saloum region in central Senegal also known as the "Groundnut Basin"
(Map 2). The soils in the region are generally sandy but there are also
some rich alluvial soils in the basins of the Saloum and Gambia Rivers
which cross the region from east to west. Average annual precipitation
varies from 700 mm to 1,000 mm with sharply defined wet and dry seasons.
These characteristics make the region well suited for the cultivation of
groundnuts.
5.02      During 1965/66, which was a good year for groundnuts, 530,000
tons were produced in the region out of a country total of 1,168,000 tons.
During 1966/67 and 1967/68, yields were about 20-25% lower due to the pre-
valance of drought conditions, but production in Sine Saloum declined
only slightly as the region is much less affected by periodic droughts,
and its groundnut growing areas have been increasing at a faster rate
than the country average. Between 1960/61 and 1966/67, groundnut produc-
tion in Sine Saloum increased at 4.2% per annum, whereas for the rest of
the country it was declining at 1.8%. Groundnuts represent about one-
half of the total agricultural production of the region in tons. Small
amounts of rice and cotton are also grown, but most of the remainder is
accounted for by millet and cassava, mainly for subaistence. The region
also produces about 50,000 tons of charcoal which is mostly marketed in
Dakar.
5.03      Between 80-90% of present traffic on the feeder road network
represents groundnuts and inputs to production such as fertilizers, insec-
ticides and seeds. The condition of the feeder road network is generally
poor, and the individual roade are mostly unmaintained tracks on which not



- 16 -
even minïmal improvements have been performed. Depending on local soîl
conditions, effective speeds can be as high as 50 km/h for passenger cars,
and 35 km/h for medium trucks, but there are many sections of the network
on which even under dry conditions effective speeds do riot exceed 20-25
km/h for passenger cars and between 10-15 km/h for trucks. These tracks
are so bad that the largest truck used on .htm is the 6.7-ton Berliet
truck. During the wet season the roads are virtually impassable: consumer
goods, farm tools and other commodities cannot be transported to outlying
villages; passenger traffic is almost nil. The work of agricultural exten-
sion service personnel and of Government officials is hampered.  Vehicle
operating costs on most of the feeder road network are high, and in some
cases reach USe37 per vehicle km for the 6.7-ton truck compared to US¢23
on improved earth roads, US¢l7 on gravel roads, and US¢15 for asphalt roads
(Table 7).
5.04      During the Second Four-Year Plan period (1965/66-1968/69), the
Government took steps to increase groundnut production to reach about 1.2
million tons by 1972/73. The Bank Group is currently providing financial
assistance for this expansion (Loan 584-SE/Credit 140-SE, February 10, 1969)
in an amount of US$9.5 million. Within the framework of its Thiird Four-
Year Plan period (FY 1969/70-1972/73), the Government of Senegal has decided
not to encourage the expansion of groundnut production above the 1.2 million
ton target defined in the Second Plan. A long-term crop diversification
policy has therefore been adopted. The principal crops which will be fa-
vored are rice, sugar, cotton and vegetables. On the whole, the Sine Saloum
region will be little affected by the long-term diversification effort,
and it is expected that groundnuts will remain the principal crop since Sine
Salou1 enjoys a comparative advantage for growing this crop. It is there-
fore expected that groundnut production in Sine Salotux will continue to grow
while other regions will be directly affected by the long-term diversification
policy.
5.05      The four road sections included in the project are among the
most highly trafficked in the feeder road network and their condition is
particularly poor. According to estimates prepared by consultants and
various agricultural organizations, the marketed agricultural produce
that was transported on the project roads in 1966/67 consisted of 50,000
tons of groundnuts, 4,000 tons of cotton and 8,000 tons of charcoal.
There vas also return cargo consisting of fertilizer, pesticides and
consumer goods estimated at about 15% of the agriculturaJl. produce coniing
out of the zones of influence, and passenger traffic corresponding to
about 15% of merchandise traffic in equivalent vehicles (Table 8). The
project roads are in areas which will be among the principal benefici-
aries of the groundnut expansion program. In addition, in the areas
served by two of the four project roads cotton production i expected to
grow fairly rapidly.
5,06      Based on these program forecasts, it is expected that goods
traffic on the project roads wîll increase at about 7% per annum until
1972/73. Thereafter, a 3% growth is considered reasonable, based on eco-
nomic and demographic development trends in Senegal. The direct benefits
associated with the project roads consist of:



- 17 -
(a) reduced vehicle operating costs;
(b) generated traffic, particularly that made possible
during the rainy season; and
(c)  shift from the present 6.7-ton to 10-ton capacity
trucks as a result of the road improvement.
Based on an economic life of 15 years, these benefits yield rates of return
ranging from 10-15% for the individual roads.
5.07      The present project does not include the upgrading of the remain-
ing 400 km of feeder roads in the Sine Saloum region, most of which also
need improvement although to a considerably lesser extent. One of the
principal objectives of the road improvement and maintenance study that
forms part of the project will be to focus on these roads in order to de-
fine various levels of improvement, to evaluate their applicability to
individual road sections, and to make recommendations concerning the most
appropriate means of execution. The rates of return for such improvements
are likely to be high, probably in the order of 15-20%.
B. Maintenance Equipment
5.08      The deficien.ies of the maintenance operations of the PWD and
the inadequacies of existing equipment have been discussed in paras. 3.08-
3.12. The precise justification of the equipment included in the present
project depends on the determination of an overall maintenance program
for the total highway system, from which optimum equipment needs would be
derived. New equipment would be purchased as necessary to bring the ex-
isting fleet of operational, salvageable units up to proper size in each
category. Following an analysis of the most urgent needs by the consul-
tants for the road improvement and maintenance study, an equipment purchase
list will be prepared. For the Third Four-Year Plan period beginning in
1969, the Government has allocated US$2.0 million equivalent for mainte-
nance equipment purchases. The amount included in the project for equip-
ment purchases is US$1.0 million, which is considered a reasonable
approximation of the most urgent needs.
5.09      A typical equipment combination for improvement work would con-
sist of one self-propelled compactor, one tanker, two graders, one bull-
dozer, one shovel loader and four trucks with an estimated total cost of
US$220,000. Such a unit could carry out improvement of about 120 km of
feeder roads annually. Based on total improvement costs and on direct
benefits in vehicle operating costs (Table 7), and for an economic life of
eight years for the equipment, the calculated rate of return on the equip-
ment is between 15-20% for a feeder road with average daily traffic of ten
equivalent vehicles.
5.10      It is possible to carry out sucli an analysis for more heavily
trafficked roads, different types of improvement and maintenance work and



- 18 -
various appropriate equipment arrays. With heavier traffic, rates of re-
turn would be higher. The rate of return on the US$1.0 million investment
in equipment included in this project would exceed 15%. This equipment
can most profitably be used in improvement of feeder roads in groundnut
areas and on routine or deferred maintenance of secondary roads.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The following are the major matters discussed and agreed upon
during credit negotiations:
(a) The road improvement and maintenance study will be based
on terms of reference agreed upon by the Government and
the Association. Proposals to implement the principal
recommendations of the study wll be discussed with the
Association and a timetable for implementation agreed upon
(paras. 4.09 and 4.17);
(b) The Central Soils Laboratory (LBTP) will be entrusted
with the key aspects of road construction supervision
under arrangements agreed between the Association and
the Government (para. 4.15);
(c) An experienced engineer will be appointed as resident
engineer and will be instructed to review the design
before construction to insure that all earthworks are
held to a reasonable minimum (para. 4.15); and
(d) The schedules of equipment and vehicles to be procured
will be drawn up by the consultants for the road main-
tenance study in cooperation with the Directorate of
Public Works within 3 months of the contract effective
date, and vill be agreed by the Association (para. 4.16).
6.02      The selection of the consultants and signature of their contract
is a condition for effectiveness of the credit (para. 4.17).
6.03      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
in the amount of US$2.1 million equivalent.
June 1, 1970



TABLE 1
SENEGAL
HIGI4AY PROJECT
LenRth and Classification of National Roade
(km)
Year         Paved          Gravel          Earth          Total
1962           951          1,500          5,500           7,951
1964l        1,528          1,L,71          5,520          8,519
1966         1,9019         1,B47           5,100          8,851
1968         2,035          1,8640          5,116          8,991
Above roads are maintained by the Directorate of Public Works.
Source: Public Works Directorate
August 18, 1969



TABLE 2
SENEGAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures and Sources of Funds for Highways - 1963-1969
(in CFAF millions)
Exenitures                  _                Sources of Funds
Fiscal   Adminis- Mainte- Construc-                       Local           Forei'n
Year     tration  nance   tion 1/    Total          Budget   Road Fund2/ Aid 17
1962/63    859      734      2,894    4,487         1,593       652       2,242
1963/64    525      734     4,o73    5,732          1,659       650       3,423
1964/65    897      800       650    2,347          1,697       650
1965/66    834      761       650    2,2L5          1,595      650
1966/67    834      640       650    2,124          1,47h       650
1967/68    834      640       65o    2,124          1,474       650
1968/69    834      835       607    2,276          1,479      65o          147
Total    6,017    5,IU    1u,174   21,335         10,971    4,552        5,812
l/  Comnitments including construction, supervision and studies.
Actual outlays lag 2-3 years.
2/ Ninistry's capital budget. Originally revenues were from earmarked taxes.
Since 1963/64 the earmarking has been abolished.
Source:  Public Works Directorate.
August 18, 1969



TABLE 3
SENEGAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet
Annual rate
of growth
Type of Vehicle           1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968         1963-1968
Passenger Cars           23,286  24,973  26,802  28,142  29,789  32,580            7%
Buses                     2,167   2,257   2,376   2,395   2,393   2,413            2%
Vans and Trucks          13,825  14,421  15,107  15,647  16,084  16,849            4%
Special Purpose Trucks      573      604     637      635     653      672         3%
Tractor-trailer
Combinations                295      353     364      378    _412      452         2%
Total                     40,146  42,608  45,286  47,197  49,331  52,966           5.5%
Note:  Figures are somnewhat overstated due to unreliable reporting of vehicles
retired from service.
Source: Statistical Directorate
August 18, 1969



TOIE 4
SENEGAL
HIGQi-eAY PROJECT
Road Vehicle Fuel Consumption
Year             Gasoline                 Diesel              Total
(v-)                   (m7P
1959              74,674                  1O,352              85,026
1960              8o,JL3                   9,296              89,439
1961              79,689                   9,785              89,4714
1962              80,938                  10,255              91,193
1963              83,803                  11,31û              95,121
196X              82,537                  10,613              93,150
1965              83,126                  10,566              93,692
1966              83,.181b                10,636              93,820
1967              83,272                  114e509             97,781
Annual
Rate of
Gro,ith
1959/67             1.2%                    h4.3%               1.8%
Source: Transport Directorate
Avgust 18, 196S



TABLE 5
SENEGAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
Feeder Roads
Proposed by          Proposed by
Government              IDA
Design Speed                               60 km/h             60 km/h
Maximum Grade                               6%                  6%
Minimum Curve Radius                       60 m                60 m
Width of Formation                          7 m                 6 m
Width of Traveled Way                     5.5 m                 6 m
Surface                               Laterite or           Laterite or
select material      select material
Base Thickness                             15 cm               12 cm
Source: Public Works Directorate
October 8, 1969



TABLE 6
SENEAL
HIGIIJAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
% of
US ? ' 000 eluivalent     Foreign
Local    Foreign  Total    Exchanea
1. Construction & Supervision
(i) Construction of 78 krm
of feeder roads                   256        506      762        66
(ii)  Supervision by PJD                  il        16       27        58
Sub Total                      267        522     789         66
2. Road Maintenance Eqguipment
and Vehicles                             -      1,000   1,000        100
3. Road Improvement and
Maintenance Study                        45       200      245         81
4. Contingencies
(i)  Quantities (about 10')             35        172      207        83
(ii)  Price (about 10i)                   35       172     207         83
Sub Total                       70        344     414        83
Grand Total                    382      2,066   2,448
Say,           400     2,f100   2,500        84
Source: Mission estimatee
June 1, 1970



TABLE 7
SENEGAL
HICHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle OperaLt4g Costa for a 6.7-Ton Truok
(in UWe/vehicle km)
Asphalt   Gravel    Improved    Unimproved
?oad      Road     Earth Road   Earth Trail
Fuel                             0,99      1.24        1.48          2.24
Oil                             0.14       0.16        0.23          0.80
Maintenance Materials            1.26      1.79         2.64         3.20
Maintenance Labor                0.51      0.71        1.07          1.42
Servicing                       0.30       0.37        0.36          0.71
Tires                            2.00      1.92        2.38          5.00
Fixed charges 1/                 7.80      9.07       12.91         20.24
Overheads                        i.60      1.78        1.96          3.69
Total                      1h.6o     17.O04      23.03         37.25
1/ Consisting of depreciation, irterest, drivers' wages and insurance.
Source: ORATEC, and mission estimates
October 8, 1969



TABLE 8
SUJ AL
HMARWT PROJECT
Cou t/BEefit iaaue
Maleme-Hodar          Kaffrine       Sokone              Koungheul
Delbi _             K*tekiel      Diaye-Die            Lour
Investment cost in TE$ y/                                          139,300              142,300        139,600             216,800
Km length                                                          17                   19             16                  26
Irm estment cost/km in Us$                                           8.200                7.500  _ _8,700_8,0
1967 trWffic Orouncdnuts                                            15,000               12ss5a           9,000             13,600
in tons      Return cargo 10%                                       1,500                1,250            900               1,360
Charcoal                                               2,000               2,000          2,000               2,000
Cotton                                                                       50           1,500                 -
Total                                                               18,0                 16,250         13i,h00             16,,960
1971 traffic  Groundnuts 2/                                         18,000               15,000         10,800              16,320
in tons      Return cargo 20% j/                                    3,600                3,000          2,160               3,26h
Charcoal                                               2,000               2,000          2,00n               2,(00
Cotton /                                                 -                 3000           4,000                 -
Total                                                                23.600              23,000         18,960              21,594
Equivalent 6.7 ton ADT I/                                            16.2                16.4           13.0                14.8
Passenger traffic 10% of aboae 6/                                     1.6                 1.6            1.                  1.5
Total opening year traffic                                           17-8  1,.0                         14.3                16.3
Effective operating speeds (kmWh) light vehiclea                      30                  35             25                  20
il       ri      tt             6.7 truck                        22                   26             18                 15
Savings per vehicle-km US centa                                       15                  13             17                  19
% of reduction in operating costs                                 15 ' 32              13 - 30        17 - 314          19 -^- 37
(4<%)               (430           (5n%)              (53%)
Induced traffic elasticity 0.67                                    31.5%                28.8%          33.3%             35.5%
1nduced traffic ADT                                                 5.6                  5.2            4.8                5.8
Total ooening year traffic                                         23.4                 23.2           18.8              22.1
Daily benefit in TS$ (opening year)                                 3.09                 2.68           2.8j               3.65
Onening year benefit US$                                              1,128                 978          1,037               1,332
Shift to l-ton truck (60% of trsffic)                                  118                 120             9<                 108
Additional maintenance costs                                      (-)  100             (-)  100       (-)  150           (- P ?00
lie  vear total benefit                                               1 146                 998            982        _         1?2
Rite of  return                                                       1415~                              10% 16
2   Includes supervisiona and oontinginciee, but excludles
taxes.
2/  1967 quantitisa plus 20% in accordance vith ground-
nut expansion achein.
j/  20% of groundnut ame cotton traff c  ainlJy ferti-
lizers and ineecticides.
4/  Source - From Compagnie Franeine pour le Developpe-
ment des Textilee.
5/ Based on 60% load factor.
Ï/  In 6.7 ton equivalents, actual nisers are twice the
stated nazibers.
October 8, 1969



SENEGAL: HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
ACCOUNTING                                    CABINET                                 ADMINISTRATION
DIRECTOR
DIRECTOR           |                                  OF PUBLIC WORKS                                                DIRECTOR
OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                        ODEPUTY DIRECTOR                                           0F TRANSPORTATION
Divisions:                                                                                                          Divisions:
Cap Vert                                                                                                            Rood Transport
Other Regions                                                                                                       Air Transport
Merchcint Marine
r    TOPGRAPHY          CCHIEF ENGINEER                   EQIJMENT                  S.O.M. DAKAR      |    S.O.M. RICHARD-TOLL
SERVICE                    DESIGN                      INSPECTOR            aWORKSHOP a STORES           WORKSHOP a STORES
DIVISION: CASAMANCE      DIVISION: SINE-SALOUM      EASTERN SENEGAL          DIVISION: CAP VERT         DIVISION: FLEUVE          DIVISION: DIOURBEL          DIVISION: THIES
SUB-DIVISIONS:           SUB-DIVISIONS:            SUB-DIVISIONS:         SUB-DIVISIONS:               SUB-DIVISIONS:            SUB-DIVISIONS:             SUB-DIVISIONS:
Ziguinchor               Kaolack                   Tombocoundo            Dusign                       St. Louis                 Diourbel                  Roods
31gniono                 fotick                    Bokel                  Londscaping                  iagona                    Lougo                     Buildings
Koldo                    Gossos                    Kédougou               Rood Construction            Motom                     Linguère
Sedhiou                  Kof f rl ne                                      Rood Mointunoince            podor
Velingors                                                                 Building Construction
Building Maintenonce
June 1969                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD-4452 |






SENEGAL
j   ~ ~ ~~---'.~~~~~                                                          HIGHWAY  PROJECT
A C` ,''A I                                                                                 v                                          _MAIN  ROAD  NETWORK
Ne(L  g j ,W, y /  f f lJ[ _ 1c.11chad 5                                                                               Paved-  roads   u   nder construction
)-  l                          - - -  Larth roadi
_,,                  sr ~~~~~ ~ ~~LOUtSK    1*-5Q.                                                                                                      ere
~~~. LOUIS 'r'    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~**.                                                         r~~~~~i-e naigation
ioder the p rjo t
.M  r.\u OurofsoÀ   © M      Internatlnnal airport
''    j            <4      Local airparts
PORTUGUEUS4EE MAP 2                                                                                                                   k16
FOR FEDER OADINTWOR
S    Il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
le-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TR-67






SENEGAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
SINE SALOUM' FEEDER ROAD NETWORK & PROJECT ROADS
/     «0___cGouanê               NdiO    -  ---Â         Toubra           \          f                  -                    -
\Kh om bof.ke                                  Mb~~~~          io \ bcké                                                                                                          PAVED ROADS
Oongafmof     Boffbey                    f         Kael                        *                                                                                                             GRAVEL ROADS
)    D rJ n g r/ns o    \   KCJel>COlOÙ; e   s   /                                         \         J                --~~----  EARTH ROADS OR TRACKS
DIGURBE 
j 0o / 0 DIOURBEL/ \ 55s,a  \  /   /   n        f                                                                                                         f                            -  I      RAILROADS
f;,0`       -\Fissel  J               P<  v  "  \   dsbrJr   /EEDER ROADS TO RE  CONSTRUJCTED
Fîmei~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                   -                                                                                    UNDRR THE PROJECT
f      f ::    X    S   s°,FEEDER ROADS To BE IM/PROVFD
"U                       BY~~~~~R  MAINTENANCE
f0
Diobé»                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
| 1C  b   tNI         Frr                     KALC                                                                      Moo,- *olAo      >     /                                fai             MilW f é   =7 KOtOd /
diougne                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ouok  À * .  *  *  )/Wock \ \l > /   Ouof O ok
AQ'f       1                                                                                                                      M r  ale. \  -No'  e uxbKountoucta   \<  \    .-   f
IK \__z Koutongotf o'                  /                                       \ /, / G A M B   I     A      < -  ) rPaté angcye  fKiu
Ma.diab,ef  ' Nl-- 
D'ay    .            Wock bNdni                           '      '1~  \
'Ni-UduGRUSTIl                                                                                                              1969IB
fi                   J-                                                                                                                  .            ,1  
AUGONT 1969                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IFRO - 2638



