CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 198 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 198 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1970 between REPUBLIC
OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATIoN (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Associatioi being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to two million one hundred
thousand dollars ($2,100,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.


﻿4
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or
by further agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services included
in Categories II, III and IV of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of sixty-six percent (66%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category I of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment, which percentage represents the estimated
foreign exchange component of the cost of such
goods or services;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for goods or services included
in Category I, the Association may by notice to the Bor-
rower adjust the stated percentage applicable to such Cate-
gory as required in order that withdrawals of the amount
of the Credit then allocated to such Category and not with-
drawn may continue pro rota with the payments remaining
to be made for goods or services included in such Category.


﻿5
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of payments (i) for goods pro-
duced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the
Borrower except under Category I of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement, or (ii) for taxes imposed by the Borrower
or any of its political subdivisions on, or in connection
with the importation or supply of, goods or services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the Republic of France
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and
September 1 commencing September 1, 1980 and ending
March 1, 2020, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on March 1, 1990 to be one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half percent (1 %) of such
principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this
Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿6
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods
and services shall be subject to the prior approval of the
Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
roads referred to in Part A of the Project shall be con-
structed by contractors acceptable to the Association and
the Borrower, employed under contracts satisfactory to the
Association and the Borrower.
(c) In the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants and experts acceptable to, and to
an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to,
the Association:
(i) to review the designs of the roads included in Part A
of the Project;


﻿7
(ii) to supervise the construction of the roads included
in Part A of the Project; and
(iii) to carry out the study included in Part C of the
Project.
(d) The general design standards to be used for the roads
included in the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, as such standards shall be modified from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, contract documents and work schedules
for the Project and any material modifications subsequently
made therein, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(f) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not
later than three months after the employment of the con-
sultants pursuant to paragraph (c) (iii) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall submit to the Asso-
ciation for approval a list of the equipment and vehicles
to be procured under Part B of the Project.
(g) Upon the completion of the study included in Part C
of the Project, the Borrower and the Association shall
agree upon (i) the implementation, by the Borrower, of
such study's principal recommendations, and (ii) a time-
table for such implementation.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall (i) cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, and to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) ; (ii) enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to inspect the Project, such goods
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) cause
to be furnished to the Association all such inf9rmation as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the


﻿8
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project,
such goods and services, and the operations, administra-
tion and financial condition of the agency or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project
or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the Bor-
rower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make other arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and deliv-
ery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.


﻿9
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall establish and maintain
facilities adequate to collect and record, in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures, such infor-
mation concerning road traffic, road construction and road
maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required for
proper planning of maintenance, improvements and exten-
sions of its public roads system.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall cause its road system
to be adequately maintained and shall cause all. necessary
repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with sound
engineering practices, and shall provide, as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the foregoing.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall take all measures rea-
sonably required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-
loads of vehicles using its road network shall not exceed
limits consistent with the design standards of such roads.
SECTION 4.08. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,. imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.09. This Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
on or in connection with the execution, delivery or regis-
tration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent


﻿10
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at
its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
The Borrower shall have employed the consultants
to carry out the study included in Part C of the Project,
as required by the provisions of Section 4.01 (c) (iii)
of this Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The date of October 1, 1970 is hereby spec-
ified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06 and 4.07 of this Agree-
ment shall terminate on the date on which this Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years
after the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1972
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.


﻿11
SECTIoN 7.02. The Minister of Finance and Economic
Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
SECTiON 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et des Affaires Economiques
B. P. 4017
Rue Charles Laine
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:
Minifinances
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ CHEIKH IBRAHIMA FALL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                           in Dollar Equivalent
I. Construction of feeder roads             500,000
II. Supervision of road construction          20,000
III. Imported road maintenance equipment,
vehicles and spare parts              1,000,000
IV. Consultants' services for carrying
out Part C of the Project               200,000
V. Unallocated                               380,000
2,100,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category V.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Cate-
gory I an amount equal to 66% of such increase) will
be allocated by the Association, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from Category V, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as deter-
mined by the Association, in respect of the cost of the
items in the other Categories.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of :
Part A. The construction and supervision of construction
of four sections of feeder roads as follows:
Approximate
Road Section                              Length in Km
Koungheul-Lour                               26
Maleme Hodar-Delbi                           17
Kaffrine-Katakiel                            19
Sokone--Diaye-Diaye                          16
Part B. The procurement of road maintenance equipment
and vehicles.
Part 0. The carrying out of a road improvement and
maintenance study.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1971.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Supplementary Procurement Procedures
A. Contracts for the Construction of Feeder Roads.
1. Prequalification of bidders as described in paragraph
1.3 of the Guidelines referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement shall be used for bidding on all feeder road
construction works under Category I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and at least 45 days shall be allowed for sub-
mission of prequalification documents.
2. Foreign contractors shall not be required to register
in Senegal as a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the
event that registration shall be necessary after a foreign
contractor has been awarded a contract, the Borrower shall
facilitate the registration.
3. Each contract shall include:
(a) an obligation to provide a performance bond in the
amount of 100% of the contract price or a bank
guarantee in an amount not less than 10% of such
price; and
(b) a provision for (i) the retention of 10%  of the
amounts payable under each of the contractor's
monthly invoices, the aggregate total of such reten-
tions not to exceed 5%  of the contract price, or
(ii) a bank guarantee in the amount of 5% of the
contract price, such retention or such guarantee to
remain in effect until final reception of the works.
4. The following documents shall be submitted to the
Association for approval:
(a) prior to advertisement:
prequalification documents and advertising coverage.
(b) prior to invitation of bids:


﻿16
(i) evaluation of completed prequalification docu-
ments and proposed list of prequalified con-
tractors; and
(ii) bidding and contracting documents.
(c) prior to contract award:
(i) abstract and evaluation of bids received; and
(ii) recommendation for award.
5. As soon as a contract has been signed, a copy thereof
shall be sent to the Association promptly after execution
of any such contract and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal in re-
spect of such contract.
B. Contracts for the Procurement of Road Maintenance
Equipment and Vehicles.
Road maintenance equipment and vehicles under Cate-
gory III of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be procured
as follows:
1. Identical or similar goods shall be grouped together
whenever practicable for the purpose of bidding and pro-
curement.
2. Bidding documents shall state that the suppliers of
equipment shall provide adequate servicing facilities and
shall maintain up-to-date inventories of spare parts in the
territories of the Borrower.
3. The time interval between the invitation to bid and
the opening of the bids shall be not less than 60 days.
4. The following documents shall be submitted to the
Association for approval:
(a) prior to invitation of bids:


﻿17
(i) proposals for advertising coverage, specifica-
tions of goods and grouping of goods; and
(ii) bidding and contracting documents.
(b) prior to contract award:
(i) abstract and evaluation of bids received; and
(ii) recommendation for award.
5. As soon as a contract has been signed, two copies
thereof shall be sent to the Association promptly after
execution of any such contract and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal in
respect of such contract.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Design Speed                          60 km/h
Maximum Grade                          6 %
Minimum Curves Radius                 60 m
Width of Formation                     6 m
Width of Surfacing                     6 m
Thickness of Surfacing
after Compaction                    12 cm


