 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14818

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 10/09/2015

               Country: Laos
             Project ID: P090693                                                    Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Lao Environment And          Project Costs (US$M):                     7.80                  7.86
                         Social Project                                         includes Additional
                                                                                         Financing
  L/C Number:              CH177                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                     7.00                  7.00
                                                                                includes Additional
                                                                                         Financing
      Sector Board:        Environment                Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  06/30/2005
                                                                Closing Date:           12/31/2010            06/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Central government administration (48%); Forestry (25%); Other social services (11%);
                           Sub-national government administration (9%); General education sector (7%)
          Theme(s):        Environmental policies and institutions (33% - P); Water resource management (17% - S);
                           Biodiversity (17% - S); Other social development (17% - S); Participation and civic
                           engagement (16% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Vibecke Dixon              Ridley Nelson           Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The objective of the project, as stated in the Legal Agreement (p 18, Schedule 2 Description of Project, first para),
was to "assist the Recipient to strengthen the management of environmental and social issues associated with the
sustainable use of natural resources in Lao PDR for enhancing quality of growth and reducing poverty".

The PDO was formally revised in 2010 during a Board approved (level-one) restructuring which also included an
extension of the closing date and approval of additional financing. The PDO became: "to strengthen the management
of environmental and social issues associated with the sustainable use of natural resources in Lao PDR." (ICR p vi,
first para, p 3 section 1.3 first para). The last part of the original PDO "...for enhancing quality growth and reducing
poverty" was removed.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 01/12/2010

 c. Components:
 There are some inconsistencies in the ICR regarding project costs per component. The Appraisal figures presented
on p 4 in the ICR are consistent with the Appraisal figures presented in the PAD (p 4 and Annex 5 p 37). These figures
reflect the full project costs, including the estimated recipient's contribution. However, in Tables 1 and 2 in the ICR's
Annex 1, p 27, the figures presented per component exclude the recipient's contribution, both for the Appraisal
estimate and for the Actual costs. The ICR does not provide information about what the total costs per component
(including recipient's contribution) were. The project team has informed IEG that this is due to the fact that the
recipient's contribution was in-kind only (staff time, etc), and therefore difficult to estimate per component. Thus, the
figures presented as "Actual costs" in the following reflect the Bank contribution only.

The project had three components (ICR pp 3-4, PAD p 4):

Original components :

Component 1: Policy Implementation and Capacity Enhancement (PICE)( Appraisal: US$ 1.91 million; Additional
Financing: US$ 2.05 million; Actual (Note: Excluding recipient's contribution): US$ 3.43 million) was to strengthen
capacity for environmental and social policy formulation and implementation through demand-driven capacity
sub-grants at the national, provincial and district levels. The description of the different eligible themes through which
the sub-grants were to be given differs in the PAD and in the ICR. The PAD (p.4) provides the following list:

(i) environmental and social safeguards policy formulation and implementation;
(ii) environmental assessment, and monitoring, and compliance of institutions engaged in environmental
management;
(iii) integrated river basin management;
(iv) hydropower sector sustainability;
(v) resettlement management; and
(vi) environmental education and awareness;

while the ICR (p 4) states that the five PICE sub-windows were:
A1) Environment and Social Monitoring and Policy Implementation Support;
A2) Integrated River Basin Management;
A3) Hydropower Sector Policy Support;
A4) Social Safeguards Management; and
A5) Environmental Education and Awareness.

The PAD lists six eligible themes, while the ICR lists five. Three of the eligible themes have identical or similar
phrasing, while it is unclear how the remaining three themes changed and merged into the remaining two themes in
the ICR. No explanation is given in the ICR for the discrepancies in the descriptions of this component between the
two documents. It would have been helpful if the ICR had recognized these changes and had provided an explanation.


Component 2: Community and Biodiversity Investment (CBI) (Appraisal: US$ 1.74 million; Additional Financing: US$
0.6 million; Actual (Note: Excluding recipient's contribution): US$ 2.18 million) used demand-driven sub-grants to
strengthen conservation practices and livelihood improvements in and around protected areas and to improve
localized environmental conditions through partnership arrangements involving communities, local governments, and
civil society organizations in three central Lao provinces through two CBI sub-windows (the sub-windows were not
mentioned in the PAD):
B1)Protected Area Management
B2) Community Investment

Component 3: Management and Monitoring Support (MMS) (Appraisal: US$ 1.15 million; Additional Financing: US$
0.35 million; Actual (Note: Excluding recipient's contribution: US$ 1.43 million) was to support the day-to-day
operation of the Environment Protection Office (EPF), specifically PICE and CBI windows, through three
sub-components:

C1) Capacity building of EPF windows through the establishment of a Window Management Unit (WMU) responsible
for implementing the PICE and CBI windows;
C2) Marketing and Business Development of EPF's sub-grants; and
C3) Guidance, Evaluation and Monitoring.

The component was intended to support the project's compliance with agreed fiduciary and safeguard requirements
and ensure effective collaboration among governmental agencies, relevant projects, development partners and other
stakeholders.

The PAD states (p 4) that the sub-grants were to finance activities submitted by national, provincial and district
government agencies and other eligible beneficiaries including communities, community groups, mass organizations
or civil society organizations. The type of activities would include capacity building grants for Component 1 which
would include studies, surveys, workshops, training, preparation of technical guidelines, monitoring and assessment
of environmental conditions, etc.

Revised components:
The components were revised in the restructuring of the project and a number of changes were made in the activities:

A1) Continued support to build capacities of national and targeted provincial agencies to develop, implement and
monitor environment and social safeguard policies;
A2) Continued support to establish framework for Nam Theun-Nam Kading (NT- NKD) River Basin Committee;
A3) Discontinued under this project and was funded from a stand-alone project (TA for Capacity Building in
Hydropower and Mining Sectors, Grant H5390);
A4) Continued support to capacity building on social assessment and review as well as public outreach and
implementation of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) decree by assisting the establishment of Department of
Environment and Social Impacts Assessment (DESIA); update of the national policy on natural resources and
environment, climate change, and pollution control.
A5) Continued support to generation of public knowledge and awareness but with a specific focus on social
assessment and ethnic consultation through development of social safeguard curricula development at the National
University of Lao PDR and guidelines for ethnic group consultations.

B1) Continued limited support for Provincial Protected Area (PPA) management for updating protected areas
regulations and consultations including implementation of PPA management plans and priorities.
B2) Support for the development of a larger integrated Community Conservation Network (CCN) in the NT-NKD basin.

MMS (Management and Monitoring Support): Reduced portfolio resulting in reduced budget for the WMU technical
role and a focus on sub-grant procurement, supervision and monitoring.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
The original grant was US$ 4 million and the Recipient contribution was estimated to US$ 0.8 million (in-kind only).

On 19/19/2009, the Country Director approved a level-2 restructuring to reallocate funds between disbursement
categories and increase the amount of the Special Account to US$ 0.5 million.

On 01/12/2010, the Board approved a level-1 restructuring of the project including an extension of 30 months (Original
closing date was December 31st, 2010, new closing date was June 30th, 2013). US$ 3 million was allocated in
additional financing, and the PDO was changed (see section 2a for details). The extension was needed to complete
activities under the original project constrained by implementation delays and the additional financing was to scale up
capacity building efforts related to the social impact assessment and integrated river basin management.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original: Substantial
The original objective was in line with national and Bank priorities both at the start-up of the project and at closure.

Revised: Modest
The revised objective set at an output level was only partially relevant at closure. While it was not inconsistent with the
Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) in Lao PDR (2012-16) which includes Bank involvement in natural
resources and environmental management (NRM) especially for hydropower and mining, both the national and Bank
strategies are more outcome oriented. The CAS states on p 20, para 51: that “The CAS has been designed to support
(…) key areas of future growth and improved social outcomes/reductions in vulnerability.”


 b. Relevance of Design:
Original: Modest
The original objective was to “assist the Recipient to strengthen the management of environmental and social issues
associated with the sustainable use of natural resources in Lao PDR for enhancing quality of growth and reducing
poverty”.

The project components and activities (‘Policy Implementation and Capacity Enhancement’ and ‘Community and
Biodiversity Investment’ along with support to project management and M&E) were relevant to achieve the intended
outputs (i.e. strengthened natural resources management). It is, however, somewhat unclear to what degree they
would contribute to achieving the final outcomes of ‘enhanced quality of growth’ and ‘reduced poverty’ because the
logical chain was not specified.
IEG’s interpretation is that the logical chain for the original PDO would be along the lines of the following:

Input: Funds and technical assistance (to strengthen natural resources management)
Output: Strengthened Natural Resources Management
Intermediate Outcomes: (which are not described or mentioned in the PDO), could have been e.g. “reduction in illegal
activities (of extraction of natural resources/human rights violations, etc), better regulation of new and ongoing
activities, better revenue (tax income) from well managed natural resources, improved distribution of surplus from
natural resources, fewer conflicts between ethnic groups (or others) over natural resources, ethnic minority rights
ensured”, etc…) These intermediate outputs could in turn lead to the final outcomes that were expressed in the original
PDO.
Final Outcomes: Enhanced quality of growth and poverty alleviation, especially at community level where sub-project
investments have been made and where new capacity has provided support.

Although the activities and components were relevant to achieve the stated outputs as outlined above, there was a
substantial gap in the logical chain, as no relevant intermediate outcomes were articulated in the PDO. There was an
underlying assumption in the PDO formulation that the output “strengthened management (of natural resources)”
would automatically lead to “enhanced quality of growth and reduced poverty”. How this was to come about and how it
would be measured was not explicitly addressed in the project design.

The Relevance of Design is rated Modest as the statement of objectives is unclear and not linked to intermediate and
final outcomes; the causal chain between funding and outcomes is not clear and convincing, and exogenous factors
and unintended (positive and negative) effects were not identified.

Revised: Modest
With the revised Project Development Objective to "strengthen the management of environmental and social issues
associated with the sustainable use of natural resources in Lao PDR", the higher level of intended outcomes were
removed from the formulation of the objective and was not replaced by any other adequate intermediate or final
outcomes. The bar was substantially lowered. There was still weak formulation of what the result of that strengthening
would lead to. The underlying assumption was that “strengthened management” (the means) was an end in itself. The
problem of the lack of identified suitable outcomes was not addressed.

The logical chain for the Revised PDO would look as follows:

Input: Funds and technical assistance (to strengthen natural resources management)
Output: Strengthened natural resources management.

Following this PDO formulation, one would only need indicators for outputs (to measure the “strength” of the Natural
Resources Management” and would not need to
a) identify intended outcomes like e.g. better regulated/less illegal activities in the extraction of natural resources due
to successful implementation of new policies/strategies/laws; better opportunities/less human rights violations for
ethnic minorities, again due to successful implementation of new policies/strategies/laws;, or; increased revenue from
commercial companies’ natural resources extraction, etc., or
b) measure the development or achievements of any of these potentially relevant (and measurable) outcomes.


The Relevance of Design for the Revised PDO is rated Modest but, as noted, the PDO does not identify a higher level
development objective beyond the intended outputs.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Original: Negligible
The two intended final outcomes in the original design was:
a)       “enhanced quality of growth”; and
b)       “reduced poverty”.

The project documents do not provide any definition or explanation as to what is meant by “enhanced quality of
growth”, whether the intention was to achieve economic growth (for households? for the community? for the local
government?) or how this would be measured. How poverty reduction would be achieved and measured was also not
dealt with in the project documents.

The original intended final outcomes were not achieved prior to restructuring. The project suffered from delayed
implementation and very weak monitoring (ICR p 8). Furthermore, the M&E system was not set up to measure growth
and poverty reduction. There is little evidence in the ICR to show achieved outputs and related outcomes prior to
restructuring. Neither of the two PDO indicators were measured despite the fact that they were both relevant and
measurable (percentage of development projects complying with relevant safeguard policies; and percentage of
prevalence of selected prohibited environmental activities in target provinces).

Efficacy for the achievement of the original objectives is rated Negligible.

Revised: Modest
As noted above, in the restructuring of the project, the bar was lowered, the PDO was revised and the higher level
objective was removed from the formulation of the PDO leaving it only with an objective at output level: “strengthened
management”; The PDO was to "strengthen the management of environmental and social issues associated with the
sustainable use of natural resources in Lao PDR".

The ICR reports that the project achieved its revised objective after restructuring (section 3.2, pp14-17 and Annex 2,
pp 28-44). However, even for the reduced objective the evidence presented in the ICR for strengthened management
is relatively weak. The ICR mostly reports on outputs and a few intermediate outcomes, and the claims of intermediate
outcomes achieved are not backed up by evidence.

Some sections of Annex 2 present a mix of inputs, outputs and outcomes without distinguishing between the different
levels in the logical chain. A substantial part of the efficacy reporting focuses on number of people trained (output),
workshops held (input/output), number and sizes and themes of grants provided (input/output), operational support to
relevant institutions (input), strategies and action plans developed (output), awareness curriculum developed (output),
etc. There is no reporting on the effect of these inputs and outputs, such as changed attitudes or management
practices following the training, the content and impact/results of the grants, the implementation of the strategies and
action plans; with a few exceptions. The ICR asserts achievements such as “the project produced considerable
capacity for environmental and social management issues at central, provincial and local level”; “strengthened
governmental staff capacity (numbers, quality) at central, provincial and district level”; “strengthened education
services and environmental awareness raising” (p28). But there is no evidence presented for these claims. The ICR
states (p 30) that the project’s M&E system and EPF’s subgrant forms did not include dedicated indicators to track
capacity building results. The ICR also reports that the number of people trained is likely to be under-reported as the
project did not receive accurate reporting for the subgrants. The quality of reporting from the subgrants to the project
was poor, and the project did not have much information regarding the content and even less the effect or impact of
the subgrants, according to the project team (meeting with IEG on 06/29/2015).

Although the ICR can document that many people (approximately 4,000) at different levels have received training of
different kinds during the project period, there is no information as to the content and quality of the training, nor has
the potential outcome of the training been measured and reported on.

Similarly, when reporting on the environmental and social monitoring and policy implementation, the ICR focuses on
outputs (p 33): e.g. provincial environmental strategies and action plans were developed; and grievance mechanisms
established. Little is revealed as to what the outcome of these strategies, action plans and mechanisms were in terms
of environmental impact.

However, some of the strategies and action plans were implemented and led to changes in practice. According to the
ICR (p 33 and vii): in 2010, 6 of 8 private hydropower projects in operation were responsive to the national policy by
preparing action plans and implementing agreed mitigation measures contained therein, and the same was true for 1
of 16 private hydropower projects under construction. After 2010, 21 hydropower Concession Agreements were
signed and all have Standard Environment and Social Obligations attached. Having such agreements in place is an
important first step. There is no further information in the ICR as to how compliance with these agreements is being
inspected and followed up.

There are some claims in the ICR that the project achieved its objective of strengthened natural resources
management, e.g. on page 33 under the subheading “- Enhanced provincial capacity” it is stated that staff capacity
was built on improved environmental and social planning and management, and that as a result, “provincial staff and
budget in target provinces increased significantly if compared with the situation prior to the project”. Increased number
of staff and increased budget however, are not indicators of “strengthened management”.

It is possible that this project in fact did strengthen the management of natural resource projects and activities in the
project areas, however, due to the weak monitoring, the ICR has not been able to provide convincing evidence. There
is no discussion of the counterfactual in the ICR.

Efficacy after restructuring is rated Modest.
5. Efficiency:
 The project’s efficiency is rated Modest.

No economic rate of return was estimated at appraisal or completion.

Phase 1 (before restructuring) suffered from delayed effectiveness (ICR p 9). Delays were reported to be due to “lack
of readiness for implementation” (ICR p 9) and delays in staff recruitment (first 10 months and then another 2 years)
hampered implementation considerably. Despite this, the project was restructured; it received additional funding and
the closing date was extended in addition to the PDO revision. Typically, additional financing would be provided for a
project that has proven successful and would be given for expanding or scaling up the success. There is no
information in the ICR to explain the rationale for the additional financing and extension of this project to eight years in
a situation where there was little to show in terms of achievements along with severe implementation delays and weak
reporting.

According to the ICR (p 9), the AF amount and timeframe corresponded adequately to the design changes (i.e. larger,
lesser and pre-identified subgrants) and the restructuring and AF created conditions for faster and better
implementation.

The ICR concludes that the project costs compared to the outputs appear reasonable (p 17, section 3.3) despite the
fact that there is limited information about the outputs and outcomes of the project subgrants, and also despite the
lack of an economic and financial analysis of the project both at appraisal and at closure. The ICR presents some
comparisons with other projects on costs to show comparative efficiency (p 18), but it is not clear how comparable
they are since there is no evidence of comparative benefit streams.

In addition to the substantial implementation delays, the project experienced a high staff turnover which also
contributed to decreased efficiency. Furthermore, operating costs are reported to have been relatively high during the
initial years of the project (i.e. prior to restructuring) due to the high administrative cost of many small subgrants.
However, the ICR reports (p 18) that the annual input costs per volume of transaction decreased over time particularly
after the restructuring as the project then had less transactions with larger volume.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   A split rating has been done of this project (before and after restructuring). US$ 3.19 of the total actual US$ 7.86
had been disbursed at the date of restructuring, i.e. 40.58 percent of the total funds.

The Relevance of Objective is rated Substantial for the original and Modest for the restructured project. The
Relevance of Design is rated Modest for both the original and restructured project as the original project had a
substantial gap in the logical chain (theory of change) with an underlying assumption that strengthened natural
resources management would automatically lead to “enhanced quality of growth and reduced poverty”, and the
restructured PDO lacked a higher level objective altogether, making the output “strengthened management” an end in
itself with no articulated intended objectives at outcome level. Efficacy is rated Negligible for the original project due to
the severe implementation delays and weak monitoring, and Modest for the restructured project due to weak
monitoring and reporting and a focus on inputs and outputs rather than outcomes. Efficiency is rated Modest mainly
due to limited evidence on the projects costs compared to achievements and efficiency weaknesses, implementation
delays, high staff overturn, and high operating costs.
The Outcome Rating is Unsatisfactory
(Relevance=Objectives Modest (Substantial (40)+Modest(60); Design Modest (40)+Modest (60)); Efficacy=Modest
(Original Negligible (40) +Revised Modest(60)); Efficiency=Modest)
 a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory
 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The Risk to Development Outcome is rated Significant because, despite some achievements, the pace of capacity
development of the national and provincial institutions that ensure compliance monitoring is insufficient to keep up
with the pace of development within the transport, plantations, hydropower and mining sectors (ICR page 21). The
institutional risk is also significant since the institutions are facing substantial challenges such as lack of adequately
skilled staff, resources and finances (ICR p 21).

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was prepared in a very short timeframe, and on the positive side it was innovative and based on
sectoral knowledge gained over 10 years of working on the Nam Theun 2 Hydroelectric project (NT2). Despite
this, the Bank overestimated the institutional capacity of the EPF and other stakeholders and as a consequence
the project had limited mitigation measures and was provided limited institutional development support both in
terms of quality and modality in additional to limited operational budget support. Furthermore, the risk was
assessed to be “moderate” which was overly optimistic as a number of risks arose during implementation (ICR p
21-22). Finally, the logical chain in the PDO had a major gap, as previously discussed. The M&E Framework was
inadequate in that some key indicators were missing (no indicators to measure final outcomes – or intermediate
outcomes), some indicators were not very relevant and most focused on project outputs and even inputs. No
baseline was done and many of the indicators lacked targets. The Legal Agreement had an M&E Framework
attached (section 5) that was different from the M&E Framework in the PAD with no explanation or
cross-reference in either document as to how they would relate to-, overlap or substitute for each other. These
suggest hasty project preparations.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    A total of 11 formal review missions, an average of 1.2 per year, were organized as well as a number of
informal visits. The Bank provided advisory services to the EPF during phase 2 to compensate for its lack of
technical capacity.
However, the severe challenges with the M&E design and implementation was never properly dealt with in any of
the supervision missions nor at MTR or at Restructuring. This was a significant shortcoming in the quality of
supervision. The project design, including the PDO was reviewed and restructured late in the process – i.e. only
just before the original project was nearing closure. The revision of the PDO did not solve the problem with the
gap in the logical chain; in some ways it was made worse by removing the higher level objective altogether and
failing to replace it with more relevant intended/expected outcomes. The M&E framework was also revised, but
was not improved; it was still lacking in relevant outcome indicators that would have the potential to measure the
project outcome.

As pointed out in the ICR (page 23), the team missed two opportunities (at the original MTR and at the
restructuring) to, (i) address the Project’s M&E deficiencies indicated as a matter of concern on several occasions
by Bank management, and (ii) address EPF’s strategic capacity building instead of limited support to
strengthening capacity for implementation.
Furthermore, as noted earlier, additional financing would be provided for a project that has proven successful and
would be given for expanding or scaling up the success. There is no information in the ICR to explain the rationale
for the additional financing and extension of this project to eight years in a situation where there was little to show
in terms of achievements along with severe implementation delays and weak reporting (related to the
shortcomings in the M&E system).



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
 a. Government Performance:
    According to the ICR (p 23 section 5.2), the Government performed satisfactorily.

Although GOL counterpart funding was not required, an in-kind contribution was made representing 20 percent of
the subgrant amount under the PICE window, which included staff time, office space and utilities and the active
involvement of high level decision-makers.

The GOL delivered a number of key environmental and social compliance regulations and institutional reforms
during implementation. It also ensured compliance with the legal agreements.

The GOL provided strong support from high level decision-makers at the ministerial and departmental levels, and
it absorbed 56 percent of the Project-funded junior consultants based in Monroe (41 of 74) in 2012 thereby
ensuring sustainability of the reforms and the acquired capacity.


   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    There were significant implementation delays during the first 2-3 years of the project period and, according to
the ICR (p 23), the EPF’s performance improved more slowly than expected.

The ICR further reports (p 23-24) that the WMU arrangement was inadequate in fulfilling the technical assistance
and fiduciary roles for implementation and that the EPF experienced significant recruitment difficulties and delays
following a high staff turnover reducing efficacy and efficiency. The EPF did not manage to put in place a
functioning M&E system throughout the project period, and a dedicated system was still not in place at closing
(ICR p 24). There were some financial and procurement challenges due to staff’s lack of experience with Bank
procedures.

On the positive side, and despite the challenges, the EPF managed to disburse funds for subgrants, and to keep
operating costs under control and to reduce administrative costs in Phase 2.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The original results framework included a few poorly defined indicators, it lacked baseline data, targets and
monitoring methods, and it was not well aligned to the PDO (ICR p 10, section 2.3). Key indicators to measure the two
identified final outcomes were missing altogether. In addition, the Development Grant Agreement included an annex
with indicators, which did not fully comply with the results framework in the PAD. The results framework in the Grant
Agreement annex included more relevant and measurable indicators than the results framework in the PAD, but the
project does not seem to have related to the Grant Agreement annex at all despite the legal hierarchy of the
documents.

According to the ICR (p 10, section 2.3), none of the EPF manuals included a specific M&E framework to guide the
EPF in its M&E work and progress reporting. The project’s budget to establish and implement a WMU-based M&E
system was too limited.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   Baseline data collection was not carried out and some of the PAD-enumerated indicators were not measured.
The weaknesses in design were not fixed during implementation, nor even at restructuring. The EPF, which was
responsible for the M&E function, did not function effectively and efficiently. A comprehensive subgrant database of
use for all windows was developed by EPF during Phase 1, but the database did not include linkages to the M&E
indicators (ICR p 11). Phase 1 subgrants were captured in this database, but in Phase 2, the database was not
updated and was therefore incomplete at closure. There is no information in the ICR as to what extent the M&E was
owned by the various stakeholders, and there is a general lack of reliable data of good quality. The ICR further reports
that EPF’s capacity to analyze M&E data collected in order to inform implementation decisions and stakeholders was
limited due to a lack of training and due to the deficiencies in the M&E design (ICR p 11).


 c. M&E Utilization:
   M&E did not focus on assessing whether the theory of change within the project causality logic was sound and the
revision of the PDO failed to address that.

As noted, there was mostly input and output reporting, very limited reporting on outcomes, and these are lacking in
evidence. No shifts in the project’s direction and outcome can be attributed to the M&E activities.


In conclusion, the M&E Quality is rated Negligible because there were severe shortcomings in the M&E system’s
design, implementation, and utilization. The M&E system as designed and implemented was insufficient to assess the
achievement of the stated objectives and test the links in the results chain and the use and impact of the M&E system
were limited.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was a Category B project and triggered four Bank safeguard policies on Environment Assessment OP/BP
4.01; Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04, Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12, and Indigenous People OP/BP 4.10. An
Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework (ESSF) was prepared and disclosed on June 6, 2005, covering all
four safeguard policies. No additional safeguards were triggered for Phase 2.

According to the ICR (p 11, section 2.4), the Bank approved a subgrant template that included safeguard screening.
As part of the subgrant approval process, EPF screened subgrants for safeguard compliance by using the ESSF. The
ICR reports that the project complied with all safeguard policies.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management
According to the ICR (p12), the project depended largely on external FM consultants. The financial team experienced
a high workload particularly during Phase 1, processing more than 150 small subgrants. FM capacity and
performance were impacted by high staff turnover throughout implementation, and in 2012, the FM position was
vacant.

EPF developed a computerized FM system to monitor financial flows and assist in overall budget management. The
system became operational only in mid-2010. Issues included late advance clearing for subgrants and weak recording
of vehicle usage. Submissions of the Interim Financial Reports became regular and timely only in Phase 2, but they
did not include a narrative on Project progress and variance analysis until the last year of Phase 2. The monthly
reconciliation was not done regularly and the fixed assets register was not updated. Audits were conducted and
submitted on schedule and received unqualified results.

Procurement
The appraisal had assessed EPF’s procurement capacity as “high risk” based on the lack of procurement-proficient
staff in the country and the complex nature of the demand-driven, small-sized subgrants. The risk was confirmed as
the EPF struggled especially during Phase 1. The project experienced a high staff turnover involving three different
procurement specialists requiring multiple repeater training sessions. There was no evidence of deviation from the
Bank procurement policy.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR states that there were no unintended outcomes or impact (positive or negative) of the project (p 20).


d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Unsatisfactory       There were major shortcomings.
                               Satisfactory                                      Relevance was modest. The reported
                                                                                 project achievements are mainly inputs
                                                                                 and outputs. There is limited evidence
                                                                                 for project outcomes. Efficiency is rated
                                                                                 modest due partly to limited evidence
                                                                                 but also operational inefficiencies.

          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately           The shortcomings of Quality and Entry
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory       and for Supervision are considered to
                                                                                 be substantial especially regarding the
                                                                                 weak M&E framework and the failure to
                                                                                 adequately address its deficiencies at
                                                                                 multiple stages. This is one of the main
                                                                                 reasons for the project’s inability to
                                                                                 demonstrate its achievements.

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The following lessons can be drawn from this project:
1.        A sound M&E design is crucial for the project to be able to demonstrate achievements . Without a sound
M&E system and a sound theory of change reflected in the PDO and in the indicators , the project and the Bank
are missing the opportunity to learn about what works and what does not work .
2.        When subgrant mechanisms are used as a business model in projects , M&E becomes more challenging
(partly due to the remoteness of subgrant implementation to the PMU ). Such operating models thus require
particularly strong M &E designs and sound implementation . The ICR reports that the subgrant mechanism is a
valid business model for social or community driven development operations to support public administration and
remote project sites.
3.        The presence of voluntary private sector responsibility can provide substantial financial support . During
the project period, private hydroelectric and mining investors were willing to voluntary contribute financing for public
environmental management.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

On balance the ICR is rated Satisfactory but there were a number of weaknesses, some partly attributable to the
project weakness. The ICR is in general internally consistent, with the exception of the inconsistency in the figures on
p 4 and p 27 as mentioned in section 2. It contains important and relevant information. The lessons presented are
project-specific and of some value but not easily generalized. The quality of analysis is generally adequate, but it
focuses more on inputs and outputs than outcomes and is not results-orientated. However, the quality of results
evidence from the project itself was weak because the project lacked evidence to demonstrate achievement of
outcomes. This made ICR reporting on achievements particularly challenging.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
