Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7343-RW
S APF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDA
URBAN INSTITUTIONS SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAf 26, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
ThiIs document ias a restricted disdibuio snd may be used by recplents only in the perfornaome of
their officiik dutdes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wilthout World Bank authodrtf   |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 1989)
Currency Unit - Rwandese Franc (FRW)
US$1.00 - FRW 77
FRW 100 - US$1.30
FRW 1 million - US$13,000
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) - 39.37 laches or 3.3 feet
1 square meter (m2) - 10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
l hectare (ha) - 2.47 acres



rUuz Ur,- ILiAL giJa uNLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AEFB                     Assistance teo Wood Products Entrepreneurs (Appui
aux entrepreneurs fores-iers et du bois)
AfDB                     African Development Bank
BCR                      Commercial Bank of Rwanda (Banque Commerciale du
Rwanda)
BNR                      Central Bank (Banque Nationale du Rwanda)
BO                       Recurrent Budget (Budget Ordinaire)
BRD                      Rwandese Devalopment Bank (Banqu.e Rwandaise de
diveloppement)
CAII                     Center for Support of Industrial Change (Cellule
d'Appui aux innovations industrielles)
CCCE                     Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
(France)
CHR                      Mortgage Bank (Caisse Hypothécaire du Rwanda)
CIC                      Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee
CID                       Inter-Communal Development Credit (Crédit
intercommunal de développement)
CPM                      Head Tax (Contribution personnelle minimum)
DGW                      Directorate General o' Water (Direction générale
de l'eau)
EDF                      European Development Fund
ELECTROGAZ               National Water and Electricity Company
FDC                      Communal Development Fund (Fonds de développement
communal)
ILO                      International Labor Organization
KORA                     Federation of artisan associations
MINIFIN                  Ministry of Finance (Ministère des finances)
MININTER                 Ministry of Interior and Communal Development
(Ministèare de l'intérieur et du diveloppement
communal)
MINSANTE                 Ministry of Health (Ministère de la santa
publique)
MINITRAPE                Miniatry of Public Works, Energy and Water
(Ministire des travaux publics, de l'énergie et
de l'eau)
NGO                      Non-Governmental Organization
PAP                      Savings Program for Housing
PIPIPEP                  Pullic Investment/Expenditure Program
SDU                      Urtan Development Department (Service de
Développement Urbain)
TGB                      Tax on cattle (Taxe sur le gros bétail)
TF                       Property Tax (Taxe foncière)
UNCDF                    UN Capital Development Fund
UNDP                     United Nations Development Programme
This document has a restricted 4istribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



RWANDA
URBAN IK - LTUTIONS SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
PaRe No.
Credit and Project Summary .. ......... ......................... iv
I.   THE SECTOR: MANAGEMENT OF URBAN GROWTH ..................1
A.   Macroeconomic Setting and Sector Background .......... l
B.   Rural-Urban Migration and the Impacts of
Rapid Urbanization .......o.o..................................... *2
C.   Sector Institutions and Performance ..................3
D.   Sector Policy Initiatives ......... ........ ... ..... .. 7
E.   IDA Experience and Sectoral Dialogue   .....    ......10
II. THE PROJECT..10
A.   Origin and Preparation  ....... ......... 10
B.   Rationale for IDA Involvement ....................... 11
C.   Objectives .............................................. ll
D.   Project Description. ....... ........... . . .... .......... 12
- Resource Mobilization....» ..................... 12
- Urban Management....... ...........*...... .... ...... ..13
- Employment .................                 e...................14
- Program Management ................................15
E.  Cost Estimates ......................................l9
F.  Financing Plan ............. ........         **..**.............21
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ....................-o.... 22
A.   Implementation Arrangements ......................... 22
B*  Flow of Funds      .... ..           .....            27
C.   Monitoring of Expenditure Programs..................28
D.   Staffing and Training. ............................ .. 29
E.  Procurement        ...........      ... ...............32
F.   Disbursement Arrangements ................. ........ 34
G.   Accounting and Auditing ........................... .. 35
B.   Supervision, Evaluation, and Monitoring ............. 36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ruanda in February-March 1988, and of updating visita in July and October
1988 and February 1989. Mission members included Messrs. O. Grimes, M.
Benouahi, A. Gayrard (consultant), and J.F. Dréau, and B. Wolde-Gabriel and
Y. Picaud for the on-site sanitation program. J. Parker, A. Nau, C. Arias
and C. Guié assisted with preparation of the report.



Pa8R No.
IV. FINANCIAL FLOWS AND COST RECOVERY ....................... s36
A.  The Banking System and the Banques Populairese..... .36
B.  CID and Communal ............... .................... 39
C.  Affordability. ........................4
D.  Cos, Recovery and Replicability....................o44
V.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICAflION    ........   ....... ooostoeoe47
A.  Justificatior. ....... .........
B.  Environmental Impact...............................o48
C.  Benefit Estimation and Economic Rate of Return......48
D.  Risks and ProposetRemedies........................o49
VI. AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATION .................... 51
ANNEXES
1. Statement of General Policy in the Housing and
Urban Development Sector........... .......... 0  54
2.  Sectoral Investment Program..... ........... ......  67
3. Population of Major Cities andTowns....................70
4. Detailed Cost Est$mates. 00000000.......................0.71
5.  Execution and Management of Sectoral Programs...........107
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ................... o.119
7.  Implementation Schedule .................. .......... *  120
8. Communal Revenue Generation and FinancialaManagement.... 121
9. On-Site Sanitation Progrea. .....               .........00..0.......0127
10. CDRs Financial Condition and Prospecte ............... ..133
11. Benefit Estimation and Economic Rates of Return.........142
12. Organisation Charte ................................148
13. Select.d Documents and Data Available in the Project
Fie................*0.00.00.....00000.000.......0.0.0.0.0.000152
TABLES
Table  1s Summary Cost Table 0 t....20
Table  2: Financing Plan ......................................21
Table 3s SDU'ss Category of City and Year of Introduction
Table 4s Staffing of U.?ban Communes: Kigali and Three
Secondary Ceners 00000000000000000000000030
Table 5S Procurement Arrangements..... ..00.oe.oo*ooo.o....o.32
Table 6s Di$bursement Arrangements          .......34
Table  7s Banques Populaires - Xey Indicators ..........**.0000*38
Table  8s Consolidated 3udgetary Results for all Comunes ..... 40
Table  9s Schedule of C3tRecovery. ...st.....................46
Table 10* Economic Rates ofReturn.........0*0*...............49



ISAPS
Location of towas and responsibilities for urban services.....No. 20563R
Kigalit HousLng Prograus           ......................... . N.  20887
Kigali Neighborhood Upgradings Roade, Drainage, Water Supply..No. 20888
Kigali Neighborhood Upgradings Roads, Electricaty, and
Solid Waste Collection .........................   . No. 20951
Kigalis  Serviced Plots .*.**. ..No.  20889
Butares Servlced Plots .....             ..**..... . * No. 20890



iv
RWANDA
URBAN INSTITUTIONS SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cradit and Prolect Summary
Borrowert      Government of Rwanda
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Public Works, Energy, and Water; Municipality
of Kigali, 7 other cities and towns, Caisse Hypothicaire du
Rwanda (CHR), Inter-Communal Development Credit (CID),
ELECTROGAZ, artisan groups.
Amounts        SDR 24.8 million (US$32 million)
Temest         Standard IDA terms
Prolect Objectives: The project is designed tos
a.   strengthen national and local institutions responsible for the
management of urban growth, focusing on the role of the coummnes
in the planning and monitoring of investment programs and of
local and private sector groupa in their implementation;
b.   reduce budget subsidies to urban areas by placing the provision
of urban services on a self-financing basis;
c.   achieve a more rational use of urban land and limit encroachient
on agricultural holdings through the orderly transition of land
into urban use, the provision of basic infrastructure, and the
granting of secure land tenure;
d.   help provide term financing for construction and improvement of
housing by bringing financial sector resources within reach of a
wider range of urban residents;
e.   improve the resource base and financial taanagement of urban
communes and support the Inter-Communal Development Credit
agency (CID); and
f.   enhance the capacity of artisans, especially in the building
trades, to rAspond effectively to market incentives in the
production of urban services and housing.
Prolect Description
The project consists of actions in four areas of concentration,
in which the above objectives would be pursued:



v
a. Resource Mobilization: organizational improvements in tax
administration and financial planning in 8 communes; support to the Inter-
Communal Development Credit agency (CID); housing finance program by the
BanTizes Populaires to reach low-income families;
b. Urban Management: establishment of Urban Development
Departments (SDUs) in the most urbanized communes; strengthening of the
Caisse Hypothécaire du Rwanda (CHR); improvements in land management by the
communes and in the security of urban land tenure; physical upgrading and
serviced plot programs;
c. Emiloyment: assistance program for artisans including
training and construction of workshops; strengthening of production methcds
and marketing channels for the brickltile and sawn wood industries; studies
of construction costs and of alternatives to the use of cement;
d. Program Mana2ements assistance with sectoral expenditure
programming; program coordination; Application Study related to Government
decision to sell its stock of public housing.
Banefits:      The project supports development objectives through its
vxpected impacts on the national budget, on the rural-urban ecc'nomy, and on
central-local government relations. By improving the capacity ef cities
and towns to generate their own resources, the burdæns on the national
development and recurrent budgets would be reduced. In rapidly urbanizing
but still rural communes, the project introduces an urban structure so that
the chief communal officer (the Bourgmestre) can deal with urban concerns
more effectively. In support of the Government commitment to transfer
specific authority to the commur.es, the project would strengthen local
administrations while at the same time preserving the supervisory authority
of the central ministries.
Riskss         The main risks concern the capacity of the executing
agencies, cost recovery, and decentralization. Specific measures,
including the gradual introduction of new responsibilities in the urban
communes, have been designed so as to reduce these risks to acceptable
levels.
Prolect Costs The total cost of the project is estimated at FRW 5.1
billion (US$66.2 million), of which US$14.1 million, or approximately 21%,
represents the foreign exchange components



vi
--UsS Million --       …1---  ------     …  ------
Percent
of    Percent
A. Reecurce Mobilization                   Local  Foretgn  Total            TOtal    Foreign
A-1 Local Revenue Generation
end Financil Management                    1.2    0.4    1.8              2.8%    28.B%
A-2 Credilt Intercoounel de
Developpement (CID)                       0.ô    0.1    0.7              1.0%     18.7K
A-J Houming Finance                           18.4    0.4   18.8             28.4%      2.0%
B. Urban Managemnt
B-j Urban Dev. Departments                     8.7    4.9   1B8.             20.6%    88.2%
9-2 CHR                                        0.6    0.6    1.0              1.6%     61.8%
B-B  Lnnd Managmnt                             0.8    0.8    0.6              0.9%    47.0%
W-4 iNousing Programs                         11.1    8.6   14.6             22.0%    24.0%
C. Employment
C-1 Assistance to Artlans                     0.6    0.6    1.1              1.8%    41.8%
C-2 Aseletance to construction
Industry                                  1.9    0.4    2.8              8.6%    18.1%
D   Program Management                         0.8    0.9    1.7              2.6%    62.8a
TOTAL BASE COSYS                              44.0   11.9   W5.9             84.6%    21.8%
Physical Contingencies                         2.1    1.0    8.1              4.7%    81.7%
Price Contingencies                            6.0    1.2    7.2             10.8%    17.4%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           62.1   14.1   68.2            100.0%    21.4%
Financing Plan:
Contribution (US$ million)
IDA                                    ?2.0
Banques Populaires                     21.5
UNCDF                                   2.9
UNDP                                    1.0 *
FAC (France)                            1.1
Government                              5.0
Communes                                2.7
Total                      66.2
* Provisional



vil
Estimated Dt.abursementss
IDA              FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95   FY96
Avaual           1.4     7.0       8.0     6.0      5.0     3.1    1.5
Cumulative       1.4     8.4      16.4    22.4    27.4    30.5   32.0
Economic Rate of Returns   162
Staff ARpraisal Report:    Rwanda, Urban Institutions Sectoral Development
Project (Report No.7343-RW)
!4apa:   IBRD Nos. 20563R, 20887, 20888, 20951, 20889, and 20890.



I.    TRE SECTOR t XAR&GEMBUT OF UREAN GRô0TR
A.   Macroeconoeic S*tti_a and Sector eackarUomd
1.1       Prudent economic management, a relatively liberal trade regime,
and sound monetary and fiscal policies have been principally respcnsible for
sustaining GDP growth in Rwanda et an annual rate of 5 percent tbrough the
19709. More recently, in response to rapid increases in governm<ant
expenditure, the growth of public sector employment vas curbed and other
austerity measures taken to reduce current account and budgetary deficits.
These measures have reduced such deficits but have not eliminated them, and
much remains to be done to improve investment planning efficiency, contain
budget transfers to public enterprises, and strengthen tax admi-lstration.
Meanwhile, as a major public effort is directed toward food security, the
trend continues toward very amall farms and declining soil fertility. It is
estimated that 262 of all agricultural holdings are nov less than half a
hectare in size.
1.2      In this context, steps t&ken over the past three years are helping
to consolidate more than 1,300 public sector projeczs into the firtt Public
Investment Program. Preparation of tha Fourth Plan (1990-1994) vithin this
proceas is moving through three phases, though vith a delay of three years
compared vith the original timetable. In the firat phase the broad
directions vere outlined in the form of strategic objectives that take
account of national priorities as vell as the results (published as an
evaluation report) of the Third Plan. A report on this stage issued in
November 1986 gives highest priority to food self-sufficiency, but also
indicates that achievement of this goal vill be facilitated if the right
policies are pursued in (among other sectors) communal development, housing,
urban development, and artisan and amall enterprise promotion. In the
second phase, the Planning Ministry reviewed strategy statements prepared by
the technical ministries using a common format. Seminars and vorkshops have
videned the p'articipation in this process. The third phase consists of
preparation by the Planning Ministry of a 2- or 3-year PIPIPEP, the first of
its kind in the country. Based on the current achedule, an initial draft of
the Plan vith fully elaborated Public Investment Program is to be available
by the end of 1989.  Although not all elements of the Public Expenditure (as
opposed to Investment) Program would then be present, the implications of
the PIP for the Recurrent Budget (BO) would be defined. An annual review
cycle vould then begin, in which adjustments in the Program would be made
yearly.
1.3        Economic planning and management in Rwanda has not traditionally
been concerned with issues of urbanization and urban growth, since until
comparatively recently Rwanda had few cities and towns of any size. Prior
to independence towns vere seen as outposts for colonial authorities to
administer rural populations dispersed in family compounds (urugos) over a
vide area. Permanent settlement in the towns was discouraged. The actions



- 2-
of missionaries, who encouraged people to remain on the l-td, reinforced
this trend. At leaat lnitially, the self-contained missions tended to make
unnecessary all activity which could have taken place outaide them.  At
present, vith about 500,000 urban residents out of a total population ct 6
million, cities and towns in Rwanda are growing rapidly but on a manageablé
secale. A principal reason for giving attention to urban issues is therofors
to prevent them from becoming more serious in the future.
1.4        However, two .ther factors suggest that attention to
urbanisation issues is important in the pursuit of macroeconomic goals,
First, the high population density and the scattered nature of rural
settlement have resulted in strong rural-urban linkages and enhanced the
role of cities and towns as distribution, transport, and employment centers
for the surrounding regions.  Efficient provision of sertvce«  and employment
in urban areas helps to improve productivity and incomes on a national
level. Second, the lack of adequate pricing and cost recovery for urban
services places an extra burden on the national budget and undoubtedly
contributes to the growing disparity between urban and rural incomes.
Between 1985 and 2000, between 1.3 million and 2 million people will be
added to the urban population. Generation of productive activity including
up to 30,000 new housing units per year for these new residents requires
coordinated public and private initiatives, reductions in subsidies to urban
areas, and a broad-gauged reform of sectoral institutions.
B.  Rural-Urban N4iration and the Impacts of Rasid Urbanisation
1.5        Although in many African countries there is a sharp distinction
between city and country, in Rwanda the constant interchange of goods and
people has reduced the differences between urban and rural areas. Nearly
302 of those employed in Kigali, the capital, and fully 552 in Butare, a
major secondary center, are engaged in agriculture à> either a primary or a
supplementary occapation. Similarly, many rural smallholders go to town to
live and worI  as artisans during off-peak periods.  The population of Kigali
grew at about 6% per year during 1978-86, but even more important vas the
comparative evenness of growth in all cities and towns: during the same
period the urban population as a whole grew 5.4%. As urbanization
intensifies it will become more difficult to combine agriculture with urban
pursuits, because cf the growth of built-up areas and the distance people
will have to walk to the land they cultivate.
1.6        Even though families .tave moved relatively freely back and forth
between rural areas and town, it has not (until recently) been the same for
migrants moving to the city for good. The basic 1966 law states that "Any
residence in prefectural capitals without employment is forbidden." Clearly
tais law has not been vigorously enforced, as the strong growth of Kigali
attests. It nevertheless has served in the past as a legal support for
officials primarily ccncerned with the physical appearance of cities.
Sidewalk retailing and similar work outlets in the informal sector have
been, and to an extent sa.ill are, actively discouraged. Hovever, it has
become much easier in recent years for migrants to obtain a work permit.
After much discussion it was decided in 1984 that communes, rather than the



central ministr, could deliver work permits.  These permits vere initially
valid for only three months, but were renewable. Since July 1985 a
federation of artisan trade associations has been empowered to deliver the
formerly elusive work permits. Artisans in cities and towms assisted by the
project vould generally obtain work permit. from the communes, and programs
of this federation and of other groups would be supported in the present
operation. Secure land tenure, the other symbol of legal residence in the
city, has taken longer to legitimize for occupants of unregistered land, but
has alseo now been adopted as official policy (see, for exemple, Annex 1).
Application of a full range of policy instruments to confirm the right of
urban residents to continue living where they have settled would be
supported in the project.
1.7        The need for stronger, yet more flexible urban management is
most evident in Kigali, which has grown from a village of 6,000 at
independence 25 years ago to its present population of 215,000. To date,
planning of the urbanization process has applied to only about 7 percent of
the city. Public housing has been built for 344 civil servants, mainly high
officials, a very small proportion of the more than 9,000 Government
employees. Settlement of most districts has been the product of thousands
of individual household decisions to "purchase' a plet from a holder of
customary land rights, rather than an organized process of neighborhood
creation. Left on its own, the housing market has been relatively
efficient. Kigali does not sutfer from a major shortage of affordable
housing. Instead, the priorities are precisely those in which organization,
scale, and public commitment are most criticalt (a) housing finance; (b)
secure land tenure; and (c) maintenance of infrastructure. To this can be
added the production of local building materials, whose cost is among the
verld' highest and which has not been organized or supported to the degree
requLred to satisfy demand.
1.8        What can be termed the real sector -- the markets for land,
labor, and materials in the production of services and housing -- has thus
evolved largely vithout links to the monetary or financial sector. Artisan
activity is a good exemple. Production of rural artisans in 1982-83 vas
equal to agricultural production and represented about a quarter of rural
incomes. In Kigali and the smaller towns artisan activity i. alseo a major
source of income, but lack of finance, organization, and technical expertise
keeps productivity at low levels (see also para. 1.18 below). The same
holds for urban housing. Even though the banking system is presently over-
liquid, the lack of long-term outlets for saving has meant that capital
tends to be channelled instead into shorter-term trade or out of the
country. Regulations vere recently liberalized to encourage savings for
hcusing, but no commercial bank is yet lending for longer than 5 years.
C. Sector Institutions and Performanc2
1.9        Responsibility for urban development and housina rests vith the
Hinistry of Public Works, Energy and Water (MINITRAPE).  The Ministry has
vide-ranging authority tc construct housing, apply subdivision and building
standards, issue land titles, and prepare urban and regional development



- 4 -
plans. While subscribing to the principles of decentralization, MINITRAPE
has invoked the weak capacity of communes and the inadequacy of
institutional frameworks as grounds for continuing virtually complete
responsibility for urban levelopment. The delay in establishment of the
municipality of Kigali has meant that MINITRAPE has continued to assume
responsibility for functions usually carried out by city governnents, such
as street repairs and garbage collection. Its resources are far from
adequate for all these tasks. Guidance on urban matters is furnished by the
Office of the Presidency and by the Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee
(CIC) on urban development, which is chaired by the Minister of Public
Works.
1.10       Part of the difficulty  MINITRAPE has faced in managing
urbanization stems from a local administrative framework that is not well
Pe.pted to urban settings. A 1975 act designated two of the country's 143
communes as urban, but did not make any corresponding changes in their
structure or staffing. Meanwhile cities and towns continued to grow,
sometimes across communal boundaries. One sector of a commune might be
highly urbanized, while other sectors remained rural. Another attempt vas
made in 1979 to deal with the mismatch between existing local structures and
urbanization: 12 'Urban Districts' (circonscriptions urbaines) were created
for the largest cities and towns. With no staff or revenues, however, the
Urban Districts have had no effective authority. Moreover, their boundaries
do not always correspond So where the cities are actually growing. The
Urban Districts have remained rather abstract urban planning units, while
local government functions continue to be exercised by communes (see para.
1.11 below).
1.11       Local government consists of 143 communes, grouped into ten
prefectures (provinces). The commune is headed by a bourgmestre, appointed
by the President. Assisting the bourgmestre is an elected Communal Council;
a Technical Commission whose role is to plan and evaluate development
projecta of the commune and seek their financing;  and a Development Council
which combines the Communal Council, the Technical Commission, and the heads
of central goverrment bodies represented in the commune into a consultative
forum that advises the bourgmestre on major issues. While this structure
encourages collaboration and consensus in decision-making, the advice the
bourgmestre receives is not always technically well-founded, especially on
complex issues of urban management. No urban counterparts exist to the
agronomista and other specialists that improve the relevance of communes to
the rural economy. For the 17 communes that are nov partly or wholly urban,
the need for a structure and for expertise more adapted to the efficient
provision of urban services is now widely recognized.
1.12       It is also recognized that reform of communal finances must
accompany reforms in organization. The chief local taxes remain the Head
Tax (CPM, currently FRW 400 or US$5 per year) and the tax on cattle.   Since
the CPM is paid not to the commune of residence but to the commune of
origin, it represents a transfer of resources from cities back to the
original homes of the rurel migrants. This benefits most communes, although
it also leaves the urban communes with few alternative sources of revenue.
In Nyarugenge (Kigali), the country's largest urban commune, the CPM



- 5 -
represents less thr. 5% of receipts. Nor have property taxes been a major
factor.  The single property tax ("impat personnel sur les habitations') is
a national rather than local tax, and iB levied at a flat rate.  With little
buoyancy in local sources of revenue, many communes have resorted to the
"umusanzu", a vide array of extra-legal taxes on economic activity which
have accounted for as much as 35-40% of revenues. Taken together, these
efforts nevertheless generate receipts equal to about 8% of central
government tax revenues. When the value of 'umuganda" (community labor
contributions) is added, total communal resources could represent about 15Z
of central government receipte, a higher percentage than that of, for
example, Cameroon or Senegal. It is therefore important to use these
resources effectively and to plan for their growth.
1.13       Although the management of urban growth has been almost the
exclusive domain of MINITRAPE, elsewhere in the economy central goveroment
responsibilities are being transferred to local authorities in an on-going
decentralization process. Construction of primary schools, health and
nutrition centers, tribunals, and development and training centers is nov
done prbmarily by local government. The Compagnons Bâtisseurs, a local
housing cooperative in Kigali, has begun a construction program of 140
houses costing about $4,000 each. Heavy reliance is placed on local
building materials and on participation by beneficiaries in the building
process. A similar pilot effort managed by the commune is uanderway in
Butare. MINITRAPE is nov favorably disposed toward participation by local
government, NGOs and the private sector in the management of Kigali and
other urban centers.
1.14       Since 1984 MINITRAPE has also been responsible for urban land
manaRement. At that time, the Urban Planning Department vithin the Ministry
vas asked to handle expropriation, granting of titles, and management of
land rights in addition to its more traditional role in urban planning and
in servicing of land. The result has been a serious overload, reducing the
effectiveness of this Department in everything it does. As is true in many
other aspects of Rwandese development, communes have stepped into the vacuum
and have organized the land management process as best they can. Indeed, a
1963 law requires that communes organize land registry bureaus and communal
cadastres. Many communes have for some time been k.oping de facto land
registries through issuance of 'actes de notoriati", attestations which
sumiarize the type of possession, extent of land rights, and any physical
development of the plot. However, the legal status of these attestations is
precarlous, and in any case the practice is not uniformly applied. Most
urban residents have no vritten evidence of tenure statua on the land they
occupy.
1.15       The principal agency for constructing and managing public
housint is the Caisse Hy-èotheaire du Rwanda (CHR), a mortgage bank vith
mixed public and private capital established in 1975. By statute CHR may
involve itaelf in all phases of the house-construction process, from initial
design and search for financing to mortgage !inding, construction,
management, and coordina;ion of infrastructure at the site. In practice,
CHR in the 1980s has tried to do several thinge, and has done none of them
very vell. Several misguided projecte and false starts have led CHR to



-6-
serious financial difficulties. Its losses have grown annually to equal
about half of its share capital, despite an increase in share capital from
Government effective in 1983-84. Under a restructuring plan for 1990-1994,
CHR has been instructed to narrow the scope of its mandate so as to do foeer
things better, and to strengthen its internal financial management.
1.16       The bankinz and financial sector is composed of three commercial
banks, the network of cooperative savings agencies making up the Union des
Banques Populaires, and other savings institutions including the Caisse
d'Epargne and Caisse Sociale. Although banks are presently over-liquid and
in search of productive medium and long-term placements, the financing of
housing has thus far been limited to (i) short and medium term financing of
luxury housing for rent; (ii) short-term financing by the Banques Populaires
of housing improvements and, to a much lesser degree, self-help unitst and
(iii) public financing of a few civil servant houses, rental units managed
by the Public Works Ministry, and some medium-term loans by the Caisse
Hypothécaire du Rwanda (CHR). Rigidities in the term transformation of
funds, plus the lack of mortgage insurance, are the main reasons why few
financial resources have thus far gone into housing.
1.17       Among these banking institutions, the Banques Populaires have
the greatest potential for productive lending for urban housing. With
assistance from the Swiss government, they have expanded rapidly since 1975
and now have more than 100 branches throughout the country. They have been
especially effective at collecting deposits from small savers, but are now
faced with excess liquidity and a scarcity of medium and long term
investments.
1.18       The labor force in Rwanda is increasing by 120,000 people each
year, and a growing percentage of these people (20% presently) seek jobs in
urban areas. Industry, which can meet at most 5% of these needs, cannot
under any circumstances be a major generator of employment. Artisan
activity is much more important, in both rural and urban areas. Artisans
tend to be more concentrated in a few occupations in rural areas (brick-and-
tile makers and potters account for nearly half), with slightly more variety
in secondary centers and considerably more in Kigali. Even in the capital,
however, certain occupations (construction, maintenance, some services) tend
to be under-represented. Artisans in secondary centers are often farmers
supplementing their income from the land. They typically earn $30-70 per
month as artisans , but some (e.g. velders) can earn considerably more. In
Kigali, the earnings of artisans in the right working conditions can compare
favorably with salaries of skilled wage-earners. Most artisans, however,
are held back by inadequate technical skills and training, and especially by
the atomized nature of their working environment, which causes them to spend
enormous time a.i effort finding a site, getting supplies, applying for bank
loans, and financing initial working capital. Many rural artisans work' at
more than one trade, and when arriving in cities and towns rant to continue
to do so in order to find out which occupation is most remunerative and to
spread the risk. Although economically sound, this practice makes it
difficult to organize training programs for artisans and to improve their
technical skills.



D. Sector Pollyc Initiatives
Urban Strateov Studv
1.19       Under the supervision of MINITRAPE, a comprehensive study of
strategy options for urban development was completed in 1986. The study vas
undertaken locally by a team of local and foreign experts and vas financed
by the Study Fund of the IDA Technical Assistance I project (Cr. 1217). Its
recommendations aim at strengthening the management of cities and tomns and
reducing subsidies to urban areas. These recommendations constitute an
agenda for sector-vide reform in housing finance, urban land management,
low-cost housing, communal finance, and local government organisation, and
vere endorsed at the CIC Ministerial level in January 1986. The concepts
underlying the proposals vere fvrther reviewed at a seminar held in Kigali
in February 1986 attended by over 50 Government officials. The proposed
project is the first application of these sectoral reforms.  As discussed in
the next section, it includes action on the major policy issues of the
Strategy Study, and would also address two areas less thoroughly treated in
that studyt artisan promotion, and the interaction between sectoral and
national investment progr6-ing.
Nuuicipalitv of Kitali and .'ommunal Reform
1.20       The most difficult challenge ln the establishment of strong
local authorities in Rwanda is the creation of an urban administration for
the city of Kigali. The urbanized area of the city apreads over all of one
commune and parts of three others out of the 19 communes in the Prefecture
of Kigali. In other towns this situation does not arise since communal
boundaries correspond more closely to the lilmits of the urbanized areas.
Proposals for a separate administration of the capital vere firet made in
1965, sad discussions in 1985 had reached the point of agreement by the
Interior Ministry (the supervising miuistry of local goverument) that sn
urban administration for Kigali vould be created as the country's llth
prefecture. Draft legislation -as discussed at Cabinet level in early 1987,
but vas referred back to the Ministry of Interior for some additional
information. Subsequently, MINITRAPE vas instructed by the President to
draw the boundaries of the new entity, and was given detailed guidance on
how to do so. The Cabinet decided in May 1988 that the boundaries of the
new municipality of Kigali would be those of the existing Urban District
(circonscription urbaine; of Kigali, and in April 1989 approved legislation
creating the municipality and setting out the main features of its
organization.
1.21       Apart from the specific probleme posed by Kigali, communal
development appears at present to enjoy vide support. The consensus-
building effort has been led mainly by the single political party, MRND, and
by the President.  In July 1987, the Government requested Bank assistance in
a sustained process aimed at greater decentralization of program planning
and execution nationvide.  The present project and the forthcoming Communal



- 8 -
Development operation (FY92S) vill be the main channels for IDA assistsace
ln this process.
Communal Develoument Fund (FDC) and Inter-Communal Develoyment Credit (CID)
1.22       When communes in the late 19709 vere given greater
responsibility, it vas recognized that poorer communes could not finance the
required expenditures on their ovn. The Communal Development Fund (FDC) vas
established to cross-sub.idize poorer communes from the vell-off ones and
allow communes access to credit in the form of grants and l iLnterest
loans. One-tenth of ordinary receipte of each commune vere contributed to
the FDC, which also rece'.ved budgetary subsidies, borrowings, and assistance
from Swiss and French bilateral cooperation. The fact that the FDC made
both grants and loans gave rise to friction, as it vas widely perceived that
pressure on the FDC led to many of the more vell-off communes receiving
grants while the veaker ones had to take out loans. This lack of autonomy,
together vith inadequate participation of the communes in FDC decisions,
vere the chief operational problems of the FDC. Debate on this issue has
led to a proposal to create a new agency, vith administrative and managerial
autoonomy, operating under general guidance from the Finance Ministry. This
agency, Inter-Communal Development Credit (CID), vas created ln February
1989, snd is in the process of absorbing the assets and liabilities of the
FDC. As it carries out its mandate of making loans to communes for
productive investments, Lt vould be supported by the project.
Financial Sector
1.23       Recent decisiins aimed at de-regulation of the financial sector
have created a more comp;titive enviroiment for housing finance.  The
Central Bank (BNR) in 1986 lengthened the maximum allowable maturity on
commercial bank loans from 5 to 15 years. This establishes at least the
potential for commercial banks to lend for housing.  Unlike many African
countries Ruanda has more choices than the usual ones of either enticing the
larger commercial banks into such lending, or establishing a savings-for-
housing acheme outaide the banking system. The Banques Populaires are
better placed than the more traditional commercial banks to mobilize and
transform resources into long term debt for this purpose. The Gover,ment i.
villing to have the Banques Populaires play a more prominent role Ln lending
for urban housing, on condition that they compete on an equal footing vith
other banks in keeping vith the overall liberalization of the commercial
sector.
CUR
1.24       The poor perf rmance and precarious financial condition of CHR
has led the Government tc. consider a vide range of proposals for reform,
includlng that of doing &.way vith CHR altogether. Under a Rehabilitation



Plan for 1990-1994, CHR would narrow its mandate so as to do fewer things
better, and strengthen its internal financial management. Its long term
vocation is likely to be either as a land servicing agent and developer, or
as a financial intermediary providing bridge or construction loans that
would be converted into mortgages by the banking system. The transition to
either vocation, however, needs to be managed carefully. Most of its
current staff of 44 are housing and infrastructure specialists whose
experience, variable as it iL, is greater than that of any other public or
private developer.  Construction financing, however, also fills a need that
iL not effectively being met by others. Coexistence of the two functions
during a well-managed transition period is likely to be the best means of
arriving at a long-term strategy for CHR.
Construction Industry and Artisan Develojment
1.25       It has traditionally been hard to design employment generation
programs, whether in rural or in urban areas, that deliver good results for
their cost. Considering such programs as a key element of urban sectoral
reforma has taken time to evolve in Rwanda. This explains why little
attention during -he project preparation study, and none in the previous
Urban Strategy Stuly, was devoted to this question.  On the other hand,
production of better quality building materials and encouragement of
artisans in the building trades tc lmprove their skills have always been
seen as important. Urban growth has increased the demand for building
materials, to which the market has either not responded or has responded
vith materials of low quality. Basic building bricks, for example, have
deterioratee markedly in quality in recent years. For local materials to
replace importe and foreign exchange to be saved, quality improvement is
required.
1.26       Supported by some NGOs, the ILO has developed over 30 production
units for roofing tiles. The quality of these tiles is such that they are
replacing imported tin and asbestos cement roofing sheets. For wood, the
lack of production facilities means that much sawn wood is still imported,
despite the relatively abundant forests. Improvement in production capacity
and the strengthening of marketing channels are among the goals of a UNDP
project on the Non-Structured Sector in Kigali, with ILO as executing
agency. In a succeseful exemple of linkage between the real and financial
sectors, the federation of artisans (KORA) collected FRW 800,000 (US$10,400)
from its members. Combined with funds from the ILO project (FRW 1.2
million) and from the Office of the Presidency (FRW 1 million), these
savinge make up a Guarantee Fund equal to 25% of the financing made
available by the banking system for initial artisan loans. An especially
high recovery rate (961) on these loans contributed to the founding, in
April 1986, of a branch of the Banques Populaires dealing exclusively with
lending to artisans. Concerning small and medium enterprises, a significant
portion of the fourth IDA credit to the Rwandese Development Bank (BRD) is
r.served for financing suitable projecte proposed by such enterprises.



- 10 -
F. IDA Experience end Sectoral Dtaloaue
1.27       The implementation record of several IDA-assisted urban projects
in East Africa, including the First Urban Development Project in Burundi
(FY80) and the first two in Kenya, provitded lessons from experience as the
Rwandese started a dialogue with IDA and other agencies in the early 1980s.
Master Plans had been prepared for the largest towns, notably for Kigali in
1977. Although the Master Plans themselves quickly lost their relevance,
the process proved useful ln that it fostered a series of reviews of key
suib-sectoral issues such as urban land management, low cost housing
provision, and housing finance, which continued for several years afterward.
The experience of similar IDA projects confirmed the need for reform along
the lines emerging from the sub-sectoral studies.  IDA resources vere then
brought to bear more directly, first through financing of an Urban Strategy
Study under the firet Technical Assistance credit (see para. 1.19) and later
through an IDA-managed sector study of communal organization snd finance. l/
1.28       In Rwanda as elsewhere, our dialogue on urban issues has been
influenced by macroeconomic strategy and by similar issues being faced in
other sectors. The approach to confirmation of urban land rights has a
close parallel in ongoing IDA research on land tenure, rural credit, and
agricultural production, which is examining the effects on agricultural
productivity snd the use of productive factors when land is registered and
titles issued it rural areas. The Vater Supply II project (Cr. 1783)
promotes the strengthening of communes for maintenance of vater networks in
much the same way as the present project would strengthen them in the
maintenance of urban services. The approach to artisan promotion is
analogous to that of the Gitarama Agricultural Production project (Cr. 1669)
which is also working vith the artisan trade federation KORA. Finally,
preparation of the on-site sanitation program vas undertaken by UNDP/Bank
staff of the Water Decada group, on the basis of their extensive experience
throughout Africa.
Il. TUE PROJEOT
A. Orioin sud preparation
2.1        Debate on the issues raised by the project has been active for
many years in Rwanda, in one case (that of the need for a municipality of
Kigali) since the mid-1960s. A milestone in the procesas vas the Master Plan
of Kigali, prepared in 1977 with financing from FAC (France).  During its
preparation, critical issues, especially urban land policy and housing
finance, vere addressed ty French consultants in a series of reports
l1    The Role of the Communes ln the Socio-Economic Develolment of Rwanda,
Report No. 6734, October 26, 1987.



- il -
prepared over several years.  Analysis of these issues vas perhapa the
furthest advanced when the Public Works Ministry ln 1985 prepared th. Urban
Strategy Study (para. 1.19).
2.2        Upon completion of the Urban Strategy Study in 1986, terms of
reference were prepared by the Public Works Ministry for an operation to
implement the strategy. A Government request for a PPF advance vas approved
in late 1986, and the preparation study began in February 1987. The
preparation team had significant country experience since many of them were
alseo key participants in the Urban Strategy Study.  The first two phases of
the preparation study mere completed in September 1987, shortly before the
arrival of the IDA preappraisal mission.  During the remaining phase of the
study, completed in February 1988, the Government suxumari:ed strategic
directions for the secter in a Strategy Statement of Sectoral Development
Policy and in Action Plans indicating the main steps in execution of
otrategies in the different sub-sectors (see Annex 1).
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.3        IDA's association with the project came in thé latter stages of
the long national debate referred to above. The fact that there had been a
good deal of reflection prior to IDA becoming involved helped shorten the
operational stage, since on the strategic issues a national consensus vas
emerging or had already been achieved. However, IDA's participation in the
discussions, and especially the lessons of its experience vith urban
projecta in Africa, has helped move the process along. Its participation
has also been impportant in strengthening the linkages between project
actions and macroeconomic strategy, and in encouraging decision-making.
2.4        A sustained IDA commitment to the sector vould continue to help
catalyze support among donors for urban sectoral reforms. Traditionally in
Rwanda, donors have been concerned vith rural areas, which have in effect
been divided into zones of geographic concentration of specifie agencies.
For donors who, like IDA, see that effective interchange benefits both rural
and urban areas, the urban investment program and institutional reforma are
indeed a growing national priority. This view vas videly shared among
participants at the March 1988 Round Table meeting of potential donors, even
among those not contributing financially to the project.
C. Objectives
2.5        Teking account of sector conditions and prioritles, the project
is designed tos
a.   strengthen national and local institutions responsible for the
management of urban growth, foeusing on the role of the comunes in
the planning and monitoring of investment programs and of local and
private sector groups in their implementation;



- 12 -
b.   reduce budget subsidies to urban areas by placing the provision of
urban services on a self-financing basis;
c.   achieve a more rational use of urban land and limit encroachment on
agricultural holdings through the orderly transition of land into
urban use, the provision of basic infrastructure, and the granting of
secure land tenure;
d.   help provide term financing for construction and improvement of
housing by bringing financial sector resources vithin reach of a
vider range of urban residents;
e.   improve the resourue base and financial management of urban communes
and support the Inter-Communal Development Credit agency (Cridit
Inter-Communal de Jiveloppement, CID); and
f.   enhance the capacity of artisans, especially in the building trades,
to respond effectively to market incentives in the production of
urban services and housing.
D. Pro1ect Description
Suumary Description
2.6        The project consista of actions in four areas of concentration,
in vhich the above objectives vill be pursued. The four areas of
concentration are (a) rerource mobilization, (b) urban management, (c)
promotion of artisans an.t of the construction industry, and (d) program
manaRement. The specific actions proposed are outlined below and described
in more detail later in this section. Further details on the nature of the
actions to be carried out and their implementation can be found in Annex 5.
A.  Resource Mobilizati>n
A.1 Local Revenue Generation find! Financial Manatement
-    Establisament of a Financial Affaire Department in the
Municipality of Kigali, and of Financial Departments in
three secondary towns (Butare, Ruhengeri, and Gisenyi).
Improved financial planning and management in four smaller
centers (Cyangugu, Rvamagana, Ruhango, and Mukamira).
-    Establishnment of a Property Tax collected in communes that
are part .y or wholly urban, together vith improved
financia_. management.



- 13 -
A.2 Cledit Inter-Communal de Divelop.2«.nt (CID>
-    Creation of an Urban Development Fund within CID to
administer loans to communes.
-    Strengthening of CID in processing of loan applications aad
evaluation of proposals from communes.
A.3 xous4nt Finance
Implementation of a Savings for Housing Program by the
Banques Populaires that would improve Rccess to loanable
funds.
Training of Banques Populaires staff in mortgage financing.
Interim evaluation of the program and, if justified,
preparation of later phases that would include other
savings institutions.
B.   Urban Management
B. 1 Urban Development P3tartments
-    Establishment of an Urban Development Department (SDU) in
Kigali.
-    For Butare, Ruhengeri, and Gisenyi, establishment of
simila: departments beginning the second year.
For the four smaller centers, enhanced responsibility for
Urban Inspectors at the prefecture level beginning the
third year.
B.2 Rehabilitation of Caisse R othicaire du Rwanda (CU)R
-    For a five-year transition period, CHR would confine its
activity to land development and to construction/mortgage
financing.
-    As land developer, implementation of housing programs (sàe
B.4 below) on behalf of the communes.



- 14 -
As intertm financier, (i) development of construction
loans; (ii) establishment of Guarantee Funda for loans for
construction of latrines made by the Banques Populaires;
(iii) launching of mortgage insurance facility; and (iv)
sale of plots setbdivided by the Public Works Ministry.
B.3 Securitv of Urban Land Tenure
-    Implemen:,ation of program to grant secure land tenure to
urban reuidents.
-    Seminars and training courses for the required staff.
B.4 HousLnt Proarams
-    Improvement of living conditions through upgrading of basic
infrastrncture and on-site sanitation in five neighborhoods
of Kigali. Credits for housing construction and
improvement.
-    Development of about 1,100 serviced plots in Kigali and
Butare. Credits for housing construction and assistance to
builders.
C.    EmD1oYment
C.1 Assistance to Artisans
-    Development of artisan sites in Kigali and Butare.  Credits
for construction of workshops on the sites.
-    Establishment and management of supplies of building
materialu.
-    Technical training and marketing assistance.
-    Surveys and monitoring of the economie environment
affecting artisans and impact studies of the assistance
offered them.



- 15 _
C.2 Assistance to the Construction Sector
-    Quality improvement ln bricks and roofing tiles made by
amall-sc3le producers; technical training and markeping
assistance.
-    Support for improvement of sawn wood products and
establishment of wood distribution centers.
-    Training and advice to artisans through construction of
wash-houses and other community facilities.
-    Studies of alternatives to imported cement and monitoring
of construction costs and ways to reduce them.
D.   Protram Manaftement
D.1 Establishment of a coordination unit for project activities.
D.2 Support for sectoral investment and expenditure programming.
D.3 Application Study oi. specific steps to implement policies to
reduce Governnent subsidies in housing for civil servants.
D.4 Audit of accounts of the project and of implementing agencies.
D.5 Provision for studies not yet identified.
Detailed Feat'res
-- RQsource Mobilisation
2.7        Local Revenue Generation and Financial Management.  Communes
generally manage their current receipts and expenditures satisfactorily, but
find it difficult to pla,i and finance capital investments and forecast
future expenditure needs. The project focuses on these problems in the 17
communes having part or ull of an Urban District (circonscription urbaine)
within their borders. Finances in these urban communes would be improved
through (a) introduction of a Property Tax that would apply at a fixed rate
to four categories of bu.ldings and land; (b) preparation and discussion of
proposals for adjustment in traditional commune taxes, inIcluding the Head
Tax (CPM); (c) a study oi tax effort at the local level based on surveys of
taxpayers, which will help clarify anomalies in communes' tax structures and
ensure that a stronger communal tax base does not infringe on the national
tax base; and (d) staff, materials, and training to improve tax collection.
The Property Tax represeLts not more than 2-3% of median family income in
Kigali. With regard to financial management, the intention is for the
larger urban communes, wLth guidance from the Ministry of Interior, to
develop basic 5-year exponditure forecasts and improve accounting and



- 16 -
record-keeplng. Double entry accounting would be introduced in Kigali,
Butare, and possibly also Gisenyt and Ruhengeri. In the smaller communes
accounting practices and informa-ion flows would be improved as new urban
services are introduced. These measures would be introduced by Financial
Departments to be created in the larger towns, or by financial staff at the
prefecture lavel for the smaller towns.
2.8        CID.  The project would support training and materials to
improve the technical capacity of the CID management committee to review
proposals for productive investments submitted by the communes, make
decislons more rapidly, improve accounting and financial management, and
control overheads. Funds for the introduction or improvement of urban
services in several urban communes would be channeled through an Urban
Development Fund to be created within the CID.
2.9        SousinR Finance.  The Savings for Housing Program (PAP)
initiated by the Banques Populaires is expected to direct more than $21
million of their deposite into housing over the period 1989-1994. Support
for this progrea vould iaclude (a) training abroad for Banques Populaires
staff in specialized fields such as mortgage financing and mortgage
insurance; (b) an evaluation study of the program at the end of its third
year; and (c) specific steps in the plannel expansion of the program to
include the Savings Bank (Caisse d'Epargne du Rwanda) and commercial banks.
-- Urban Nanaemeunt
2.10       The project would introduce or assist with progrtma for
strengthening the major sector institutions, intluding the urban communes,
the Caisse Hypothicaire du Rwanda (CUR), and the Public Works Ministry
(MINITRAPE). It would aleo support upgrading of neighborhoods and
construction of housing in Kigali and Butare.
2.11       Ministry of Public Works (MINITRAPE).  MINITRAPE would be
strengthened primarily in its responsibility for sectoral lnvestment
planning (D.2, para. 2.6 above).  Through technical assistance to the
Directorate General of Urban Planning and Housing, urban investment programs
would be prepared and reiewed annually within the PIPIPEP framework.
Program proposals would be generated by both MINITRAPE snd the communes, but
MINITRAPE as the responsible technical ministry would promote coordination
in program design and consistency with sectoral objectives.  The three-year
investment program prepared in this manner would be reviewed by the sectcret
CIC snd transmitted to the Planning Ministry for adjustment as necessary in
the national PIP/PEP.  An updated three-year investment program would be
furnished to IDA annually for review and comment.
2.12       Urban Development De2artments in the Communes.  New structures
for urban communes will be introduced gradually over 4 years in eight cities
and townss Kigali, Butare, eisenyi, Ruhengeri, Cyangugu, Rwamagana,
Ruhango, and Mukamira.  An Urban Development Department, with which a
Technical Bureau and a Land Registry Bureau would usually be associated,



- 17 -
vould enable the communes to more effectively plan and manage the land
within their borders.  To plan for future growth and also the servicing of
existing neighborhoods, communes would prepare Site Development Plass
(croquis d'amènagement), siapler and faster to apply than master plans but
with the same objective of guiding the physical growth of the town. Since
many communes are larger than the Circonscriptions Urbaines within them and
thus contain rural land, and since even some Circonscriptions Urbaines are
partly rural, it ie expected that bourgmestres in preparing and issuing Site
Development Plans can take fuller account of rural-urban tradeoffe in land
use than has been true in the past. Urban communes would also issue permits
to families wnting to build a house on land without formal title, provided
a Site Development Plan has been approved.
2.13       Beyond the improved framework for urban planning, communes would
also take responsibility for land servicing, garbage collection, urban
transport, and maintenance of most urban services. Introduction of these
services would again be phased over the project period, to take account of
the different sizes and capacities of the towns. The case of Kigali
requires speclal efforts to launch a new municipal government. It is
realistic to expect staffing improvements and training to affect
performance, but only over time. Therefore, the Kigali Urban Development
Department would concentrate on garbage collectio. and street maintenance
initially, and would delegate responsibility for upgrading and construction
of new housing to outside developers, especially CHR.
2.14       Communes vould alseo improve securitv of land tenure by issuing
occupancy titles to residents living on land subject to customary rights
(which in Kigali is 93% of the city). This legitimizing of customary
occupancy greatly lessens the need for expropriation. Ulevertheless,
modifications to the expropriation statute are also proposed, se that on the
fow occasions in which expropriation needs to be used, it can be used
effectively. Communes would alseo maintain a land records file (livre
foncier) on each property, not a physical cadastre but a record of physical
features based on a survey (levé manuel du terrain) of the plot. The
objective is to maintain a record of customary rights rather than to
transform them into formal titles.
2.15       Caisse Hypothécaire du Rwanda (CHR).  In the medium to long
term, CHR would place heavy emphasis on making construction and "bridge"
loans and offering mortgage insurance and similar financial services.
Although not a complete break with the past, this represents a significant
change from CHR's foeus on land servicing and housing projects in which it
has acted as both developer and financier.  In a transition phase of 5
years, both financial and land servicing functions would continue to
coexist. A Program-Contract would be concluded between the State and CHR to
define the scope of CHR's mandate, specify the main operating procedures for
each branch of activity, and ensure the separation of the two. Its past
experience with housing programs aned the skills composition of the staff
suggest that CHR should be able adequately to manage the 3 housing programs,
plus one or two small operations of its own. Training and technical
assistance vould on the other hand be required to develop expertise in



- 18 -
mortgage insurance and in constructioA. financing. In addition, CHR would
become a marketing agent for land subdivided by MINITRAPE.
2.16       Housinx Prozrams.  To demonstrate the viability of the new
sector policies, three upgrading and new housing programs would be carried
out in Kigali and Butare. In Kigali, five neighborhoods in the north and
west uf the city vould be upgraded. The other two programs, one in the
Gaculiro district of Kigali and the other at Matyazo in Butare, consist of
plots with basic infrastructure on which residents would build houses with
the assistance of loans from the Banques Populiires.  Communes would be in
charge of the programs, but would delegate management of them to the CHR.
The Kigali upgrading is d.signed principally to introduce a basic street and
drainage network into five neighborhooda where about one fifth of the city's
population lives in houses tightly packed onto steep slopes. In addition to
basic stormwater drainage and construction or improvement of secondary and
tertiary streets, the program includes provision of garbage collection
points, vater standpipes, and public lighting. About 110 families (out of
7,500) would be relocated elsewhere on the upgrading site se that portions
of the new infrastructure can be introduced. Steps in the resettlement of
these families have been outlined in a Resettlement Program satisfactory to
IDA, which was sent to the Bank prior to negotiations. Building permits and
occupancy titles would alao be delivered. The basic plots (mailles
d'accueil) in Kigali and Butare are similar in concept to the servicing of
customary land done from time to time by urban communes and NG0s, but take
the idea further in two respects: they vould be fully legal, and they vould
be undertaken on a larger scale than was previously possible. Basic street,
drainage, vater, and public lighting networks vould be provided, and land
reserves vould be established for future schools and markets. For all three
sites in addition to other areas of Kigali, an on-site sanitation program of
training, advice, and credits for construction and improvement of latrines
has been identified vith the assistance of Bank/UNDP Water Decade staff (see
para. 2.17 below).
2.17       The on-site sanitation program aima to develop sanitation
institutions and practices required for sanitary facilities to be properly
planned, operated, and maintained. In collaboration with a UNDP-financed
project to strengthen the sanitation sub-sector (RWA/89/001), this program
vould (a) construct about 3,000 household latrines in five upgrading
neighborhoods; (b) improve existing latrines by providing vent pipes and
solid floors and by rehabilitating superstructures; (c) carry out
feasibility studies and detailed designs for household5 group-owned, public
and institutional latrines, a system of small-bore severs for sullage
disposal, and soakaway pits; (d) train sanitation staff in the
implementation of a program to sensitize the population on hygiene
practices; and (e) establish a Guarantee Fund for credits from the Banques
Populaires to enable householde to improve or construct sanitation
facilities.



- 19 -
-- Assistance to Artisans and the Construction Industrv
2.18       Assistance to Artisans.  Measures to assist artisans vill build
on successful experiences of the ILO, in the Non-Structured Sector project
(para. 1.26), and of several NGOs. In these efforts as vell as the present
one, the main objective is to support associations of artisans of a given
occupation. Associations with their greater resources and bargaining pover
can be effective in improving the earnings of their members. The project
would support a program to develop workshops or centers where artisans would
have a permanent work location, establishment of material stocks to avoid
breakdowns in supply, and guidance in obtaining equipment and installation
credits.
2.19       Assistance to the Construction Sector.  Actions to assist the
domestic construction industry would aim to improve the quality of local
construction materials, building again on successful progrmss financed for
many years by Swiss and Belgian cooperation, among others. Support would
firet be given to improving the quality of roofing tiles and artisanal
bricks, 35-40% of which at present have imperfections serious enough that
they are discarded. Assistance would also be provided to producers of sawn
vood, particularly in training of sawyers (scieurs de long) and in
marketing, and to masons and other artisans in the building trades. Studies
vill be undertsken of binders in construction other than portland cement,
especially lime and pouzzolane cement, to consolidate existing information
and make a recommendation on the economic potential of these local
materials. Finally, a group of specialists at the National University would
improve the data base and monitor trends in the extremely high cost of
construction in Rwanda in an effort to better exploit the lowest-cost
sources of supply and eventually reduce unit costs.
E.   Cost Estimates
2.20    The total cost of the project is estimated at FRW 5.1 billion (US$
66.2 million). The foreign exchange component of FRW 1.1 billion (US$14.1
million) represents 21.4% of total project cost. Goods and services
procured locally under the project would be subject to a Transactions Tax
(Impot sur le chiffre d'affaires) of 6%, but not to customs duties. On this
basis, taxes amount to FRW 98 million (US$1.3 million), 2% of total project
cost. Base costs are expressed in June 1989 prices and are derived from
prellminary and detailed designa for the physical components and
consultants' feasibility studies for other elements. Salaries of local
staff vere valued on the basis of current civil service base pay and
benefits. Other operating costs supported vithin the project include fuel
and office equipment and materials. Costa for consultant and advisory
sarvices comprising travel, living allowances, and overheads vere estimated
on the basis of recent provision of these services Xn Rwanda. Cost
estimates by year and sub-program are presented in Annex 4 and summarized in
Table 1 below.



W&. INSTIrTIONS STORAIL O ELO        RtiJECT              - 20 -
Table  1
$ummary Coas Table
FRW million                              US6 Million              P erent    Percent
Co pon entu             ------------------------- -------- ----             -----            - -         iorien    Têtai
Local  Forign SfTotal Tomes  Totl          Local Foraien S/Total Taxse  Total    Sxwefeno   Cont
A-1 Local Revenu. COnertion
and Financial anaeseant      84.90  SS.90 118.90   1.00 119.80          1.10   0.44   1.54   0.01   1.56      28.Si       2.81
A-2 Crodit Intercommunal de
Developpeant (CIO)            40.S    9.4   49.9   0.4   80.8          0.6S   0.12   0.6"   0.01   0.65       18.7S       1.05
A-S Mouaing Finance             1419.3   28.5 1447.0   0.0 1447.8          18.43   0.87  18.60   0.00  18.00        2.0C     28.4S
1544.7   71.8 1616.8    1.4 1617.9        20.06   0.98  20.99   0.02  21.01        4.45     81.75
9-1 Urban Devilop_ent
Departomnt.                  646.S  SBO.7 1027.0  24.3 1081.3          8.89   4.94  18.84   0.32  13.68       36.25      20.6S
9-2 Rehabiltlttion of Calme
tbpotb caire du Ruanda (R)    386.6   89.9  76.S   0.6   77.1          0.48   0.62   0.99   0.01   1.00       81.8S       1.65
9-3 Security of U.ban
LUnd Tanure                   28.2  20.8   44.0    0.S  44.8           0.80   0.27   0.87   0.00   0.38       47.0S       0.9«
B-4 Houaing Progrem              809.0  269.a 1078.8  44.6 1122.9          10.61   8.60  14.00   0.68  14.80       24.05     22.0S
1818.1  710.7 2228.8   69.8 2298.6        19.68   9.28  28.91   0.91  29.61       81.05     48.05
C-1 Amaistance to Artisnan        49.9   S7.8   87.7    8.8  91.8           0.08   0.49   1.14   0.08   1.19       41.85      1.85
C-2 AssI-tance to the Construetion
Sector                       148.1   82.1  178.2   2.1  177.8           1.86   0.42   2.28   0.08   2.80      18.1S       S.8
198.0   69.9  262.9  6.9  2S8.8           2.B1   0.91   8.41   0.00   8.49       2R.05      SA.
O   Progra* Management            87.9  68.0  123.7   2.0  12S.7            0.78   0.08   1.61   0.0o   1.60       52.3S      2.SS
TOTAL                    3810.7  918.2 4228.9   79.1 480.0          48.00  11.92  64.92   1.00  88.98       21.8S     84.6S
Contingencise
1. PMiylcl contingenies    166.8  75.9  232.4   7.8  28o.7          2.0S   0.99   8.02   o.o0   8.11       81.75      4.75
2. Prise contingencie.   444.1  98.2  840.3   11.8  6U.6            8.77   1.28   7.02   O.1S   7.16       17.45      10.80
Total Contlngcisa        60.e6  172.1  772.7  18.6  791.9           7.80   2.24  1O.C4   0.24  10.28       21.7S      18.8S
TOTAL PROJUT COST               8911.8 1090.8 8001.6   97.7 8099.8         80.80  14.16  64.96   1.27  66.22       21.45    lO9S



- 21 -
2.21       Physical contingencies amounting to 5S of total base costs have
been estimated at 10Z for housing programs, artisan assistance, support to
the construction sector, as well as for all training programs. No physical
contingencies have been attributed to housing or sanitation loans, technical
assistance, construction supervision, or amortization of vehicles. Price
contingencies for foreign costs are based on recent estimates of
international inflation of 6.3% for 1989, 1.52 for 1990 and 3.6% thereafter.
Price escalation for the local cost component is estimated at 52 for 1989,
and 42 for 1990 and beyond. The cost of technical assistance is expected to
be US$2.1 million for foreign and $0.4 million for local advisers, and
amounts to 4Z of total project costs.
F.   Financint Plan
2.22       Major contributions to project implementation would be made by
IDA and the Banques Populaires. The IDA credit of US$32 million would cover
the foreign exchange costs (except technical advisers financed by UNDP and
other sources) and 392 of local coests. The Banques Populaires would
contribute through implementation of their Savings for Housing (PAP)
program, as well as through credits for building materials and artisan
development. Their contribution is expected to total US$21.5 million over a
five-year period.
Table 2
Financinx Plan
Cofinancier                    Contribution
(US$ million)
IDA                                 32.0
Banques Populaires                  21.5
UNCDF                                2.9
UNDP                                  1.0 *
FAC (France)                          1.1
Government                           5.0
Communes                             2.7
66.2
* Provisional
2.23       The proposed program would also be supported by several
cofinanciers. The UN Capital Development Fund would provide US$2.9 million
for the Gaculiro (Kigali) serviced plot development and for a guarantee fund
for low-cost housing. France, through the Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
(FAC), would finance and carry out the program of land tenure improvements
in the conmmunes (US$1.1 million). UNDP has indicated that it La prepared to
consider the financing of a technical assistance prograi foeusing on



- 22 -
strengthening of local government. Its contribution would be finalized
shortly, and has been provisionally considered to be US$1.0 million. Swiss
Technical Cooperation would assist with implementation of the construction
materials program, thereby ensuring consistency with programs it has been
supporting in this area for several years. The Government counterpart
contribution of US$5.0 million includes taxes, local technical advisers,
salaries and payment of compensation in the resettlement program (see para.
3.13). The communes would gradually assume responsibility for operating
costs of the SDUs and financial departments over the course of the project.
The IDA credit would assume such operating costs (except salaries) for the
first two years, with the communes taking over 50% the third year, 75% the
fourth, and full operating costs thereafter.
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEHENTATION
A. Implementation Arran«ements
3.1        The Ministry of Public Works (MINITRAPE), the urban communes,
and CHR would be the principal implementing agencies. A Program Unit
(Structure de coordination des programmes) located within the Directorate
General of Public Buildings, Urban Planning, and Housing would coordinate
the actions of the implementing agencies. As one example, the Program Unit
would provide guidance to the Urban Development Departments (SDUs) in the
communes on execution of their work programs. General supervision of the
programs sector-wide would be provided through the existing Inter-
Ministerial Coordination Committee (CIC), part of an effective ministerial
review system that has functioned in Rwanda for several years. The
principal accountabilities of agencies carrying out one or more programs are
summarized below. Annex 5 contains additional details on implementation
arrangements.
3.2        Sectoral Action Plans.  Government positions on the growth and
changes it envisages for the urban sector are contained in the Strategy
Statement of Sectoral Development Policy (sea Annex 1). Since the main
elements of these strategies have been extensively debated and enjoy a wide
consensus (see para. 1.19), they are not expected to change materially
during the implementation period. The Action Plans prepared for each urban
sub-sector (se. Annex 1) outline the major mileposts in implementation of
urban strategies. At the time of the yearly review of the urban expenditure
program (see paras. 3.21 and 3.22 below), the Action Plans would aleo be re-
examined and adjustments made as appropriate.
Resource Mobilisation
3.3        Promulgation of appropriate legislation estaNlishing the
Prefecture (municipality) of the City of Kigali, including appointment of
the chiefs of the Financial and SDU Departments, would be accomplished prior
to effectiveness, as would the establishment of similar financial



- 23 -
departments in Butare, Ruhengeri, and Gisenyi. The chiefs of the financial
units in Ruhengeri and Gisenyi would be appointed by December 31, 1990.
These units would be responsible for assessment and collection of local
taxes, introduction of cost accounting, basic expenditure forecasting, and
more generally for improved financial management of all commune activities,
rural or urban. A Property Tax to be established in the four largest
centers (K.igali, Butare, Ruhengeri, and Gisenyi) would be the chief method
of recovering the costs of urban services. Although the Property Tax would
not be introduced in the four smaller towns (Cyangugu, Rwamagana, Ruhango,
and Mukamira) in the next several years, financial management would be
strengthened in these towvs through improvements in record keeping,
accounting, and basic financial planning. The adoption of cost recovery
mechanisms acceptable to IDA would be a condition of disbursement for civil
vorks.
3.4        CID vould make loans to communes for productive investments.
For the urban sector programs CID would act as a fiduciary, directing loan
funde from the Governient to the communes.  CID would administer these loans
in a separate account entitled Fund for Urban Development (Fonds
d'amanagement urbain). Establishment of this Fund would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit. The capacity of CID to evaluate
investment proposals from the communes would be strengthened through the
supply of materials and training of staff. CID activities would also
benefit from the assistance of technical and financial advisers in the
communes.
3.5        Financial resources for low-cost housing would initially come
from the Banques Populaires, who introduced their PAP (savings for housing)
program in July 1988. This program may later extend to the Caisse d'Epargne
du Rwanda and to commercial banks such as the Banque Cou erciale du Rwanda,
both of whom have expressed interest in the housing finanace program.  The
Banques Populaires would alseo continue their existing loan program for
artisan promotion and for development of the construction industry. No
external funding is required for these programs, which would mobilize
domestic resources exclusively.  Actions financed from external sources
would include training in mortgage finance for Banques Populaires staff and
an evaluation study of the degree of succesas of the program. The Banques
Populaires would discuss their Cofinancing and Implementation Plan for the
PAP program prior to these disbursements being made.
Urban Nanatement
3.6        Urban Development Departments (SDUs) that would be established
in the larger cities and towns would be the chief means of managing growth
in communes that are partly or wholly urbanized. The SDUs would be composed
of an Urban Planning Division that would handle questions of growth, land
subdivision for new housing and industry, and land registry, and a Technical
Division responsible for maintenance of street networks and refuse
collection. In Kigali the SDU vill be a separate entity, while in Butare,
Ruhengeri, and Gisenyi the Urban Planning Inspector of the prefecture vill
aslo be Chief of the SDU. In the four amaller towns only the urban planning



- 24 -
and land registry functions would be introduced during the project period,
and would be carried out by the Urban Planning Inspector of the prefecture.
The more expensive technical services would be introduced later, when the
local revenue capacity improves.
3.7        Revised and simplified building permits, site development plans,
and land registry procedures would be carried out by the SDUs as a means of
exercising legal influence over the urbanization process that has up to now
occurred outaide the law. In addition to the legitimizing of settled
neighborhoods, the new measures would direct future urban growth since all
new settlements would require an approved site development plan. Approval
of the relevant legislation or regulations pertaining to these measures
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit.
3.8        For the SDUs the critical factor in implementation vill be to
try to maintain a close match between the programs of service provision and
the communes' capacity to finance the program and recover costs. Table 3
below shows, for example, that refuse collection would be managed by Kigali
beginning the second year of the project, while it is foreseen only in the
fourth year for Ruhengeri and Gisenyi and not at all for the amaller towns:
Table 3
Table 3                              SDUst Catetory cf City and Year
Service                           of Introduction of Service
I      II    III     IV
Urban PlanninglSite Development
Plans                                     1        1     2       3
Land Registration/Tenuref
ExpropriatiouIBuilding Permits            1        1     2       3
Property TaxlLocal Finance/Cost
Recovery                                  1        1     2       --
Communal Financial Management             1        1     2        3
Refuse Collection                         2        3     4        --
Street Maintenance                        3        --    _   --
I     Kigali
Il   Butare
III   Ruhengeri, Gisenyi
IV    Cyangugu, Rwamagana, Ruhango, Mukamira
3.9        CHR would confine its activities over the next five years to
those of a land servicing agant, on behalf of the communes or MINITRAPE, and
of a financial intermediary specializing in construction loans. The
conditions governing these activities are spelled out in a Program Contract
to be signed by the Government and CHR. The terms of the Program-Contract
vere reviewed at negotiations, and signature by the Government and CHR is a
condition of disbursement for the housing programs (see also Annex 10). On



- 25 -
behalf of the Prefecture of the City of Kigali and of the Commune of Ngoma
(Butare), CHR would act as delegated executing agency (maitre d'ouvrage
déligua) for three housing programs supported under the project (para.
3.11). Agreement has been obtained at negotiations that CHR would establish
a unit to monitor these programs by December 31, 1989. It would also act as
selling agent, on behalf of MINITRAPE, for at least 80% (during the first
two years) of land parcels subdivided by MINITRAPE. On the financial side
of its operations, CHR would engage in construction financing, establish
guarantee funds as required for operations in the sector, and initiate a
program of mortgage insurance. Assurances were also obtained at
negotiations that by December 31, 1990, CHR will implement policies to
control operating expenses. According to the Program-Contract between CHR
and the Government, these policies are expected to result in operating
expenses increasing at no more than 5Z per year.
3.10       The communes would be responsible for the establishment and
regular updating of the land records file that is critical both for the
delivery of occupancy titles and for collection of the Property Tax.
Training and seminars for corimunal and ministry officials would also be
conducted. These measures ould be applied selectively, even within a
commune, so that they would .pply only to the urbanized portions.
3.11       For the new housing and upgrading programs managed by CHR,
street tmprovements, drainage works, and other major civil works would be
carried out by private firms. Installation and improvement of vater,
electricity, and public lighting networks would be the responsibility of the
national vater and electricity authority ELECTROGAZ. Housing would be
constructed or improved with the assistance of artisans ar4 micro-
enterprises, and would be financed by loans from the Banques Populaires and
by personal savinga.
3.12       On-Site Sanitation ProRram.  Sanitation problema in the
upgrading neighborhoods of Kigali have occurred mainly in the densely
settled areas. Water-borne sewerage is unsuited to these low income
districts. The project would therefore support an on-site sanitation
program in these areas and elsewhere in Kigali, consisting of construction
of 1,700 household latrines and soakaway pits and improvement of an
additional 3,500 existing latrines.  For the new housing sites in Kigali and
Butare, construction of latrines would be included in the housing loans made
by the Banques Populaires. In other cases the Banques Populaires are
prepared to loan for 100% of the cost of the latrine, provided only that the
recipient demonstrate a reliable savings pattern in the PAP or similar
program for 5-6 months. A Guarantee Fund equal to one third of expected
Banques Populaires loans for latrines would be located at the CHR.
Establishment of this guarantee fund is a condition of disbursement for on-
site san'tation activities. On behalf of the communes, the Directorate
Ganeral of Water (DGW) of the Ministry of Public Works, Energy, and Water
would supervise construction procedures, carry out training and
sensitization programa in the use of the latrines, and prepare larger-scale
projects for future implementation. Where latrines are part of a larger
loan for house improvement or construction in the context of the upgrading
and serviced plot programs, CHR vould manage the construction procesa



-26 -
directly. Research on the development of local materials for latrine
construction and advisory support and training for artisans and contractors
would be undertaken as part of the construction industry and artisan
programs (see paras. 3.14 - 3.15). Additional details on the on-site
sanitation program are presented in Annex 9.
3.13       Resettlement ProRram.  About 110 families (out of 7,500) in the
upgrading neighborhoods would need to be relocated in order to improve
drainage and street accesa in the interior of the area. A Resettlement
Program satisfactory to IDA was reviewed at appraisal and sent to the Bank
prior to negotiations. It provides for equivalent housing for these
families in the same neighborhoods (see Map 20888) and compensation for
housing constructed, plot improvement, and land rights.  The cost of the
resettlement program is included in the project.  The portion of the cost
devoted to compensation payments is included in the Government counterpart
contribution, while the cost of street improvements, vater, and other
infrastructure at the relocation site would be financed by IDA and other
donors in the same manner as such works are financed elsewhere in the
program.
Artisan and Construction Industry Promotion
3.14       The development of artisan work sites and the establishment of
materials  stocks are designed to meet the specific demands of the artisans
as they arise.  No pro-determination of sites or quantities of materials has
therefore been made. Costs have been based on a total of 8 artisan sites (6
in Kigali and 2 in Butare) of 2,500 m2 each accommodating a total of 40
artisans, but vould vary according to the requeste received from artisan
groupa and an evaluation by thé artisan federation KORA. KORA would als
train artisans in order to improve existing techniques and procedures.
These actions are complementary to an artisan assistance project financed by
the ILO which aleo aims to improve the workplaces of artisans and their
technical skills. As a condition of disbursement, an Implementation
Agreement would be signed between MINITRAPE, the urban communes concerned,
and the $mplementing agency for execution of this component.
3.15       According to present proposals, two NGOs supported by Swiss
Technical Cooperation would be responsible for actions in support of
brick/tile makers and producers of sawn wood. CAII would train and support
the brick/tile makers in order to improve the quality of artisan-made bricks
and tiles, install and operate improved kilns, and strengthen marketing. In
a s$milar manner, AEFB would be in charge of measures to improve sawn wood
products and to establish centers for their distribution. Both institutions
benefit from effective support from Sviss Technical Cooperation, which has
many years of experience with such programm in Rwanda. Other actions would
be carried out by the Housing Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works.
These include assistance to masons, carpenters and other artisans in the
construction trades as they construce vash-houses and other public
facilities, a study of the potential of binders such as pouzzolane cement
and lime, and an "observatory" of the component parts of construction costs
(materials, labor, etc.) to determine the best means of reducing them.



- 27 -
Prolect Management
3.16       The Program Unit (Structure de coordination des programmes)
would be located in the Directorate General of Public Buildings, Urban
Planning, and Housing of the Ministry of Public Works. It would consist of
5 higher-level staff, including the Project Director, and 5 support staff.
Two expatriate advisers would support the Program Unit staff, including an
Adviser to the Project Director and a specialist in sectoral investment
programming (see paras. 3.21 - 3.22). Overall guidance would be provided by
the Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee (CIC) responsible for housing
and urban development.  The higher-level staff of the Program Unit would be
organized so as to give maximmm attention to monitoring the startup of SDUs
in each of the touns.  The Technical Officer would be exclusively concerned
with such questions, whiLle the Program Officer would assist the director in
coordination and monitoring of other programs. Job des^riptions of
technical advisers to the Program Unit as vell as to the implementing
agencies have been prepared and are availeble in the Project File.
3.17       Although the Program Unit should basically coordinate the
actions of others, ln some instances it would carry out an action directly.
This is the case for a portion of the construction sector program (see para.
3.15), and also for studies as yet unidentified, a provision for which has
been included in project costs. The Program Unit would also be responsible
for an Implementation Study foeusing on application of the Government
decision to divest itself of its public housing units.
B. Flow of Funds
3.18       The Government would make the proceeds of the IDA credit and of
otLer contributions available to the implementing agencies either as grants
or as subsidiary loans. Financing from FAC, UNCDF, and UNDP is on a grant
basis.  All contributions would be placed in Project Accounts at the
Treasury, from which payments would be authorized by the Program Unit.  In
addition to a Project Account, in local currency, a Special Accouat in
foreign exchange would be established at the Central Bank (BNR) for the IDA
credit. All project expenditures would be subject to the prior
authorisation of the Program Unit.
3.19       The IDA contribution of US$32 million would be directed to
implementing agencies as followvt
(a)  The recoverable portion of the cost of the SDUs, local
taxationIfinancial management, land registry, and housing
program (water and electricity excluded), a total of US$22.3
million, would be lent by Government to the CID for onlending to
the various communes.  The subsidiary loan to the CID would be
at 52 interest with a maturity of 7 years including 2 years of
grace for equipment and materials and 18 years including 3 years
of grace for civil works. The exchange risk would be borne by
the Government. CID would lend US$21.6 million equivalent to
the communes at 6% interest with the same maturities and grace



- 28 -
periods. The 1% spread would be sufficient to cover the costs
of CID in administering the subsidiary loans. The remaining
US$0.7 mil'lion represents oper.ting costs of CID whi.h would be
recovered through the CID margin on loans and would be repaid by
CID to the State. Although the onlending interest rates are
somewhat lover than prevailing commercial rates irn Rwanda, which
are currently at least 9%, they renresent a significant step
toward full financial viability for the communes.
(b) A second subsidiary loan of US$1.2 million would be made to
ELECTROGAZ at 6% interest with a maturity of 18 years including
3 years of grace f'r installation of water and electricity
networks in the upgrading neighborhoods and sites for serviced
plots.
(c)  The Government would make avallable the remaining US$8.5 million
of the IDA credit in the form of grants for components whose
costs would not be recovered. These include training,
management of the on-site sanitation program, construction of
public latrines, SDU investments Li the 3 secondary centers, SDU
investments and operating costs in the 4 smaller towns, studiss,
and project management.
3.20       Repayments by the CID of the subsidiary loans made to it by the
Government would be deposited into an account at the BNR that vould
constitute a Housing Fund. With operating provisions acceptable to IDA,
this Fund would be established by December 31, 1990. It would be managed by
IINITRAPE and would serve mainly to finance investments in basic
Infrastructure and related services as a complement to funds made available
by the banking system for the construction of housing.  It is expected to
become a permanent source of loanable funds in the sector, lending either
through the CID or more directly for investments in urban development.
C.    Monitordna of Exienditure Protrams
3.21       There is much ground to cover before an investment program in
the urban sector is realized that is both internally consistent and
externally in agreement with national development priorities. Investments
carried out during the Third Plan period (1982-1986) and programmed in the
Fourth Plan (1990-1994) are described in Annex 2. Many projects as yet have
only approxinate cost estimates, and some have been in search of funding for
several years. In the transition to the full PIPIPEP (se. para. 1.2), the
Planning Ministry is taking the lead in encouraging a more detailed program
presentation, ranking of priorities, and weeding out of inappropriate items.
This will require a sustained effort to (a) evaluate the budgetary and
foreign e.:change implications of proposed programs, and (b) review their
technical merits and consistency with sectoral objectives. Although the
Planning Ministry is improving its capacity to carry out the first of these
evaluation tasks, it is not equipped to do the second. Decisions on whether
proposed expenditures reflect affordable construction standards, full cost
recovery, and other objectives of the urban sector are the responsibility of
the Public Works Ministry. Consistency checks and quality control will be



- 29 -
more difficult to carry out than before, however, nov that the communes as
vell as the Ministry vill be preparing lnvestment and expenditure programs.
3.22       The proposed project furnishes the opportunity to set priorities
and establish effective review procedures for all elements of the sectoral
expenditure program. First, assurances vere obtained at negotiations that
an updated three-year investment program for the urban sector would be
prepared by November 30 each year, and that IDA would be asked to review and
comment on its contents. Second, the Program Unit would have primary
responsibility for conducting the technical review of this investment
program. As a point of contact for all agencies and ministries active in
the sector, the Program Unit would be the forum for exchange of information
and review of locally-prepared as vell as centrally-prepared projects.
rAird, an expatriate technical adviser in investmentlexpenditure programming
would strengthen the Program Unit in these functions over a 2-4 year period,
with the aim of making the urban expenditure program fully consistent with
sectoral objectives before it is forwarded to the Planning Ministry.
D. Ctaffint and Training
3.23       Decentralization of urban services implies decentralization of
the means of providing the eervices.  At present, the communes do not have
sufficient staff to accomplish the tasks set out for the SDUs and financial
departments. The Commune of Nyarugenge (Kigali) has a staff of 123,
conaisting of commune employees and MINITRAPE staff assigned to the commune
largely for refuse collection. Secondary towns rely or, prefectural and
ministry staff, which can b. adequate in number but lacking in technical
capacity and not always available to the town itself. As vould be expected,
the majority of staff for strengthening of the capacity of communes to deal
with urban development vill come from MINITRAPE.
3.24       The staffing requirements of the communes are shown in Table +.
It £s estimated at present that a total of 387 persons of all levels and
qualifications are naeded to carry out the reform programs, of which 168 are
already available to the communes. Of the remaining 219 staff needed, 146
are expected to be transferred or seconded from MINITRAPE, as described in
the table. An additional 35 vould be hired as graduates of University
courses or directly from the private sector, 3 would come from the Ministry
of Finance or the private sector, and 3 would be expatriate volunteers hired
internationally. The remaining 32, mainly laborers, would be hired dirc.ztly
by the communes.  In all cases the staff leaving the specific MINITRAPE
directorates or divisions vould be a amall proportion of already existing
staff in the Ministry of that level and qualifications.
3.25       Apart from the urban communes, CHR vould require 1 municipal
engineer and 1 sanitary engineer for supervision of the housing programs.
Recruitment of these individuals vith acceptable qualificatiors is a
condition of disbursement for the housing programs. The Program Unit
(MINITRAPE) requires 5 higher-level staff, including the Director, and 5
support staff. Because of their importance, appointment of 4 of the 5
higher-level staff (Director, Technical riJfficer, Administrative and



- 30 -
Table 4
StaffTln of Urban Communes:
KiT i1 end Thrs Secondary Conters
Personnel Required                        Extsttng Staff
Number              Seconder'               Remaining     StaffIng
Functlon                      Rcul red      Kia lt   C nt.rs'/    Total   Reouir mant        SOU.!ce
Chief SOU Kligll                      1                                              1           d/
Chief SoU a centersb/                 -                                              -
Ch1ef Urban Planning                  1                                              1           ei
Divtsion SW. Kigali
Urban Planners SDU                    4                                              4           f/
Chief Tuchnical Services
Division SDU Kgelli                 1                                              1           d/
Technieat ServIces
Stsff SDU                          10          4           -           4           a
Chitf Financlul Affaire, Kigali       1                                                          h/
ChTef Local Flnence DiviTson,         1                                              1           t/
Klgall
Chlef Local Taxation Division,        i                                                          i
Financlil staffO/                    70         20          1Y 8s                   85           Ji
Expatrtete Voluiteers SWU                                    a                                   k/
Head, Malntenance Studies, Klgail    1                                               1/
Slte Supervisor , Klgeli              2                                              2           '/
Head, Supplieso  nd Materials         1                                              1           m/
Topographers                          6                                              S           n/
Mechanics, Drivers                   15          4           2          ô            9           9/
Manager, Water Standpipes, Kigalt    1                                               1           d/
Secretarles                           4                                              4           o/
Aides, Laborers, end Maintenance   286         103          20         123         142           Pt
Staff
TOTAL          887        131           87       18          219
oi Butare, Rubengeri, end GTsenyl.
b/ Function performed by Urban Plonning Inspector of Prefecture.  May be recruited however
beginnlng yedr 8.
c/ Accountants, cauhiera, end tax collector..          d/ MINITRAPE or recruitment.
o/ Architect-plonner from Urban Planning Directorate, UINITRAPE.
f/ From Urban Planning Dlrectorate and Ponts et Chaussées Directorate, MINITRAPE.
g/ Transfer from Ponts et Chaussées Directorate, MINITRAPE.
h/ Ministry of Finance end Economy or private sector. It/ Ministry of Finance and Economy.
J/ Unlversity co.rses end prlvate sector.               k/ Internatlonsl recruiteent.
1/ Transfer from Urban Roada Division, Ponts et Chaussées Directorate, MINITRAPE.
m/ Transfer from Wurkshops Division, Ponts et Chaussées Directorate, UINITRAPE.
ni Transfer from Topographlc Section, Urban Planning Directorate, MINITRAPE.
o/ Transfer from Directorate Ceneral of Public Buildings, Urban Plonning end Nousing, MINI7RAPE.
p/ Minimum 110 froc Urban Ronde Division, Ponts et Chaussoes Dtroctorate, MINITQAPE.  Remainder to
be recruited by Communs.



- 31 -
Financial Officer, and Program Officer) cf the Program Unit is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit. Expatriate volunteers would be
recruited from three categories of NGOss (a) volunteer groupe especially of
German, Dutch, and French nationals currently active in Rvanda; (b) NGOs
specialized in the sector such as Architectes sans Frontières; and (c)
broadly-based NGOs such as Terre des Hommes or EURO-Action Accord, with
experience in project organization.
3.26       A total of nearly 600 person-months of training would be
provided for managers and staff of the SDUs, financial divisions of the
communes, CID, land regiatry staff in the communes, and CHR. SDU urban
planning and technical services managers, including Urban Planning
Inspectors of ths Prefectures, would be trained abroad for 4-6 monthe each.
For Inspectors this training would include not only those with immediate
responsibility for urban services (such as in the 3 secondary centers and 4
amaller towns), but also those likely to be dealing with such problems in
the near future. Technical services staff and topographers would be trained
at the Murambi Training Center in Gitarama, which is supervlsed by the
Ministry of Civil Service (Fonction Liblique). Site supervisors, mechanics,
drivers, and the head of maintenance studies in Kigali would each undergo a
3-4 month training program at the Ponts et Chaussées Training Center, which
la operated by MINITRAPE and partially financed by UNDP and German
Cooperation. The water standpipes manager would receive 4 months of
training at ELECTROGAZ. The training program will also support the training
of local staff in proecurement and disbursement methods. Agreements with the
local training institutions and with ELECTROGAZ to this effect would be
signed no later than March 31, 1990, for training to begin immediately
thereafter.
3.27       Training of financial managers and staff of the communes would
be conducted somewhat differently.  As with SDUs, financial managers would
be trained abroad for 4-6 monthe. For accountants, tax collectors, and
other financial staff, however, local training institutions are few. The
Higher Institute of Public Finance, established with support from IDA
Technical Assistance Credit 1565, is in the formative stages and has
significant potential for training of accountants and financial management
specialiats in the communes and the CID in the later years of the project.
Until then, reliance would bd placed on courses and seminars organized by
the National University and training on the job by the technical advisers to
the communes. For the CID, the Director and three senior staff would be
trained abroad for a total of 6.5 person-months.
3.28       Training and seminars in management of land records would be
conducted under the auspices of FAC (France). With regard to CHR, the
practical training offered by the expatriate engineer would be the only
complement necessary to the skills of existing CHR staff on the housir.g
side. Of the CHR staff in financial intermediation, 3 would participate in
seminars on mortgage insurance organized by a Canadian housing finance
agency. The same number of Banques Populaires staff would benefit from
training organized by a Canadian bank.



- 32 -
E. Procuremeat
Table 5
Procurement ArranRtements
(US$ million)
Not         Total
ICB        LCB     Other     Applicable  Cost
A          hi
Civil Works              15.4        2.0     5.4                    22.8
(12.4)      (1.6)   (4.2)                  (18.2)
Equipment and Vehieles   3.5                                         3.5
(2.6)                                      (2.6)
Office equipment and
materials                           0.7     0.5                      1.2
(0.4)   (0.3)                   (0.7)
Credits                                                    21.5     21.5
(0.5)    (0.5)
Training                                     5.0                     5.0
(4.0)                   (4.0)
Technical Assistance                         2.6                     2.6
(0.0)                   (0.0)
Consulting Services e1                       2.2                     2.2
(1.8)                  (1.8)
Operating Expenses                           1.1            4.7      5.8
(0.8)         (2.9)    (3.7)
Compensation, Resettlement                                  1.1      1.1
(0.0)    (0.0)
PPF Advances                                                0.5      0.5
(0.5)    (0.5)
TOTAL                    18.9        2.7    16.8           27.8     66.2
(15.0)      (2.0)  (11.1)          (3.9)   (32.0)
ai   Direct purchase, force account, and hiring of consultants.
hi   Includes ineremental operating costs and salaries and refinancing of
PPF advances.
ci   Studies and construction supervision.
Note: Figures in parenthoses indicate amouats to be financed by IDA.



- 33 -
3.29       Contracta for an aggregate value of US$ 15.4 million equivalent
for street and drainage improvements and other civil works would be avarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines. To the extent practical, contracte would be grouped to permit
efficient procurement. For purpoaes of evaluation and comparison of bide,
under international competitive bidding, a preference of 152 or the value of
the applicable customs duties, whichever la lower, wvould be allowed for
materials and equipment manufactured in Rwanda in which the proportion of
value added locally is et least 20 percent. For civil vorks contracta,
under international competitive bidding, qualified domestic civil works
contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5Z over the bid
price of competing foreign contractors. Because the works are not overly
complex, prequalification of contractors would not be required. Review of
bid documents prior to contract avard would be required for civil works
contracta greater than US$250,000 and for equipment contracta greater than
US$75,000. Other contracta would be subject to selective post-avard review.
The executing agencies would manage procurement for the actions they carry
out, and the Program Unit would be responsible for ensuring uniform
application of procurement procedures.
3.30   Contracta for the Matyazo serviced site and for SDU buildings (US$0.7
and 1.3 million equivalent respectivelg) would be awarded through local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. In Rwanda, under local
competitive bidding, foreign firms are eligible to participate and to
receive payments in foreign currency. The small aise of theae contracta
vhich are not likely to attract bide from firms outaide Rwanda, justifies
the use of LCB. Additional works that are not likely to interest foreign
firme, including artisan work sites and on-site sanitation (US$1.8 million),
vould be carried out by artisans and amall contractors under local shopping
arrangements or negotiated contracta.  Water and electricitylpublic lighting
(US$1.2 million) would be installed at the upgrading and serviced plot sites
by ELECTROGAZ, which is capable of installing the networks economically on a
force account basis.
3.31       Consultants for training, technical assistance, and studies vould
be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Incremental operating
expenses for the project include staff salaries and vehicle amortization
(US$4.7 million) for which procurement is inapplicable. The remaining
operating expenses (US$1.1 million) are for fuel, spare parts, and supplies
which would be procured from dealers on the basis of quotations obtained
locally. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5 above.



- 34 -
F. Diabursement Arrangements
3.32       The table below gives the a2wunts allocated in the IDA credit to
each disbursement category:
Table 6
IDA Credit
allocated         Z of expenditure
CateRory                          in US$ million        to be financed
Civil works                           12.5             80%
Equipment, vehicles, furniture         3.2             100% of foreign
and material stocks for                                expenditures and 502
artisans                                               of local expenditures
Operating costs                        5.2             952 of expenditure in
first and second years
50% of expenditures
in third year
25% of expenditures
in fourth year
Credits (artisans)                     0.4             65% of expenditures
Training                               4.4             100% of foreign
expenditires and 502
cf local expenditures
Consulting services                    0.9             100l   of foreign
and studies                                            expenditures and 50%
of local expenditures
Refunding of PPF                       0.5             100%
Unallocated                            4.9
32.0
3.33       The schedule of estimated diabursements given in Annex 6 is based
on the disbursement profile for urban projects in Africa. Adjustments are
reflected in the disbursement profile to take into consideration the initial
deposit in the Special Account and refinancing of the PPF. Operating costs
(mainly fuel and some spare parts) would be financed up to an annual limit
of US$1.3 million.



- 35 -
3.34       To ensure prompt availability of funds for the program, a
separate Special Account (revolving fund) would be established in US dollars
in the Central Bank (BNR), with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million.  The
Special Account opening balance was calculated as the equïvalent of four
months of the IDA share of eligible expenditures in the proposed credit.
The Goverrment would also open a Program Advance Account at the BNR with an
initial deposit of FRW 4n million by the date of credit effectiveness at the
latest. The balance in tais account would be at least FRW 40 million at the
start of each quarter during implementation.
3.35       All diabursements would be fully documented, except for
expenditures of less than US$30,000 equivalent. These expenditures would be
made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) certified by the Program Unit.
Supporting documentation for SOEs vould be r.tained by the Program Unit and
made available for IDA review during supervision missions. In the case of
pre-financing by the Program Advance Account, the reimbursement requesta
would not be less than US$50,000 equivalent. The Special Account, in US$,
would be used to pay all expenditures of the project. Transactions for
thes. expenditures would be effected using the exchange rate of the day of
payment. Requests for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted to IDA each month. The Program Unit would forvard withdrawal
requests to the Treasury for review and approval prior to dispatch to IDA.
G.  Accouatinx and Auditinx
3.36       Separate project accouants would be established for the
municipalities of Kigali, Butare, Ruhengeri, Gisenyi, the Caisse
Hypoth&caire du Rwanda (CHR), CID, and the coordinating Program Unit.
Consolidated accouats would be maintained by the Program Unit for
expenditures concerning all elements of the program. An accrual accounting
system vould be introduced in the Prefecture of the City of Kigali and the
Commune of Ngoma (Butare).
3.37       All implementing agencies vill be required to prepare financial
etatements of project transactions shortly after the close of the Goverrment
fiscal year. Auditor's opinions on financial statements of implementing
agencies as a whole and the project transactions in particular would be
prepared by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA and submitted to the
Goverrment and to IDA within four months of the end of the Government fiscal
year. The auditor's opinions will be required to contain a special
reference to SOEs (para. 3.35) confirming that the claimed expenditures were
used for the purpose for which they were intended.  The audit report of the
Program Unit will include a separate analysis of the use of IDA funds under
th. Special Accouant.  The firet audits would b. carried out for fiscal year
1990 for all implementing agencies.



-36 -
R.   Supervision. Evaluation. and Mouitoring
3.38       Within the Program Unit, the Director, Technical Officer, and
Administrative and Financial Officer would be mainly responsible for
monitoring the progress of the project in achieving its objectives. The
Program Unit would also supervise execution of three studies designed to
broaden the impact of specific measures TVie first of these is a Tax Burden
Study, which would identify the cumulative impact on families of central and
local taxes with more accuracy than has so far been possible. The results
of this study would help the Government decide on possible changes at a
later stage în other local taxes, especially the Head Tax (CPM) and the Tax
on Cattle (TGB). Second, a study of the macroeconomic and financial
implications of the PAP (housing finance) program would be carried out in
tne third year of the program. This study would establish the conditions
under which the program would be expanded to include full participation by
other commercial banks and savings institutions. Third, an evaluation study
conducted in the fourth year of the program would help CHR assess its
experience with land servicing and financial intermediation in order for CHR
and its shareholders to establish its program after the 5-year transition
period.
3.39       IDA would devote about 85 staff-weeks to supervision over the
six-year implementation period. This would be concentrated mainly in the
first three years and would diminish thereafter as the Program Unit and
executing agencies gain experience. Although attention would be given
throughout the period to the progress of the specific programs described in
this report, emphasis would be placed on the sectoral expenditure programs
as a whole. That is, supervision would be more concerned with
implementation of a consistent and justified expenditure program for the
sector, tban with implementation only of the specific actions identified.
Staff requirements for supervision include a financial analyst, economist,
and urban planner, plus inputs from specialists in public land management,
housing finance, and artisan!small enterprise promotion.
3.40       The Program Unit vould prepare progress reports each quarter on
the physical, financial, and socio-economic aspects of the program. These
reports would review the performance of implementing agencies, present key
indicators of progress in fulfillment of program goals, and identify major
problems with recommended solutions. A Project Completion Report would be
prepared and sent to IDA vithin six months of the close of disbursements.
IV. FINANCIAL FLOWS AND COST RECOVERY
A. The Bankint System and the Banques Populaires
4.1        Rwanda's financial system consiste of the following institutions:
the Central Bank (BNR), three commercial banks (Banque Commerciale du
Rwanda, Banque de Kigali, and Banque Continentale Africaine - Rwanda -
BACAR), a network of cooperative banks (the Banques Populaires), a Savings



- 37 -
association (Caisse d'Epargne du Rwanda), a mortgage bank (CHR), and a
development bank (Banque Rwandaise de Développement -BRD). All these
institutions have headquarters in Kigali but some of them have branches
elsewhere in the country. With the exception of the commercial banks, all
the other institutions are totally, or to a significant extent, Government-
owned. Financial institLtions are supervised by BNR which requires them to
submit regular financial statements and monthly information regarding their
activities, and sets strict criteria for their lending operations.
4.2        BRD is the most important long-term lender, accounting for about
70% of the FRW 3.4 billion (US$44 million) long-term credit outstanding at
the end of December 1987. Starting mid-1987, two important changes occurred
in the banking sector. First, the BNR revised downward the interest rate
structure of term lending, which nov ranges from 9-122 as compared to as
much as 142 earlier. Second, the banking system can be lese specialized
since they are allowed to finance term loans including those for housing.
Commercial banks' term lending is limited to a maximum determined by their
net vorth plus deposits of more than a year's duration minus fixed assete,
equity participation, potential bad debts and losses. Among commercial
banks, the Banque Commerciale du Rwanda is the most active in medium-term
lending, holding about 30b of total medium-term credit outstanding at the
end of December 1987.
4.3        Short-term credit, mainly to amall enterprises in commerce,
transport and construction, is provided to a limited extent by the
commercial banks and by the Banques Populaires. The Banques Populaires are
also active in term lending, vith most of their loans going to individuals
for housing improvements and car purchases.
4.4        With recent changes in the financial sector aimed at creating a
more competitive environment for housing (extension of loan maturities), the
Banques Populaires are expected to play a large role. Their activity has
expanded rapidly daring the last five years. The Banques Populaires opened
their 100th branch in 1988.  Their participants have gone froa  48,215 in
1982 to 177,014 in 1987. The Banques Populaires network vas able to
mobilize FRW 2,583 million as of December 31, 1987, 3,7 times deposits of
1982, a considlerable amount of cash on hand to be employed in the Ruandese
economy, the housing sector being a good candidate for the use of these
funds. In fact, the Banques Populaires devote about 35 percent of their
resources to the construction sector. The strengthening of CHR and its
technical expertise in the field vould help the Banques Populaires to be
more active in the housing business. As far as latrines and low-cost
sanitation are concerned, the General Directorate of Water in the Ministry
of Public Works vould provide the necessary experience. The Guarantee fund
included in this component vill also encourage the Banques Populaires ta
promote this sub-sector. The Banques Populaires vere restructured in 1985
by creating three departmentss Administration, Finance and Development. A
great deal of emphasis is put on training of the staff in the country and
abroad as vell as a large campaign of famillarization for the Banques
Populaires in the whole country. The Banques Populaires have already been
successful in vorking vith artisans and artisan cooperatives (KORA). The



- 38 -
table below shows the key indicators of the Banques Populaires and their
evolution between 1982 and 1987.
Table 7
BANQUES POPULAIRES
Key Indicators
--- -------------Actual------------------
1982      1983     1984       1985      1986    1987
Number of BP branches      63        64        72        79        88       95
Increase in Z                       2%      13%        10%       11%      8%
Participants           48,215    60,399   77,035    99,585   128,246  177,014
Increase in Z                      25%      28%        29%       29%     38%
Deposits
(in million/frw)         808      1,029    1,247      1,617     2,088    2,583
Increase in %                      27%      21%        30%       29%     24%
Loans (in millionlfrw)   394        446      597        800       967    1,334
Increase in Z                      13%      34%        34%       21%     38%
Total balance sheet       965     1,245    1,530      1,992     2,474    3,217
(in million/frw)
Increase in %                      29%      23%        26%       29%     30%
Share capital               13       17       23         31        42        56
(in million/frw)
Increase in Z                      31%      35%        35%       35%     33%
Sourcet Annual Reports



- 39 -
B. CID and Communal Finances
4.5        Financial resources of the communes are obtained from communal
taxes, borrovings (from CID or banks), revenue from communal assets, and
grants. Communal taxes can be of various types: minimum personal tax (CPM),
cattle tax, taxes on economic activity, special levies and other revenues.
The external resources available to the communes consist essentially of
contributions from the central goverument or other public organizations, and
loans. Contributions from the central government are granted in connection
with specific investment outlays (mainly for construction).
4.6        The Communal Development Fund (Fonds de Développement Communal,
FDC) vas set up in 1977 with two appropriate goals: (i) to effect
equalization among communes in order to reduce territorial disparities, and
(ii) to give communes access to credit, either in the form of direct loans
or by establishing a Guarantee Fund to enable communes to borrov from banks.
Rules vere laid down regarding the allocation of resources between grants,
loas and guarantees according to their origin, but these rules have been
observed only in part. Of FDC operations financed out of its own funds, 50
percent vere grants (compared vith a target of 20 percent), 46 percent loans
(compared vith 50 percent), and 4 percent to the Guarantee Fund (compared
vith 30 percent). The high proportion of investment (70 percent) vas
largely for administrative facilities (mainly communal offices). A
reconstitution of financial flows from the inception of FDC through the end
of 1985 shows that the Fund received approximately 1 billion FRW of which 40
percent vas derived from the commune contributions, 51 percent from the
Goverament budget, and 9 percent from such external donors as Swiss
Cooperation, USAID and French Cooperation (FAC). The FDC had difficulties
in distributing its operations among loans, grants and guarantees as
prescribed by the Decree-Law. Its administrative and technical capabilities
vere also inadequate, especially vith regard to monitoring and evaluation of
communal projects.
4.7        A Law establishing a new entity (Crédit Intercommunal de
Diveloppement - CID) took effect on February 1, 1989, date of the
publication in the Official Journal. CID vill be administratively and
financially autonomous under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance.
The CID structure, management and financing will be similar to a private
entity vith a Board of Directors and a Managing Director having full
authority over the institution's operations. Its initial capital vill be
FRW 250 million (US$ 3.2 million) which vill come from Gover»ment and the
communes. Although the objectives of CID remain close to those of FDC,
grants have been eliminated from the CID activity and loans vill be given to
the Communes following a well-defined set of rules. It is expected that
project vill help CID to build up its technical and administrative
capabilities in order to play its role in local development more
effectively.
4.8        Borroving by rural communes is virtually nonexistent, whereas
urban communes, which enjoy a stronger revenue position, have borrowed on a
regular basis. There are at present two financial institutions in a



- 40 -
position to make loans to communes, namely the Banques Populaires and the
CID. The Banque Rwandaise de Développement (BRD) can also extend loans to
the Communes with a CID guarantee.  The table below gÏves a general picture
of communal revenues and expenditures.
Table 8t Consolidated BudRetary Results for All Commnunes
(in million / FRW)
(1)
1980    1981      1982    1983   1984      1985
Revenues: current       697.8   736.8     834.8   941.5  1082.5   1067.7
capital      224.0   276.5      335.3   366.5   465.3    574.1
Expenditures: current  734.5   857.7      912.7   987.2  1041.2   1044.0
capital  245.0   234.8      314.8   331.9   420.1    519.1
Surplus/deficit         -57.7   -79.2     -57.5   -11.1    36-5      78.7
(1) Sources  The Role of the Communes in Socio-Economic Development,
October 1987
4.9        The financial situation of the main communes participating in the
program (Kigali, Butare, Ruhengeri and Gisenyt) is summarized in Annex 8.
Urban communes derive their revenues first from general taxes, which
constitute about 27.5% of total income. The minimum personal tax (CPM) is
an annual head tax of FRW 400 payable by each adult at the age of 18 and
above. The collection rate of the CPM ls about 55Z. There has been no
increase since 1968. The second major local tax is the tax on cattle (TGB),
payable at the rate of FRW 250 per animal a year or more old. Local duties
are taxes on economic activity which represent 48.5% of total revenues of
the communes. Taxes on local markets constitute about 60% of this category.
Although some of these communal taxes may not be fully consistent vith
national legislation lt is the category that has risen most sharply in
recent years (about a 23% annual increase). Other revenues represent about
24X of total revenues of the communes and relate to income from communal
assets, commercial activities (flour milling, service stations, etc.) and
miscellaneous revenues. The expenditures of the communes are for
Administration and personnel, about 27Z; Police, 19%; Public Works, 23Z,
Agrieultural activities, 102, Education, 102 and about 11Z for other
activities.  The four coxaunes are financially sound; all break even and
cover their operating conts. Investments are usually carried out through
subsidies or loans. The proposed Program would change considerably the
financial situation of the four communes. The future financial situation of
the Kigali commune ts the most promising.  Revenues would increase from
about 11W 50 million to FRW 173 million after introducing the new proposed
tax reform. Expenditures vould also increase but the commune vould be able
to generate enough surplus to use for other activities. Butare vill see its
revenues go from FRW 20 million to about FRW 31 million with the tax reform.
Its cash flow vill be positive up to the year 2000, when its revenues vill
need to be slightly revised. The two other communes, Ruhengeri and Gisenyi,



- 41 -
would be able to double their revenues with the proposed tax reform and
generate sufficient cash to develop their future activities. The accounting
system currently used is a simple one, with single entry bookkeeping. With
the new responsibilities, the urba- communes would switch to a double entry
bookkeeping system with sound financial practices (cost accounting and
budgeting). Kigali and Butare would start to change their accounting
practices to double entry bookkeeping during the implementation of the
Program and would gradually computerize their systems. The project would
help them to achieve these objectives.
C.  Afferdality
UpRradinR neixhborhoods
4.10       The program is designed to introduce bastc infrastructure into
the five neighborhoods of Kigali (drainage, on-site sanitation, garbage
collection, vater standpipes, public lighting and housing improvements).
Three categories of housing are identified : 1) category ls 150 m2 plot of
land with water and electricity and improv.ment of existing latrines; 2)
category 2s 250 m2 plot %7ith water and electricity, improvement of existing
latrines and basic housing improvement; 3) category 3: 350 m2 plot with
water and electricity, construction of new latrines and one additional room.
4.11       It is assumed a full cost recovery of expenditures which would
consist of water and electricity, property tax, a surcharge to recover the
cost of secondary and tertiary infrastructure (see also para. 4.21),
improvement and construction of new latrines, improvement of housing (roof
or foundation) and construction of an additional room.
4.12       Lons will be given for latrines, home improvements and
construction with Y>anques Populaires savings plans over a period between 5
to 15 years, depending on the type of house, at 9% interest. A 10% prior
savings is required for latrines and 20S for construction. The monthly
costs (in FRW) for the three categories of housing identified are as
follows:
Cateizor
1        2        3
Water and electricity         500      500       500
Property tax                  117      117       229
Surcharge                     391      652       `12
Housing improvement             0      760      1368
Latrines                      290      290      1410
1298     2319     4419
Minimum income required
vith 30S of income devoted
to  housing                 4327     7730    14730



- 42 -
4.13       Based on the surveys conducted by BUNEP of monthly household
incomes in 1986 (updated) in the five neighborhoods of Kigali and the costa
shown above, we obtain the following reaultas 1) Householda with incomes of
FRW 4327 or more ( which correspond to the 8th percentile) can afford
category 1 home improvements.  In order to include the 8 percent that can
not afford the minfmum housing improvements, a pricing policy would be
adopted for different levels of income, a modular system that would allow a
cross subsidy for this lowest income category; 2) Householde with incomes of
FRW 7730 or more (18th percentile) can afford category 2 home improvements;
and 3) Households with incomes of FRW 14730 or more (45th percentile) cen
afford category 3 home improvements.
4.14       The affordability criteria were tested on three levols of income
devoted to housings 20Z, 30S and 402. The study reterred to above shows
that 302 is the most appropriate figure, since in fact the percent of income
currently devoted to housing varies in the low income categories between 25S
and 37S.
Serviced Plots in Kisali
4.15       This action consista of developing the Gaculiro area in Kigali.
The development includes basic infrastructure, delivery of building permita
and construction of houses. Three categories of plots have been identifieds
1) Category lt 150 m2 with a minimum construction and water and electricity;
2) Category 2s 300 m2 vith 2 rooms (3Cm2 construction); 3> Category 3s 500
m2 with 3 rooms (45so2 construction).
4.16       Cost recovery includes payment for all services (water,
electricity, and acquisition of land) plus the property tax and the
surcharge. House construction costs are also in three categories: 1) FRW
115000, 2) FRW 315000, and 3) FRW 465000. Loans are made for land
acquisition and home construction over a 10 year period -t 9S interest with
the Banques Populaires saving plan of 20% contribution for both land and
construction. The surcharge is also based on the coat of basic
infrastructure financed by a loan from CID to the communes which recover
from the beneficiaries through the surcharge mechanism at the mare onlending
conditions as land acqui.ition and construction. The monthly costs of
*ervicing plots in Gaculiro (in FRW) for the three categories ares



- 43 -
Cateaory
1           2
150 m2      300 m2      500 m2
Water nd electricity          500         500          500
Land acquisition              152         304          507
Property teax                 117         117          117
Surcharge                     480         961         1601
Home construction            1165        3193         4713
2414        5075         7438
Minimum income required
with 302 of incume
devoted to housing          8047       16917        24793
4.17       The income distribution of householda in Gaculiro (Kigali) is
considered to be the same as that for the five neighborhoods in Kigali
discussed above. The affordability of householde in the Gaculiro area would
bot 1) Households vith FRW 8047 income or more (21st percentile) can afford
a category 1 house; 2) Householde vith FRW 1691 (55th percentile) and more
can afford a category 2 house; and 3) Householde with FRW 24793 or more
(74th percentile) can afford a category 3 house. Thus, new housing would be
affordable to all but the bottom fifth of the income distribution, which
corresponds closely tc experience with new low-cost housing around the
vorld.  The bottom fifth would continue to rent rooms or houses uwtil their
incomes improve, at which time home ownerehip becomes possible.
Serviced plots in Butare
4.18       This concerns the Matyazo area in Butare with the same categorles
of houses as in Gaculiro (Kigali).  The onlending terms and conditions are
the same as in Gaculiro (Kigali).
4.19       The breakdown of monthly cost elements for Matyazo in the three
categories is as follows (FRW)s



- 44 -
CateRorY
1           2           3
150 m2      300 m2      500 m2
Water end electricity         500         500          500
Land acquisition               91         182          304
Property tax                  100         100          100
Surcharge                     361         722         1204
Home construction            1165        3193         4713
2217        4697        6821
Minimum income required
with 302 of income
devoted to housing          7390       15656        22736
4.20       ACT and Bugeco (consultants) carried out a survey in 1987 of
incomes of households adjacent to the Matyazo area (excluding rural areas),
Based on this surveys 1) Households with incomes of FRW 7390 and above (18th
percentile) can afford Category 1 vith minimum construction and facilities;
2) Households with FRW 15656 (47th percentile) income or more can afford
Category 2 with a two-room house; snd 3` Households with FRW 22736 (69th
percentile) or more can affort Category 3 with a three-room house. The seme
remarks mentioned for Gaculiro (Kigali) apply to Matyazo (Butare), both
j          being new plots that would be affordable by 792 of the population in Kigali
and 82% in Butare. The conclusion of this affordability test in that a high
percentage of the low income population in Kigali and Butare would be able
to benefit from the program.
D.  Co0t Recoverv and Re.licabilty
4.21       The objective of the cost recovery measures adopttd is to relate
the charges to be borne by households as closely as possible to their
ability to pay and to the benefits they receive. Costs recove-ed directly
include housing credits through loan repayments, secondary snd tertiary
infrastructure networks through a surcharge to be levied on property owners,
water and electricity installations through tariffs, and CID and CHR
operating costs through profit margins on their contractual activities.
Establishment of satisfactory mechanisms for recovery of costs including the
surcharge to recover the portions of upgrading costs identified above would
be a condition of disbursement for the housing programs. Costs to be
recovered directly account for 47% of total project costs.
4.22       A further 22% of project coets, relating to the strengthening of
municipal revenues and financial management, tax collection, and equipment
and operating costs of Urban Development Departments (SDU) would be
recovered indirectly through the property tax payable by the population of
each city concerned. Operating costs of CID and CHR would be absorbed by
their profit margins. Actions being supported by the municipal revenue
generation component are designed to ensure that municipal receipta increase
sufficiently to cover the debt charges and increased maintenance costs



- 45 -
arising from the infrastructure investments.  The j.roperty tax La a suitable
means of recovering these investments since property values vould reflect
the benefits received reasonably well.  The cash flova- if the c4ties
concerned presented in Annex 8 show that Kigali would be able to support all
costs (investments, operating costs and debt service). Butare would be able
to pay for its operating costs and for the serviced plots.  The other two
cities would be able to absorb their operating and maintenance costs, but
the investment costa would be a budget item that would be recovered through
national taxation rather than from the direct beneficiaries.
4.23       Together, direct and ind-Lrect recovery account for 70% of total
Program costs. The balance of 30% concerne land acquisition in Kigali snd
Butare, the resettlement program, equipment for secondary towns, equipment
and operating costs for the four amaller towns, assistance to artisans and
the construction sector, program management, studies, training and technical
assistance. The costs of these elements are not recoverable and would be
absorbed by the central government. Grants from UN&D, UNCpF, and FAC
equivalent to about 7.2% of total project cost would help the Goverament
meet these coats. A breakdown of cost recovery is summarized in Table 10
below.
4.24       Repayment of the subsidiary loans related to the Program would be
channeled through a Housing Fund (para. 3.20). The Goverrment would
undertake to use the Housing Fund proceeds for preparation and design of
future urban projects. This will thus establish a clear means of
replicating the results by i) establishing priorities for development of
future sites; iL) providing funding for detailed deaigrs and development of
these sites.



- 46 -
Table  9                                              SOXL0 op cm
(NOO ef luiwa snd 4dutl )
Akuork. kJ                             Coub reco.erd *g
Water a
iNtbwr   PNop.ilg  oin     iurahs               l*e
Total Oovarnant   Denera      Tnm     Rpeawnt   ru.  CD    O*f    T_riff
A. 1 LOCAL 4æE  0ENMT10N
AND FDWCIAL NAè4ACEMET            189.1  25.8         40.8        78.5   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
A.2   IT DNTERC0UMAL De
aEVBJPWEe  (CID)                   60.9  14.8          0.0         0.0   0.0          0.0  46.8   0.0   0.0
A.8 1WSDU81 N NCE                    1682.1  48.8         0.0         0.0 160.8          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
9.1 LN0 DEVEiR#ENT OiARTe            t2ti.6 521.8        40.0        697.8   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
8.2 RIi4A8ITATXON 0iP CdSM
i<#an l&i  DU iWAN>A (CM)          08.7   0.0         67.8         0.0   0.0          0.0   o ^  '1.4   0.0
8.8 SECU7TY OF LFl9AN
LNA  TUE                           51.8   0.0         ê1.8         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
B.4 4WSD  PRiSRM                      28.7 148.8        l11.8        814.0  86.8       521.0   0.0   0.0  90.0
C.1 ASSISTMANCE TO ARISA&             109.8 109.S         0.0         0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
C.2 ASSBSTANIE TO Te COiNsRCrTION
SB:T8                             206.1 181.7         20.4         0.0  4b.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
O  FROAM i  MAQIT                     145.8 145.B         0.0         0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
TOTAL                    800.6 1t40.1       8s9.6      10.8 1787.6        8K.0  46.6  21.4  90.0
USII oquivalnt /.iIllion  68.0  14.8          4.7        14.1  22.8          6.8   0.6   0.8   1.2
s                         100.0% 22.8%        7.28       21.78 84.7%        10.41  O.Ol  0.4t  1.8%



- 47 -
V.   ECONONIC AiND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION
A. Justification
5.1        Over the past several years the share of agriculture in the
Rwandese economy has fallen while that of industry (including construction
and utilities) has continued to rise. irban areas, where industry and
services tend to concentrate, have seen rapid growth, but have not developed
the structures or financial discipline that are required for urbanization to
contribute its share to developmefLt. The project supports national
development objectives primarily through the positive impacts expected on
the national budget, on the rural-urban economy, and on central-local
government relations.
5.2        Impacts on the national budget would be felt in two ways.  First,
by improving the capacity of cities and towns to generate their own
resources, the burdens on the national development and recurrent budgets
vould be reduced. The package of reforme in urban planning practices and
land management with their accompanying training programs hold out the
promise for the first time that non-subsidized housing could be built on a
scale roughly in lino with future demand. Avoidance of subsidies extends
also to the upgrading program in Kigali, which deals with neighborhoods long
thought to be beyond real help because families were too densely settled,
too poor, and without incentive to improve their situation. This principle
further extends to the institutional strengthening aspects, in which CHR,
for example, would not require another capital replenishment in order to
carry out its agreed 5-year program. It would also lower the cost of new
urban programs in the future since the cities would not need to resort to
large-scale expropriation of land, with compensation of the owners, in order
to accommodate growth. The second effect on the national budget would be
the long-term savings in foreign exchange resulting from production of local
building materials and application of methods of reducing constructi.on
costs, now among the highest in the world.
5.3        Especially in the artisan promotion and construction industry
programs, the project is in a position on the rural-urban continuum in
Rwanda in which both rural and urban residents can be expected to benefit.
For local administrations the project aima te provide a structure that is
complementary to the basically rural vocation of most all communes. Except
for Kigali and Butare, the communes assisted are all struggling to deal with
urban and rural problems simultaneously, with a single administrative
structure for both. The project introduces an urban structure so tbat the
Bourgmestre can deal with urban matters more effectively at a technical
level, leaving more time for other concerns.
5.4        In support of the Government commitment to devolve power and
authority onto the communes, the project would strengthen local
administrations while preserving the supervisory authority of the central
ministries. The pace and content of the decentralization embodied in the



- 48 -
project are flexible, and would be adjusted as necessary and desirable
during implementation. A separate SDU Chief for Gisenyi, launching of the
Property Tax in Rvamagana, and materials and equipment for street
maintenance ln Butare are examples of actions not included in the programs
presently defined, but which could be supported depending among other things
on the pattern of decentralization prevailing in the future.  Much reliance
is placed on the Program Unit and on the investment/expenditure planning
process as the main avenues at the working level for building trust between
Ministry and commune officiasl  and pursuing common objectives.
5.5        Urban Poverty Aspects.   The housing and SDU programa would reach
significant numbers of low-income families in Kigali and the secondary
centers. For Kigali a monthly household income of FRW 13,000 (US$169)
roughly separates groupa of families, with steadily employed laborers and
clerical workers above the threshold and irregularly employed laborers,
apprentices, and domestics below. About 402 of families in Kigali have
incomes below this amount, as do 402 of residents of the neighborioods that
would benefit from the upgrading programs.  For the three secondary centers
75Z of families fall below this threshold.
B. Environmental Impact
5.6        The project vould improve drainage, sanitation, and other
physical environmental conditions for about 40,000 people in the upgrading
neighborhoods of Kigali and in Butare. These improvements would come about
through a reduction in overall population densities, separation of
vastevater and stormwater runoff from drinking vater, and the extensive on-
site sanitation program which vill also benefit other similar neighborhoode
ln Kigali.  The 110 families displaced by the upgrading program vould be
resettled in the eame netghborhoods in equivalent housing, as described
earlier (see para. 3.13). Overall, positive impacts on the environment are
expected frei this project.
C.  Beneflt Estimation and Economic Rate of Retura
5.7        Economic rates of return vere calculated for the housing
programs, whose benefits lend themselves to quantification. Foreign
exchange costs vere increased 202 as an assumption about the true scarcity
value of the Rwandese Franc. Labor costs vere not adjusted, since market
prices are considered to reflect opportunity costs r.qsonably vell. Local
taxation, land management, studies, and other programs vere not included in
these calculations because of the difficulty in quantifying benefits. The
veighted-average economic rate of return (ERR) of the housing programs is
162.  If costs increase 20Z and benefits vere to diminish by the sa
amouat, the veighted-avetage ERR would still be 11%. Table 11 below gives
economic rates of return for each of these elements and the results of



- 49 -
senait$vity tests that describe the cUanges ln costs and benefits Lt is
reasonable to expect may occur.  Details of the approach and assumptlona
used are given in Annex 11.
Table 10
Economic Rates of Return
S
Kigali      But-re
Serviced    Serviced
UDaradina   Plots        Plots       Total
Base Case                        17           14         19          16
Costa increased 10              15           il         16          14
Benefits decroased 10Z           13           12         16          12
Costa increased and
benefits decreased 102           12           10         14          il
D.  Risks and Provosed Remedies
5.8        The main riaks affecting the implementation of thus program
concern (a) the capacity of the executing agencies; (b) cost recoveryg and
(c) decentralization.
5.9        Capacity of Executina Anencies.  Urban communes cannot be
expected to adjust rapidly to the new structures and systeme be$ng
introduced. It vill take time for urban staff to define a precise rolo in
relation to central mLnistries and the prefecture, as well as to master the
procedures of property tax collection and management of land records. The
risk of overload is minimLzed, however, partly because of substantial
amounts of training and adequate technical assistance to build up local
capacity, but chiefly because gradualism La embedded in the design of the
program itself. The emaller cowunes are not asked to perform beyond their
means or their near-term potential. Especially for the larger communes,
specific arrangements for transfer and hiring of personnel would help ensure
that sufficient staff are on hand to carry out the programs. For CHR the
capacity question la posed differently, in terme not of insufficient staff
but of an overambitious work program. During the 5-year transition perLod
CHR would curtail the turnkey types of housing projecte that often
misestimated the market, and concentrate essentially on the housing programs
Ln which it acte on behalf of others for a fee. Centralized coordination
and management by the Prcgram Unit should provide a general forum for
information exchange and problem-solving in the event mismatches arise in
the future between the program as presently defined and implementation
capacity.



- 50 -
5.10       The risk of a commune not being fully operational at the start of
implementation vas given special attention in the case of the newly-created
Prefecture of the City of Kigali.  Until its capacity is demonstrated the
approach would be to confer upon delegated executing agencies, often at the
national level, actual lino responsibility for program execution. This has
been done notably in the case of CHR for the upgrading and serviced plots
and of DGW for on-site sanitation. Appointment of several middle managers
as vell as the Prefect of Kigali vould occur prior to effectiveness. Beyond
these measures vould be the flexibility inherent in sectoral programs of
adjusting the timetable in the light of a reassessment of needs and
capacities.
5.11       Cost Recoverv.  Several features of the project suggest that the
riake from beneficiaries not paying the Property Tax or the surcharge are
acceptable.  The Property Tax has been established at low initial levela and
vith a vide band of rates vithin which communes can evaluate the consistency
of the tax vith the capacity to pay of its population.  Close supervision by
the Bourgmestres, central ministries, and IDA vould nonethelese be required,
for Butare, Ruhengeril, and Gisenyi especially. In Kigali, vith a high
proportion of renters and therefore many hom.owners owning more than one
house, taxpayers should be able to pay the Property Tax and the surcharge
vithout major problems whle the Prefecture vould gain for the first time
the ability to meet both the investment and recurrent costs of nev programs.
Finally, the upgrading civil vorks in the five neighborhoods of Kigali vill
be divided into at least two tranches. The physical improvements vould be
undertaken at roughly the seme time as the tax obligations come due.
Collection performance during the first phase of works vould be reviewed
before subsequent phases begin.
5.12       Decentralization.   The potential for foot-dragging on
decentralization has also been reduced to acceptable levels. First,
agreement vas obtained prior to appraisal on transfer from MINITRAPE to the
urban communes of land management, street improvemente, and the other
services described in Chapter II. Given the Government's often-stated
commitment to decentralization and communal development as a corneratone of
development policy over the next 25 years, the process of strengthening of
local authorities should continue. Any changes in the key features of this
procese vould be reviewed annually and incorporated into revisions of the
Action Plan. The main instruments of decentralization, including a 1975
Plan d'Action Communal and the present Strategy Statement of Sectoral Policy
and Action Plans, are meant to be applied pragmatically, vith variations for
local conditions and capacities.



- 51 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION
6.1        At negotiations, assurances were obtained thati
a.    An updated three-year public expenditure program for the urban
sector would be prepared by November 30 of each year, and its
contents reviewed with IDA. The Action Plan would be reviewed
and adjusted at the same time (paras. 3.2, 3.22);
b.    By December 31, 1989, CHR would have established the Monitoring
Unit within the Directorate of Land and Housing Development to
supervise lmplementation of the housing programs (para. 3.09;
Annex 5, para. 17);
c.    CHR would implement its policies of control of operating expenses
by Decnmber 31, 1990 (para. 3.9);
d.    Chiefs of the Financial Departments for the towns of Ruhengeri
and Gisenyi would be appointed by December 31, 1990 (para. 3.3);
a.   A Housing Fund initially for repayments by the CID of the
subsidiary loans made to it by the Government would be
established by December 31, 1990 (para. 3.20);
f.    Staff in sufficient numbers would be made available to urban
communes from MINITRAPE and other central ministries (para 3.24);
and
g.    Agreements with Rwandese training institutions and with
ELECTROGAZ for training of managers and staff of the SDUs,
financial departments of the communes, CID, and land registry
staff in the communes would be signed by March 31, 1990 (para.
3.26).
6.2        The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
a.    Appointment of a Project Director, Technical Officer,
Administrative and Financial Officer, and Program Officer of the
Program Unit (para. 3.16, 3.25);
b.    Promulgation of legislation creating and organizing the
Prefecture of the City of Kigali (para. 3.3, 3.6);
c.    Promulgation of legislation and regulations governing building
and subdivision authorization, compensation for expropriation,
and communal land management (paras. 3.3, 3.7);
d.    Signature of SubsidiaLy Loan Agreements between the Government
and CID and between CID and the Prefecture of the City of Kigali
and Commune of Ngoma (Butare), respectively, for the
establishment of SDUs in these cities and for the housing



- 52 -
programs, and signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
ELECTROGAZ (paras. 3.6, 3.11, 3.19 (b));
e.    Establishment of Financial Departments in the towns of Butare,
Ruhengeri, and Gisenyl (para. 3.3);
f.    Establishment of the Fund for Urban Development vithin CID (para.
3.4); and
g.    Initial deposit of FRW 40 million in the Program Advance Account
(para. 3.34).
6.3        The following conditions of diabursement of funds against related
expenditure would also applys
For housinR finances
-     Presentation of a satisfactory Cofinancing and Implementation
Plan by the Banques Populaires (para. 3.5);
For CHR:
'  -  Recruitment of 1 municipal engineer, 1 sanitary engineer, and 4
technicians for the Monitoring Unit, and 1 architecthhousing
expert and 2 technicians for review of applications for housing
credits (Annex 5, paras. 17 and 19);
For the housing proaramss
-     Signature of the Program-Contract between the Government and CHR
(para. 3.9);
-     Establishment of a Property Tax and surcharges to recover the
cost of secondary and tertiary infrastructure in the upgrading
neighborhoods and serviced plots (para. 4.21);
-     Signature of a management contract (contrat de maître d'oeuvre
dilégué) between the Municipality of Kigali and CHR for housing
programs in Kigali, and between the Commune of Ngoma (Butare) and
CHR for the Matyazo serviced plot program (para. 3.9);
-    Approval of the site plan (Plan particulier d'aménagement) for
the upgrading neighborhoods (Annex 5, paras. 29-32); and
-     Establishment of the necessary land reserves through
expropriation for the upgrading and serviced plot programs (Annex
5, paras. 29-31);



- 53 -
For the On-Site Sanitation Programs
-     Establishment at the CHR of a Guarantee Fund for loans made by
the Banques Populaires for latrine construction and improvement
(para. 3.12);
For Assistance to Artisans and to the Construction Industrys
-     Signature of Protocols of Agreement with the respective
implementing agencies for execution of these components.
6.4        With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 24.8 million (US$32 million) to the
Goverment of Rwanda.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 13
TRANSLATION
STATEMENT OF GENERAL POLICY IN THE HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
1.         In accordance with the broad directions defined during
preparation of the Fourth national Plan for economic, social, and cultural
development, the Rwandese Government has prepared and is implementing a
sectoral strategy in housing and urban development consistent with the
overall national development strategy of the country.
2.         This housing and urban development strategy is based on the
major conclusion that this sector should play a more active role in
providing encouragement and direction for economic activity and job
creation.   The flow of the rural population to the urban centers, the lack
of resources available to the communes, and the shortage of human resources
all combine to make it difficult to manage urban growth.
3.         In 1985, the government took steps to address these issues by
conducting an in-depth study to identify vays of harmonioualy channeling the
actions of the central government, the communal authorities and the private
sector toward a consistent strategy of intervention. The conclusions of
this study vere adopted in their entirety by the Inter-Ministerial
Coordination Committee (CIC), at the ministerial level, in 1986.
4.         In February 1986, a seminar attended by over 50 government
officials led to the creation of a core of officials and technicians
involved in the urban housing sector.
5.         The existence of this vorking group has made it possible to
bring a more comprehensive approach to the discussion of the complex
problems raised by urban development, with a view to reaching solutions and
paving the way for measures and projecta to be implemented by Rwandese
operators.
At the seminar, strategic guidelines vere adopted and specific
policies and programs identified.
6.         These guidelines and programs have made an unquestioned
contribution to the country's development objectives, by establishing three
linkages with its macroeconomic strategy:
-    mobilization and more effective use of local resources;
-    support for central and local government efforts to improve the
management of urban growth; and
-    assistance with job creation and with revitalization of the
construction materials industry.



- 55 -
Page 2 of 13
7.         These three linkages show how the housing and urban development
sector fits into the national economy as a vhole.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
8.         Before defining the specific policies that the government
intendt to apply in this sector, Lt la useful to identify the three
principles that vill in future govern all public $nvestment in the area of
housing and urban development.
9.         First of ail, the principle of Rreater responsibility and
Accountability for the mrniciial authorities has been £dopted, since the
problems of development and management of urban centers cannot be solved by
the national government alone.
10.        Thas inc-ease in responsibility and accountability is expected
to be a gradual process, adjusted to take account of the scale and capacity
of each urban center, and applied flexibly according to the allocation of
responsibilities for urban services defined vithin the framework of project
preparation, which determines the types sad levels of the specifie public
services for which the urban communes are to be responsible.
:1.        Secondly, our desire to diversify the ranae of feasible
solutions in terme of land, construction. and housinR improvement,
facilitating access to housing loans for low- and middle-income householde,
implies a greater role for private enterprise and the enactment of
significant policy measures.
12.        The third principle governing our actions ln the sector iL  that
of r.covery of investment and 22erating costa. To reduce to a min$mum the
volume of resources to be mobiliaed, the new urban programa vill need to
recycle the funds recovered from the beneficiaries of earlier programs.  In
view of the ahortage of local fundat the Goverrment has so far provided
financing not only for pzimary infrastructure, but also for secondary
infrastructure Lnvestments. Henceforth, investmenta in secondary
infrastructure, benefiting the residente of a given neighborhood, vill
normally be recovered from the beneficiaries, principally through local
taxation.  The purchase and development of plots vill be the responsibility
of the occupants.  Primary Lnvestmenta normally benefiting the community as
a whole vill have to be flnanced by the national budget.
13.        However, lt should be noted that a major portion of primary
Investments La for off-site vater and electricity supply. These
expenditures can be recovered through the regular system of charges
(connection and consumption).



-56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 13
MOBILIZATION OF LOCAL RESOURCES
14.        The management of urban growth calls for large volumes of
financial resources, provided in part by local taxation. Avare that
communal finances are in a precarious situation, the Government intends to
carry out several actions to enable the communes to bear the costs of urban
development.
15.        The Government plans to introduce a Property Tax to be charged
by communes vith all or part of an urban district in their territory. The
pertinent legal and regulatory texte vill be prepared and submitted for
review by the decision-making authorities. Cqer a longer period the
Government also intends to review the traditional local taxes (especially
the Head Tax (CPM) and Tax on Cattle); the Tax Burden Study included in the
Urban Institutions Project vill contribute to this process. The improvement
in communal finances vill al80 be accompanied by an improvement in financial
management; vithin this framework, the Government vill assist the urban
communes to establiah simple revenue and expenditure forecasting and an
improved accounting system.
16.        In 1987, the Government carried out a review to determine
whether the Fonds de Diveloppement Communal (FDC) vas capable of
contr'buting fully to the policy, announced by the President of the Republic
on July 1, 1987, of devoting the next 25 years to commune development. In
this regard the Government has amended D.cree-Law No. 17177 of July 13, 1977
establishing the FDC, by creating the Inter-Communal Development Credit
agency (CID), vith full legal status and administrative and financial
autonomy.  Since most of the administrative and social infrastructure has
been or is being put in place, the CID vill be stressing the financing of
economically productive investments.  Although the communes may still have
recourse to the banking sector, the Governmeut, in implementing this reform
aims to ensure that the CID vill be performing its role as financial
intermediary for the communes. With respect to the financing of urban
development, a special vindow vithin the CID vill make it possible to grant
loans to local authorities.
17.        Despite the country's difficult financial situation, savings
continue to expand. Those savings can partially be channeled toward the
construction and housing sector. Simple adaptations of the banking
regulations, together vith the identification of nev financial instruments
such as savings for housing, vill enable new householde to have access to
credit.  The goverrment, in line vith the housing sector strategy, has
established and is implementing a system of savinge for housing. This
system la accessible to Rvanda's entire banking system.
MANAGEMENT OF URBAN GROWTH
18.        The Government has launched a decentralization policy which
consiste of developing the role of the communes and their involvement in
urban planning, regulation and management. Also, Urban Development,



- 57
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 13
Technical Services and Land Management Departments vill soon be created ln
the urban communes. This vill strengthen their urban planning and
management capacities and, above all, their role in land manaRement. This
decentralization procesas vill be phased over time, depending on the ai.e,
functions ana importance of the city or town concerned. During the first
f ve years of the program these services vill be introduced, wholly or
partly, in eight cities and towns, and vill later be expanded to other urban
centers. The eight towas are divided into three major groupa according to
aize and type, as followst
I.   Kigali
Il.   Butare, Ruhengeri, Gisenyi
III. Cyangugu, Rvamagana, Ruhango, Mukamira.
19.        The vork of planning and implementing urban development services
consista at present ofs
-    proparation of draft local urban development plans
-    preparation of site development plans
-    maintenance of secondary roads, stormwater and vastervater
drainage, urban transport, garbage collection
-    assessment of housing and infrastructure requirements
-    preparation of technical and financisl. project proposals
-    processing of applications for building permits.
The urban communes vill undertake these tasks gradually,
depending on their needs and their capacity to meet operating costs.
20.        The ¢ity of Kigali represents a speclal case.  A decision has
already been taken to establish an urban administration for cLe capital
city; the draft legislation is currently being reviewed.  Actions aimed at
improving the management of the capital city vill be launched at the same
tim as the urban administration is put ln place.
21.        The management of urban development vill be facilitated, in the
Rvandese context, by the strengthening of operators capable of supplementing
the capacities of the national and local authorities. In this respect the
government intends to continue the process, begun in 1983, of restructuring
the Caisse Hypothecaire du Rwanda (CHR), and vill support the CHR recovery
program proposed in 1986. The CHR has decided, during a transition period
of about five years, to continue te perform lts role as developer (acting as
delegated $mplementing agency on behalf of MINITRAPE or the communes) and of
financier. The commitmenta of the CHR and of the Government during this
transition period vill be set forth ln a Program-Contract. With regard to
interim financing, the Program-Contract would include for example the
establishment and management of a mortgage insurance system. As regards
development and promotion activit$es, CHR vill act as selling agent for
subdivisions carried out by MINITRAPE.



- 58 -
Page 5 of 13
22.        To guarantee a higher return on public investment and to
encourage prieate initiative, and in view of the fact thet construction by
the public authorities of housing for civil servants has not achieved the
deaired resulte, the Government La considering the possibility of
vithdraving gradually from the housing sector.  This vould b. accomplished
prlmarily through the establisbment of a hire-purch«ase system for civil
servant housing.
23.        To achieve bett.r urban management, lt is essential that thoe
4nstitutional and legal framework, in particular the urban development
regulations and the land law provisions, be adapted and expanded in
accordance vith sector strategy guidelines.  In particular, the Goverument
vlll adopt a set of measures to slmplify the process of obtaining
subdivision and building permits, and of preserving land tenure rights at
the commune level.
24.        Within the framavork of a simplified cadastre, th. occupants of
urban land vlll b. able to obtain certificates of ownership confirming their
occupancy rights.  TMiese certificates vill be issued on the basis of a draft
site development plan, i.e. an urban development plan that can be quickly
prepared and that vill promote more orderly placement of housing and
infrastructure. Thls document can be prepared at the local level.
INVESTMENT PROGRAMMING
25.        Preparation of the Fourth Development Plan and the progromming
of public investment are currently nearing completion.  These activities
have taken account of estimates of investment undertaken locally, and are
consistent vith the principal objectives of the sector. Since operators and
developers are increasing ln numbers and diveraity, institutional capacities
in terme of human and physical resources vill be strengthened In order to
maintain an overall consistency of sectoral $vestments and ensure their
harmonlous integration vithin the economy as a ,ahole. This vlll eventually
facilitate annual revievs of the public investment and expenditure programs
based on the actions of the various operators ln the sector.
JOB CREATION
26.        Artisans ln urban areas cannot always beneflt from ongoing
pxograms, and they have dlfficulty obtaining credit from the banking system.
The authorities are taking stepe ln this area to increase artisan
productivity through specific guidance, training, and improvement of the
institutional environment La which they operate.  These measures are
supported by the active efforts of the trade associations, and include the
provision of facilities, tecbnical tralilng, and the establishment of
materials stocks. Ongoing or planned actionr in the construction sector are
designed to promote the production and lmproved use of local building
materials. This policy supports efforts already being made, and the
Goverament vill asle explore the possibility of using other local materials



- 59 -
ANNE 1
Page 6 of 13
and stlmulating possible responses to the demand for products and services
in the hous*ng and urban development sector.
IMPLEMENTATION
27.        Implementation -nd monitoring of the prograums set forth above
vill be carried out by the ministry responsible for urban development. In
each sub-sector, Action Plans vill indicate the principal elements of the
execution of the strategies adopted.  The Action Plan which vill guide the
firet phase of strategy implementation is attached to the present document.
CONCLUSION
28.        The Rwandese Government has spared no effort to define its
housing and urban development policy, and pledges to austain its strong
efforts so that the progress in this sector can be maintained.
Hon. Joseph Nsirorera
Minister of Public Works, Energy, and
Water



- 60 -
ANNX 1
Page 7 of 13
RWANDA
Urban Institutions Sectoral Development Prolect
Surmary of Government Action Plans
(Indicative Schedule)
Objectives                Action Plan                  Completion
A. Communal Taxation and Financial Manaftement
Enhance the ability         Agreement on the legislation        December 31,
of the communes to          establishing the Land Tax           1989
finance their               and modifying the current
expenditure programs        Property Tax (Decree-Law
and maintain their          No.12/81 of June 19, 1981)
investments
Agreement on the legislation       March 31,1990
introducing an
infrastructure charge for
improvement of secondary and
tertiary infrastructure in
upgrading neighborhoods
Subsequent to
Review of proposed reforme         Tax Burden
of other communal taxes            Study (1991)
(Head Tax--GPM, Tax on
cattle--TGB, etc.)
Improve the financial       Formulation of a specific           March 31,1990
management of urban         training program in
communes                    accounting and fin4Lcial
management for commune
personnel



ANNEX '
- 61-                     Page 8 of l3
Oblectives                     Action Plan                  Comuletion
Implement me-sures          Decision on the draft               December 31,
ensuring the                statute concerning creation         1989
financial and               of CID
managerial autonomy
of the Crédit
Intercommunal de
D&veloppement (CID)
and ito operation
Establishment of operating         December 31,
proceduress  review of              1989
proposals, accounting
systems, personnel,
relations with the
supervisory authority
B.  Housing Finance and Savinfs-for-Housinf  Svstem
Facilitate access to        Decision by BNR on the              June 30, 1989
housing credit for          maximum term of bank housing
low-income households       loans (nov 15 years;
by channeling a             proposed extension to 20
portion of national         years)
savings toward
construction and
housing



ANNEX 1
- 62 -                     Page 9 of 13
Oblectives                     Action Plan                  Completion
Redefinition of the BNR low-       June 30, 1989
income housing (logements
sociaux) category in order
to modify the requirements
of 'construction in
permanent materials' and
land titles to include
attestation of land
possession (occupancy
permit)
Confirmation by Banques            June 30, 1989
Populaires, in the Savings
for Housing Plan (Housing
Access Program--PAP), of its
implementation plan
Decision on the                    December 31,
establishment of a Guarantea       1989
Fund vithin the Caisse
Hypothécaire (CHR) for
mortgage insurance
Establishment of this Fund         December 31,
1990
C. Security of Urban Land Tenure
Promote security of         Decision on the draft               December 31,
land tenure and             Presidential Decree                 1989
access to housing for       concerning maintenance of
all urban residents         communal land records and
the draft Inter-ministerial



ANNEX 1
- 63 -                        Page 10 of 13
Obiectives                Action Plan                  Comiletion
Circular on establishment of
an on-site property census
(levé manuel des terrains)
Decision on the draft Law          December 31,
modifying the Decree-Law on         1989
expropriation and on the
Ministerial Order relating
to Article 28 of that
Decree-Law
D. Communal Urban Development Departments
1. Kixali Municipal Administration
Provide the city of         Decision on the draft Law           September 30,
Kigali with an              concerning administrative           1989
administrative              organization of the capital
organization
consistent with its
current status
Decision on the Presidential       September 30,
Decree establishing the             1989
structure of urban services
in Kigali
Review of the draft revised        December 31,
Personnel Statute for               1989
communal staff



ANNEX 1
-64-                       Page 11 of 13
Oblectives                     Action Plan                  Completion
Adoption and implementation         June 30, 1990
of revised Personnel Statute
Selection and appointment of       June 30, 1990
principal department heads
Agreements with training            June 30, 1990
institutions on a work
program and timetable for
the training of SDU (Urban
Development Department)
financial and technical
personnel
2. Other Cities and Towns
Provide the commnes         Selection and appointment of        Butares March
vith the means to           Chiefs of Finance                   31, 1990;
manage urban growth         Departments Butare,                 Ruhengeri and
and develop urban           Ruhengeri and Gisenyi               Gisenyis
services efficiently                                            December 31,
1990
Agreements with training           December 31,
institutions on a work             1990
program and timetable for
the training of SUU
financial and technical
personnel



ANNEX 1
- 65 -                        Page 12 of 13
Obiectives                     Action Plan                  Completion
Review of the desirability         December 31,
of creating a sub-prefecture        1991
encompassing the town of
Mukamira
E. Strenxtheninf of CHR
Provide CHR with the        Formulation of measures to          March 31, 1989
means of acting as          be taken by the Governm.nt
developer and as            and the CHR in a draft
delegated                   Program-Contract (completed)
implementing agency.
Ensure an effective
role in construction
financing
Agreement on the Program-          December 31,
Contract                            1989
Modification of Government         March 31, 1990
and BNR regulations to
facilitate housing
construction financing



ANNEX 1
- 66 -                           Page 13 of 13
F. HousinR ProRrams
Objectives                     Action Plan                  Comvletion
Carry out upgrading         Finalization of the                 June 30, 1989
and site development        Resettlement Program for
operations for loy-         upgrading neighborhoods
cost housing
Establishment of land              June 30, 1989
reserves for resettlement
Establishment of land              June 30, 1989
reserves for serviced plots
Approval of the Specific           December 31,
Development Plan (Plan              1989
Particulier d'Aménagement)
for squatter neighborhoods
G. Support for the Artisan and Construction Sectors
Encourage local             Written agreements with the         June 30, 1990
initiatives that            executing agencies defining
assist artisans;            the program of training,
facilitate access to        advisory and support
building materials          activities for artisans
Written agreements with the        June 30, 1990
executing agencies for the
establishment and operation
of the brickiroofing tile
and saann wood components



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
Sectoral Investment Propram
1.         The Fourth Development Plan (1990-1994) proposes investments in
the urban sector totalling US$226.3 million oer the five-year period. This
represents about 25% of the MINITRAPE investment program in vater supply,
highways, energy, and urban development, and about 12% of total expected
public and private investment. The program consists of investments by the
MINITRAPE in construction and maintenance of public buildings, site
development and urban planning, and housing. Investments undertaken by
local authorities have not 80 far been included in the investment planning
process. Among the major objectives of future programming exorcises of this
type are to capture the full range of investments being carried out in urban
areas by all levels of government, and to move to an expenditure programming
sys¶tem by all levels in which recurrent as vell as investment costs are
fully assessed.
2.         Under the Fourth Plan, urban sector investments are to be
allocated among the folloving sub-sectorss
US$ million
a.   Construction and maintenance
of public buildings                       75.8
b.   Site development and urban
planning                                  59.8
c.   Housing                                   90.7
226.3
Public Buildings
3.         The expenditures included in the Development Budget (BD) do not
yet fully reflect the reorientation of sector policy. Thus, construction of
civil servant housing is still included, though vith less emphasis than in
the past. Other expenditure categories include major renovations of
hospitala, prisons, and other public buildings, and the local counterpart of
construction projecta financed from external sources.
4.         Primarily for reasons of budget stringency and low
lmplementation capacity, the portion of investments under the Third Plan
(1982-1986) that vas actually completed vas low. By investment volume the
completion rate vas 82%, but this vas largely due to costs of the few
completed projects being much larger than initially estimated. A
significant portion of this effort vas devoted to construction of 105 houses
for civil servants, of which 61 vere built in Kigali and the rest in
secondary towns and sub-prefectural centers.
5.         Public construction continues to rely heavily on imported
materials. An ambitious program under the Third Plan to promote local
building materials, notably by the establishment of a Research Center,



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
remained largely unrealized. At the same time, the urgency of such progroma
is demonstrated by the continuing increases in the cost of imported building
materials, and al80 the emergence of the domestic construction industry (nov
composed of over 70 Rçwandese construction enterprises and 7 engineering and
design firms) which te especially concerned with reducing costa in order to
compete effectively wlth well-established foreign firms. A more realistic
progrsm, which builds on studios of local materials recently completed and
on austained monitoring of construction costs, is included in the Fourth
Plan. The goal for the year 2000 is for Itwandese construction firms to be
capable of completing large or complex projects carried out up to nov by
foreign enterprises. To achieve this objective the idea of establiahing a
National Construction Center has been retained in the current plan, but vith
a more realistic time frme allowing initially for monitoring of
construction costs, a more thorough inventory of local materials, and
training of building technicians.
Site Development and Urban Planninic
6.         The major share of investments in this sub-sector concern plot
subdivision and introduction of basic infrastructure to accommodate the
housing requirements of cities and tovas. Up to the present, the Urban
Planning Department of the MINITRAPE has had sole responsibility for
servicing plots of land for residences and industry. Siaultaneously, it has
many other responsibilities, including the delivery of land titles. The
result la an overload which has resulted in the Urban Planning Department
being able to complote only 18Z of the land servicing investments approved
under the Third Plan. Moreover, the sites actually developed vere destined
primarily for use as medium and high standard housing. There vas also a
greater emphasis on Kigali than originally foreseen, as projecta were able
to be carried out in only 3 of the 9 secondary centers initially included.
As commues, the Caisse Hypothecaire, and the private sector participate
more directly in land servicing under the current sectoral reforms, a
greater share of planned investments in this category should be realized.
7.         Proposed investments in this sub-sector under the Fourth Plan
consist mostly of land subdivision in 12 cities and tovns. These
subdivision projects, totalling 712 ha, include the serviced plots la Kigali
and Butare to be supported under the project. Approval of the legislation
supporting the sectoral reforms ls critical for these Investments to move
forvard, since a significant portion of the land to be subdivided is held
under customary rights and since the infrastructure and other improvements
on the land vould be introduced in accordance with a Site Development Plan
(croquis d'aménagement). Other investments in industrial parka (142 ha) and
open apace (247 ha) represent less than 5S of the total for this sub-sector.
Nousinit
8.         Public investment bas accounted for less than 10  of the housing
constructed in urban areas over the past decade. Even for high-standard



- 69 -
AMEX 2
Page 3 of 3
houaing, the banking system has over the past several years covered only
one-third of the financial requirements for housing, with the rest provided
from personal savings of the house purchasers. In this context it vas
virtually inevitable that results of the Third Plan tu terms of public
housing construction would be quite meager. Th. initial Thîrd Plan
forecasta in fact quickly become obsolote as the Urban Strategy Study
recomended basic changes in the organisation and financing of housing.
Primary emphasis vas therefore placed on studies, including the Urban
Strategy Study itself, that would provide the basiF for implementation of
tho new policies.
9.         Under the Fourth Plan, the majority of investments in this
category vould be those dlrectly supported under the present project,
including in particular the upgrading of 5 neighboehoode in Kigali and the
training of housing technicians. Otherwise the sub-sectoral program lu
housiug includes the construction of 3,000 low-cost housing units in Kigali
and low-cost housing for Butare, Ruhengeri, and Gisenyi. The firet of these
ls a holdover from the Third Plan period, and has been La preparation for
many years.  Its financgng plan is not firm. Very little is yet known about
thie second, which should be undertaken leat  in the Plan period vlth
assistance from the SDUs in the cities concerned.
Conclusions
10.        For urban investments as well as for those ln other sectors, the
Fourth Plan ha. been prapared vlth more realiam than its predecessor about
vhat is possible to achieve in a five-year period. Urban sector investments
have moreover benefited from the Urban Strategy Study, which establishes the
broad sectoral objectives that vould be addressed by individual lnvestments.
The sanme is true of a few other sectors, but by no means all. Meanwhile,
all sectoral investments programs includlng urban will require more careful
attention ln the future to three major themes. First, a greater effort is
required to link sectoral programs vith national grovth and redistribution
objectives. This falls largely under the PIPIPEP prograu-lng of the
Ministry of Planning, but also requires support from sectoral ministries.
Second, priorities uithin sectoral programs need to be establlshed in
relation to the stated objectives of the sector.  Immedlately folloving a
sectoral reform the inve3tment program usually displays inconsistencies, a.
holdovers from previous planning periode coexist vlth new projecte whose
objectives already ::eflect the sectoral reorientatior. For the urban sector
the heterogeneity o: the investment program can be expected to dimlnish over
time, as the Prograin Unit supervises preparation of programs vîthin the
Ministry of Public liorks and in the communes. Finally, elaboration of the
firet PIP for the country, expected by the end of 1989, vould be followed as
quickly as possible by a Public Expenditure Program (PEP) review that vould
present and analyse the recurrent budget implications of planned
investments.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
RWANDA
Urban Institutions Sectoral Development Pro1ect
Population of Malor Cities and Towns
('000)
Urban Center                     1978                Estimate
Census               1988 ai
Kigali                           118                 215
Butare                           22                   39
Ruhengeri                         16                  30
Giscnyi                           12.5                33
Nyabisindu                        8.5                 19
Gitarama                          8.5                  15
Byumba                            7                    13
Cyangugu                           7                   12
Gikongoro                         5.5                  10
Rvamagana                         5.5                  10
Xibungo                            4                    7
Kibuye                             3                    5
Ruhango                           2                     4
Nkuli                              2                    3
Total Urban                    221.5                495
Total Rwanda                 4,832.0              6,707.3
X Urban                          5                    7
ai    Based on annual growth rates of 6.5X for Kigalî and 6X for secondary
centers.



- 71 -
ANNX 4
Page 1 of 36
Detailed Cost Estimates
This annex contains detailed cost estimates for each element of the
overall program. Costs are presented as follows:
(1)  Summary statement showir. total cost of the program in millions of
Rwandese Francs bys component, foreign and local currency, taxes;
(2)  One summary statement showing the same infomation as (1) above but
on a yearly basis;
(3)  One sumary statement of each component with detail by nature of
investment within the component (civil works, equipment, technical
assistance, training, etc.), the base cost, the physical
contingencies and the price contingencies;
(4)  One summary statement of each component with detail as in (3) above,
but on a yearly bas£i. Two components have more than one statement;
a) Local Revenum Generation and Financial Management; sub-cost
statements have been prepared to show costs for the four communes;
Kigali, Butare, Ruhengeri and Gisenyi, plus the consolidated
statement for the component; b) Urban Development Departments; 4 sub-
cost statements have been prepared to show costs of Kigali, secondary
towns, amaller townm and training and technical assistance, plus a
consolidated statement for the component.



- 72 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 36
PROJET DE RENFORCEMENT DES
DISTTunT  UI ANESI
R eu. deo couts
(f r/S )
mon.          Sous
Loc.  Dev.  Total    Texe Totel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...... ............ -. ...........
i                 ~~~~~A1-Fl«elltt et Gob ton
Ficlre FTnnet-r           l.on    0 4 .9  988.9   118.    8 1.t 11.8
A2-Credit Intercomeunel
de D.vsloppe_nt (CID)          40.5    9.4   6e.0   0.4   Se.4
àà-Eargne  Logmoont             1419.8  28.6  1447.8   0.0 1447.8
S/Total A         1644.7   71.8  1616.6    1.4 1618.0
81-Montage des Services de
Develo_ppeent Urbaln          640.8 880.7  1027.0  24.8 1051.8
B2-Restructuratlon de l CHR       88.6  89.9   76.5    0.6   77.0
88-Regulirlstion et Conser-
vatlon Foncl-re                28.2   20.8   44.0   0.8   44.8
84-Prograne d'Hbbittat           809.0  289.8  1078.2  44.6 1122.8
S/Total o         1615.0  711.7 2225.7  69.8 2296.5
CI-Assestan   au secteur
de l9Artsanat                  49.9   $7.8   87.8    8.8   91.5
CI-A»Isstnce au secteur
de la Construction            148.1  82.1  175.2   2.1  177.8
S/Total C          198.1  ô9.9  288.0   6.9 268.8
D -Gestion du Projet
et Etudes                      67.9  ô6.8  128.7   2.0  125.7
Total             810.7  918.2 4228.9   79.1 4808.0
Imprevus Physlquer              156.5  75.9  282.4    7.8  289.7
Imprevue Financiers             444.1   96.2   o40.8   11.8  561.6
TOTAL GENERAL            8S11.4 1090.8  6001.7  97.8 5099.8



' o
m-ru  su su   ros   c-r::g.: l o  -,0   rie   r-,or nsI  riso   ser  t'amr r'    05   noni sec   s-e1  rler  rot  Um   aloi   rum  Ulm5''ti0
e-cees ec   uceoro ire o es  r  élue  t*2    loin  t-Lr  lo's *loms rae  élu  o*o   6o-ss t'Ob  oIo`   me6  O,fl  elle  rOi   1n9   LIUe                       mU 1V
vOUS 01    6IL  e-mur1 e-w     0e-o          c'a rer    e to o-    mor1  élus  ee  s-s   Vus  000  e-ou  gl    plus  s-se  s'aos       l r:    OLie   is               -i-ii 
O0oc, rot  noie  tii. Bloe  O-m    VL  t'ri- e-om  LiT  LO0i 5-UtL t-tait en   LuS o-ou  rer:: rom   oies VUS e*    roi   Ulm  r'oue'O
LICI nse   élus  **     O,#   Si0  &le   tO8   0ot  tO@   L'si  VOI  rlB   r,O   WIS  nus9  *,gO   ii0   l'in  O,«                    t' eO    O,£   0i
e-us r-s   ras  reor  r:   r-o   o-o   -r:   ouM  rot   out   vus  o-e   roi   oo6   rue  rie   rot   mur  coie  s-ms  ns1    rtr  e-ses                 iam'wl   o
firee-    l-'e  l'en  l. S-O   mo    0   t'Il 55     ris   r: 0 e-or $s-o    e-us  e-o    r.   m-  l'e t s'rO    r-e   vuo  s'ir  o-o    s'e  s-et              MS           I el o
ffi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~me m wfjX.
#, r te   -Ott-tZ-t-    8" -"§-Ot  t    -"   -"*"St-bO-b  s-not  9-0"t                                     10-t    8s     t'la ç-s'il rn  6  im             a srn _
a        e-es s-n   t-or  o-se e-tus  rt    s-nc  -t trg      O ter   S-rZ  o-Sbrer e-et   St-e  o-rs   *0   O-sOb  'n  bSr   6-r s-too  r-ru  or0   I-S  r-st             e   sOt/
e'~  e-nu ose  e-omsoece  nu   se    ou   mum 'mn  s-g   ors  o-rn    otsa  e-r:  mot  o-uer e-uts e-or  0ere   e-sus LUM  s-e    eILo  L-uer               s',mop   W-U*qj4jl
m-se  e-o   *-S   s-u St      o-"§-o   1-   0- t  o-sp  *o0  0Ou   pl    Vi 8 0            -0          6-*   S-8 *ot 0ro    re    'Ot Li0s'O    *B    t                        M8 _t0
O-,   0-8   S-Se  *-a  e-r  1-0   o-lo   r-'   O-o  r-0   o-o t -e - s-r   r-O   o-'o   e-no  gis  to O-Sr  o-    s-nI   r-o et                     os       u'e 'o
*m                       e-us e-r   m-sm oS-n   lmS  ele  o-cor o-t e-U 8  s-e o-me  e-wr e Olu    c'du  tUS  00   r-s    S-Sb  *ô                                WIS
ocre  o-      le-u  t-oe  c-rue o-o   o-o   m-ru e-us  r-o   s-s   s-mie e-smo s-o   e-us  6le-r       lm o-rn  e-n    e-sm   s-ns  rtr       t'o ous  e-e        V ei'O/0
o-i  o-o   o-l   el-ce  o-o   o-o   o-o   o-o   err   ro    o-o   vu   r-or  o-0   0-0   L-rr  vlS  r-o   0s-              lm  e-or  0-1      Cl9  ee6               qq-ee  1a IuBdI*0
01-»  01-   6-.U  -"9   V-    00   0-0   élu   I-Sb  1-1   *li   ela b-n                 gl    t'o   $l    L'utea      8    l'e el -tt   t-R    t'u   glus e8-§   8-*.1w
I'5 0-S01  0-t        I  1"01 * 0-      là"   IeM i*-S    '1-*1             lUnl  0111  0 O- t'1 rt1 *n l            O    8-   -I  S-01 une &I
-.qj   mue    ~ ~  .,jui  *0011              Ia    Iu                   'j f'e    n
o- as -W.l                      sec                       mie 0-#   r-e                                                                0.er
001050-t I4WU
Crs *-  -    -s
O0-  -8
qus m gzu wu
e-u ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~13 nEOMk oo   *-  -J  Uo o *    l#00 00 *n  r o  -  oMeZo        * e @       -         t t«



ANNEX 4
- 74  -                               Page  .of 36
A-1                               FISCALITE ET GESTION FDNWNCIERE LOCALE
Resu. de  cout.
(Frw\"W)
Loc.   DV.  ToUtI   Texe  Total
.................................
INVESTISSEMENTS
Mater     rolant                                       0   2544   2544    123   2096
Materlel Infor,u4  qu                                       2120   2120    127   2247
daterIel et mobti-er d  bureau                      1087   6049   7118    427   7S48
...................................
1067  10712  11780    707  12487
CHARGES RECURRENTES
Installation                                        6197       0   5197        0   6197
Fonctionnement                                     57407       0  67407    271  57879
...................................
62404       0  02004    271  62075
FORUATION                                              2756       O   2756        0   275ô
AUSSISTANCE TECHNIQUE                                 16982  23148  89110         0  89110
ETUDE DE LA PRESSION FISCALE                           2844       0   2644        0   2844
...................................
COUTS DE BASE                                         %4938  88881 118798    978 119772
IMPREVUS PHYSIqUES                                     6897   1071   7988        98   8 98
...................................
SO    TOTAL                                           91880  84932 126782   1076 127888
I:PREVUS FINANCIERS                                    9288   8114  12362   1197  18549
...................................
CU  TOTAL                                            1016    380    1311    227  14188



ANX 4
Pages5 of 36
Ilmm       e dmowé
lm0                                 1901                                1092                                 100                                 10                                98. 4_.
Iisg.                     OaSm      IkM.                      sa"       éis.                      lis.    lion.                         e.  _  _.                 _   _.
LM.  Dm.  Taxe Tuoi   La.  os.  Tem* Total  Lmc.  Os.  Tex. Teol  Lm.  Osi.  Ton Teoil  Lai.  i,.  Tfu  Toti  Lmu.  Oi.  T.m  robs
......  ..................................................................................................................................................................
Sis                                                              0               lISOS    O    O    O    O O O    O O  O O O    0    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    0 4 au     ISI
lirl.lfc1ua                                                      02120   11   50                     O    O    O      O    O  O                             O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    091                                                         UB
lrlui n.mbi.r i                                              .4U  2071   U  UW                       0    O  500 C0  10    0    0    0    O    ê    O    O    O    O    0    O                                                                              0          40  7803
........................................................................................................................................................................
SaT                                              447U4   4010140                                       un0 MW                  1 M               1804   O     0O    O4 0   0   0    0  e    wu o                                                                  oMW
1 Im.ieliço                                                  un    O    O  lN 0                                          3am0 un                  O    02o0    o    o    O    o    O    o    O                                                  0MW7    O    0  au
puala.f.i_                                                   4M00    O 2    49t7 m                                     O 0           1u074    0   7    10   74    0   7 t110  0m1                                                   4 _   NU  04                 O   in  w
........................................................................................................................................................................
S/T                                             s1i0    5                  SM2  1774 18400    0 17U80 14    O   70 0U410 U04    O                                                  0   8   311 mil1 a                              a               o   m   am
TTnmfm              S           50    0    0278                                                          O    O    O                     O O    O    O i                          O    O    O    O    O    O    O    0 un0    o    0  vu2
43017A00 YBDOU«S                                                    mi0  am            O  0 am                 720  1mm0  17798  un0  unS                       O  000   18   2103                  O  wu1            O        O         O        O100   0 0140 m            O *010
E-SIM IUCU                                                       2044    O                 0                      0                 0    0 e o    o    o    o    o    o                *            o    o    o                    e o    o   e 4    o   9U4
.................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................... 
Cam00ce0                                                        180 1440   404 508M                   1774 2M            740  me   2014470   10I t704  170  20                                      0 100   am                 O    41  NU                  0 0 _                 127
IUS RfVISm                                                       1100  T              4*  SM« In  LU     US  £79  IM   127   I7  lm   17    0    O  un    1    O    4   M                                                                                     07  MI   la NU
........................................................................................................................................................................
SmD TOAL                                                        1M7  Ulm                   LU 848 11 243 1am    °0 9mm  mm                                   LU  0 Mo                  3 au a0   0 m    0   4«  07 1O                                                     Ul0 1712
1108 FDI                                                          72  S»1    *4  a2m0  1S 1i                      0 "Ou     2lm       Mo       i414   96  am4  8101                        8    1   am0  i7    O    I 17  NU lm                                     4   1u  1t m
..............................................................................................................................................................                                                  ..................................................................... 
OSE TOTAL                                                       17400 10              W  31701  21    20S 10  4040 *0041  720                                  0    141 2               514   ç0  5171  1                       O    30  1   10  300 ma                         141mm
__    _    __    ____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-76-
ANX 4
Page6 of 36
0 .18$                            ~~~Fl8t111E ET CBIIIII fill CEUE  MEC
pu                                             LOCOLE Pa=    du   b     m  1 pra«St hm
v  et éuistom  tadmi4mpi
19O             1991             1992              1                199                T0TL        TOTAL
Flsc Io«Ft-loc nac Ilodbllc Flic locFuixc Flic  WIoF-ioc Fisc ldmin toc Fl6   looiF lo-cSo m
fl r  2 5                O    O    O    O                  O    O    O    O                    F0M1        0  S1
liea       0    1060         0        0       0        0       0        0        C       O        O    1060 lm    6m
lab     l061      681        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0    1061       68t    1742
co    710    lm              O        O       8        O                °                o      718    -6    12al
KIttb         O       0      710      576       0        0        0       0        0        0     710      576    1294
bau           O       0      710      576       0        0        0       0        0        0     710      576    1294
K1ua          O    O    O    O    0 429                               O            O    O    0  2    1
Rua.ge   O    o    e    o    042U                                 0    0    0    0    0  g42g
TI            O    O    O    O    0  318    0    0    a    0    0  318
4329    377   14          1152       0  1492           O       O        O        0  5759        021 117B
fost
Kig      1169      0    234         0        0        0       0        0        0       0  403            0  403
Na   6M             0 232    0    0   0                         O    O    O    0   300  CO 
O       0      129        O      6S        O        O       O        O       O      u0         0     300
O          0  1m         0     165        0       0        a        0       ô      So'        0     30C
1237       0      336       0O       0                 0       0        0        0    4903        0    4903
Fin e!   1425       O2    205       l6U      tu3     17m      202      179     1425      O2    1165      SM9    10449
Mg1 .2395         670    Z05    1235        014    1375      910    1483      395      677    3        5568    S72
ô       0      395      U       790      79      014      757    2395      36       9      222      4622
. 0,  8  8     3YC     269      790    7lm      8014       57      295     360    2294    2221    4622
ô.    O    O    O                       0 600    0600                      O    O    O  120lm0
O       O        O        O       0      600       ô      600        0       0        0    1200    1200
te"        O        O        O        O   0          330   o          330   o        0       0          660      660
dNl        O       O        O        O       0      330            o 320        ô       0        0     660      660
120    13    4430    2741    5329 6N 15    5562    66M7    2610    2232   19751                        025
3057    150      776      3741    5659    6405    5562    667    2610    2233   24654   20534   45180
.Oige    259       83   M5         165      294      170   302        179      U3        3    1566   679  225
_gaae     46       68      102   1i          91      138      91      148       40      68      30    557   917
irm        O        0       53      37       96       N4      el       7         0      3       29      23       *
lWb        O        0       53      37       96       fi      si       76       400         '37   269    223     4
Kam        0        0        0       0        0       60       0       60        0       0        ô      i20     12
hm         O        O        O       O        0      60        0       60       C        O        0     120      120
TMb        O        O        O       O   0            33       0       33        0       0        Q      66       66
mwIl        O       O        O       O        0       33       0       33        0       0        5      66       66
36  150   m                       $6 61  556    665 261   224  2465 2053    519
Lige   72 417    721   348                   2721                               2              3                M
lu           144     il       144      15      144      15       144     15       50      40
Kh        e 0 o     o       n72     50      14       115     1U       115     144      115      503     40       906
i         8        8                         s 8         3       8    a     s      8             8              f:
Tai.       o        o        o       o        o      32        0       64       0       64        0     159      159
%dli       O        O        O       O        0       32       0       64        0      64        0      159     159
432     352    1008       819    1152    1003    1152    1232    1153    1231    4097    4717    9614
otal    0119  58 2   109S             6006    777    9620    7270    054    4024    3693   37776   33325   71100
lqp ph       76      503      998     527      62       854     612      731      297     246    329      2061    6149
097    5685   119&5    6612    7999   10474    7992    8775    4311    3939   41063   3616   729
bp t        79       526    1463      en?    1335    1749    1684    1981    1130    1033    6406    6096   12502
%601    6411   12447    7419    mm   II            S5M    11256    5441    4972   47470 421
FOC        3S85    2005    955I    4924                        7270    0 54    4024    3693   3017         M



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 36
R 1.                                      6FISCALITE ET 6ESTION FINANICERE LOCALE
Prefecture de la ville de KIGALI
Previsions des couts hors Formation
et Assistance Technique
1990               1991            1992             1993          1994             TOTAL       TOTAL
FIsc locFin-lo: FIsc locFin-loc FIsc loecFin-loc Flac locFin-loc Fisc LocFin Loc FIsc îocFin-lc GENERA
Iiivuit
later  2544        0       0       0        0       O       0       0       0       0    2544        0    2544
mlicro     0    1060       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0    1060    1060
Kmb     1061     681       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0    1061      681    1742
3605    '741       0       O       O       O        O       O       O       0    3605    1741    5346
Fonct
Tep    1169        0    2834       0        0       0 0         0       0           0    4003        W    4003
Pera   1425      82$    2850    1650    2935    1700    3024    1790    1425      825   11659    6790   1849
2594     825    5684    1650    2935    1700    3024    1790    1425      825   15662    6790   22452
FOC         259      83     568      165     294     170     302     179      143      83    1566     679    2245
MRT         361     174     721     348      721     348     721     3a      721     348    3245    1566    4811
6919    2823    6973    2163    3950    2218    4047    2317    2289    1256   24078   10776   34854
I«P PUY     646     265     625     182     323      187     333     197     157      91    2083      921    3004
7465    3087    7599    2345    4272    2405    4380    2514    2445    1346   26162   11697   37359
ltlP FIN    667     276     927     286     713      401     732     421     409     226    3449    1610    506M
TOTAL      8132    3363    8526    2631    4986    2806    5112    2935    2855    1572   29611   13307   42918



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 36
A 1./3                                       FISCA.ITE Et QESTION FItNICERE LOCALE
BUTARE
Previsiois des couts hors Formation
et Assistance Technique
(000/f ru)
FIsc 1ocFin-loc Flsc locFin-loc FIsc locin-loc FIsc locFin-loc Fisc locFin lac FIsc lTTn-lc TEOAL
Insest
micro      0    1060        0       O       O        O       O       O        O       O       0    1060    1060
18       718     576        0       0       O       0        O       0       0        0     718     576    1294
718    1636       0        3       0       0        0       0       0       0      718    1636    2354
Fonct
Temp      68       0     232        0       0       0        0       0       0        0     300       0      300
Peru     395     6T8      790    1355     814    1375      910    1483     395      677    3304    5569    8872
463     678    1022    1355      814    1375      910    1483     395     677    3604    5568    9172
F0G          46      68      102     136      81      138      91     148       40      S8     360     557      917
AMORT        72      178     144     355     1'4      355     i'w     355      144     355     647    1598    2245
1299    2559    1268    1846    1039    1868    1145    1987       579    1100    5329    9359   14688
IMP PHY     123     238      112     149      90      151     100     163       43      74     468     77      1244
-~~~--- ------------------- 
1422    2798    1380    1995    1129    2019    1245    2150       622    1174    5797   10135   15932
ItP FIII    127     250      168     ,43     188     337      209     360      105     197     798    1388    2185
TOTAL      1549    30X8    1549    2.38    1317    2356    1454    2510       727    1371    6595   11523   18118
…_- -                                     … - ----- ------- -   -- ----      … -



- 79 -
ANIEX 4
A .1/4                                       FISCALITE ET GESTION FINAtICERE LOCALE                           Pajge9  of  36
RUHENGERI
Previsions des C2ut5 hors Foruation
et Assistance Technique
(000/f rw)
1990               1991            1992             1993          1994             TOTAL       TOTAL
Flsc locFin-loc FIsc loeFin-loc FIsc locFin-ilc FIsc locFin-loc FIsc locFin-loc FIsc locFin-loc GENERAL
Inwat         O       0     718    576        0        O       O       O       O       0     718      576    1294
Fonct
Temp       O       O     135       O      165       0       0       0       O             300        0     300
Perc       O       0     395     368     790      735     814     757     395     366    2334    2227    4621
O       0     530     369     955     735      814     757     395     368    2694    222?    4921
FD6           0       0      53       37      96      74      81      76      40      37      269     223     492
MtORT         O       0      72      59      144     115     144     115     144      115     503     403     906
O       0    1373    1038    1194     924    1039      948     579     519    4148   3429    7613
IIIPPHY       0       0     130      98      lus      81      90      83      43      40     36       303     671
O       0    1503    1136    1299    1005    1129    1031      622     560    4553    3731    6284
Iii FIN       O       0     183     139     217      168     189     173     105      95     695      574    1269
tTOAL         O       0    1686    1275    1516    1172    1318    1204      727     654    5247    4305    9553
… … -                  _ ---- - ---   -    - -   - - - -   - --  -  -  _                -  - __--



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 36
A 1./5                                       FISCALITE Et CESTION FINANICERE LOCALE
GISENYI
Provisions des couts hors ureation
et Assistance Technique
<000/fru)
1990               '991             1992             1993          1994              TOTAL      TOTAL
FIsc loeFin-loc FIsc locFin-lac FIsc locfin-loc FIsc locFio-loc FIsc locFin-loc FIsc locFin-loc 6ENEI
Invust        O       0      718     576       0       0        0       0       0        0     718     576    1294
Fonctt
loup       O       O      135       0     165       0        0       0       0              300       0      300
Per        O       0     395    368       790 7 35          14  57       35         36   94    227 4 621
O       0     530     368      955     735     814      757     395     368    2694    2227    4921
FOC           0       0       53      37      96       74      81      76       40      37     269     223      492
AiORT         O       °       72      58     144      115     144     115      144     11      503     403      906
"wlP PHY      8        8   1R    lO3S  lie          924    1093    94d       579      519    4184    3429    7613
IMP PHY                                  90              43       qo~~~~~~~~~~~4    36   30  71
INP FIN       8       8                                       laS 19  1073    622      $0    S55      371    B 9 
TOTAL         O       0    1686    1275    1516    1172    1318    '204       m        654    5247    4305    9553
NB:    Coaune            Town
Nogua           lutare
Kisoobe         Ruhengeri
RuZavu     6Cisenyi
Komoube         Cyamgugu
Rutonde         Rwuagana
Tuba            Ruhan o
Nkuli           Rulhufra



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
A-2                         CREDIT INTERCOMMUNAL DE DEL EPage       of 36
Rcum  deo coute
(Frw\ 'OU
Uon.         Sous
Loc. Dcv. Total Tèxe Total
INVESTISSEMENTS
motterel roulant                     O   211?   2117    127   2244
Materlel informtique                 O   2117   2117    à?7  2244
Amnag .mnt de bureau              1828      O   1828      79   1402
Mat erll et mobtlier de bureau      79    ô11    690      41    781
1402   4844   6240    876   6021
CHARGES RECURRENTES
Fonctionnement                   89188      a  89188      59  89197
FORMATION                               O   4004   4804       O   4004
COUTS DE BASE                       40640   9448  49988    484  W422
IMPREVUS PHYSIWUES                   4054    946  4999      48   6042
SOUS TOTAL                          44594  10898  54987    477  564c4
IMPREVUS FINANCIERS                  -?18    ses   C918     29   6947
C O2     9      91.............................
COUT TOTAL                          499 7  10978  MMS0      607 01412



AIIIB 4
Page 12 of 36
A .2                                                                                              aEDITrr âw80501_L DE e
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                                       __________ _< n                                o o
1990l                           1991                             190l                             lm                              1994                          TfAl.          .
Loc.   Dv.   taxe  Totl    Lc.   Dv.    Tr*  ToWl   Lac.  D0..   Tén.  Total   Lac.  DO.                           nl..  Trotal    ac.   0w.   Torm   Totl   La.    Dm.   Tama  TFtal
_N  T R    u                            ........................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................. .............................
obt9wi. rulm,                              01             64 112           0  lm0          4 1122    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0  nu                                                        7  M4
ilotriel .formq                            0  21    122 m            v4    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0  m17    m    n4
Ahs.s?s..dte bur.a                     9lm         0      79   lm          0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0   1m          0      Pl   14«Q
labwtiel eltt hwt_ t1 lep de b            79      11      41    731         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0      79    61        41    781
1402  8710  811a                    O  100m   64 12                                                              0 0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0  un1 4U4    m  7       1
Fon"_.Waoal                            8914        0       O   DM   11741           0      1»  117a.   11741        0      1U  11700  11741          0      1i  117»         0       0        0       0  Mun          O       M   r17
RTU»I                                         O  1801    0 2li                 0 1l            0182    0  lm80    0  nu                         O    O    O    O    O    O    O    0'   0  404    0  464
........................................................................................................................................................................
«2DE SM                                     01     8187    87  IO0  11741   290               81  147     11741   10           1M  IS1     11741        O      a8      0         0       0       0       04MM40    WU           44  MM
8 5   F)rts11                                m          s u    2       0   174         0   SMo 12    U74    180                 2      14   1174 *      O       2   1178        O        0 2             o   404   0us           46   un
........................................................................................................................................................................
m  VOTUA.L                                 USES   Sll4 am      9  11m         12m 14 mu S     i   le 11«0  l1291     1819       0  1U 4  11e            o      20  129           o       o       o       o  44        1         47   am
D_Xum1iWu1                                  m68   m    U   49W 11M    -                             1    10 am                  S a   l        S        O    8  27                    s          O    O                8u m    20  0oo o4
COJt lUL                                   f1       Md       m    1287   140        am        97  1780   148         Un        21  197  189             O      21                O       O       O 0         40«W     1M         07  01412
t



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
A-8                                             EPARME LOCEMM                         Page  13 of 36
Regume des coute
------- -(trv /o
mon.            Soun
Loc.    Dev.  Totai       Taxe   Total
CREDIT LOGEMENT
Progrue_ PAP et ertl1mn0 1260884                O 128884         O 1268084
Aut4et                           142476         S  142470        0  142470
....................... .................
1410615           1410610        e 1410510
CHARGES RECURRENTES                    2427    106    8488           a    848
FORMATION                              4222  1888    21108          0   2116R
ETUDES                                 2111   10e4   12065          0   12L
.................... ....................
COUTS DE SASE                      1419270   28496 1447765           0 1447766
IMPREVUS PNYSIrQEs                      87a    2860    8725          0    8725
........................................
SOUS TOTAL                         1420146   81846 1461490           0 1461490
I:PREVUS FINANCIERS                 198098    2S27  20620            0  200620
........................................
CWUT TOTAL                         1818288   33872 1862110           0 1462110



ANIEX 4
Page 14 of 36
A *J                                                                                    EPe UI.O4
_ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _     _  _  _     _  _    _  _     _  _____________________<______m_______0>
1990                        11                         1992                       1993                      19114                     TOTAL OAL
~~~o.                 oS.               Sow    No.                 Seu    No.                Sou    l.                  Su        o.
Lms.  Ds%.   Tas. Tal   La.  Dr.  T.ou  Talhi  .a.  Do,.  T.am  TIIl  La.  Do,.  Tous 'oteS   Lm.  Dur.  Tou* Talal   tac.  Os,.  Tésq Talfi
.............................................................................................................................................................................
Pograe PoP. Aritu     12UMM         0       o 12o   3170                0 170  31700    OO        0 °8170  8170       0      0 8170  1906        0      0 1900  Ldom         O      0 O2W04
AUqw»                        O     O       O     0       0      0     O         ~ 4              04mm         496    0      04MW  473           O      04274314 14          0      0 144M
.............................................................................................................................................................................
12'm       O       O M20870             O     0 à17000  38ff M           0 M       MM687 0             MM  O O          0      0 MM  141510                0 1M060
OS       4 RET                114   8M         0  1741   1114    m        0  1741       0                                                                                                   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 242   106315  O 34
1AT lOUI  4m                                  0  Sm    2111  844a        0  MM 410160 4M            0  am        O      O      O      O     O      O      O     O   410 il            0 2110
E71XES0 O                                 O       O     O           0                 %mlZOeU4      0  O12«6     0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0    1t111 6t4        0 1a
cS oewE cm0207   474                           OU Umm  3mm         71     O329 370041   14M          O  4IT nom67        O      O6    243           0      02MM  141«M0  219          0 1477
DUe fiIS                      07   470  0          70 m     m0    m7      0   M1 0    317  1470      0 1794       0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      m74 0l        O   0a2m
SMS TOTAL                           am 04      O 1MM   mm   lm            O 3       870   1126       O O631   38         O      O 3672304           O      0 21104  U=1460 814         O 145
DRSU FDWECI                  807   2Ml         O   MO  27m0   6m          O  mm7  4         lm           49026 04878     O      0  348   610 OU   2       0 0    0UI 1_        27      O 20000
CWt TOTAL         1# 116  am                   0 140103 3409   10il       0 600  418600 17 S   0 463  4312M0                    0 481MS4770         O      0247   2010  3M0e           O 1800
1__



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Page 15 of 36
B-1                  MONTAGE DES SERVICES DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN
Resu.. de, cou"t
mon.          Su
Loc.  D.v. Toa        Taxe   Total
SERVICE DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN
Iou or: Ioaux                 2798      0    2798    167    2965
Mater.    ntO  14442   14442    au6  15808
Matr lI d  breau.         2655   8988    66S      4e5    7048
Ag nc.oent d  bureau          416U      0    4156    248   4U04
.....................................
9809  1842;  280U   186   29720
C Peresonnelurete9502                     O   gogo,      a   90582
fournitures et entretien     28344      0   23344   1401   24746
Amortiassemnt                18884      O   18884      O   18884
127810      0  127810   1401  129212
S/Total                     187419  18426  166845   9887  168982
SERVICES TECHNIQUES
Invtisut
Ibler: lcaux             77668      O   7768U   4659   82822
Uter oi"roulant                  0   5665    566s    840    6008
Mtrie  dbueu1448   1764    8207    198    8400
Abgencement ~. bureau2257               O    2267    18s6    289
Mtr lo   o  i                     51016   51016   8061   54076
Mater leIaa  ieeet0  20877   20877   1288   22129
m                    crie r orures f ngere      60144   60144   8SM   68168
Eq p   nt              elr           84      8946    287    4182
Equl pesan etuda.      au       0     684     se      672
81997 188411  215408  12926  2288s8
Chre.recu.rete118782                      O  118782      0  118782
Fournitures et entrti       104696         10496   6282  110977
Amorti enmeut                66162      0   06162      0   66162
.....................................
289689      o  288689   6282  296921
S/Total                     871686 188411  505047  19207  624264
ASSISTANCE TECHMI4JE                    O  8sB79   88879      o   88879
FORSMTION                          187206 190611  827717   202 9829748
COUTS DE BASE                      646262 a80f20 1026988  24820 105808
IMPREVUS PHYSIRJES                  6e22  84285   90886   2482   98288
S/Total                     702884 414981 1117846  2e762 1144697
IMPREVUS FINUNCIERS                 97240  44647  141787   862s 146816
COUT TOTAL                         800124 469608 1259682  80281 1289918



-86 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 16 of 36
O .1/1                                            SOU KIGLI
Rmme des couts
-                      S~~     ~     ~~~~on.  Soul 
Loe.  Dev. Tot!        Taxe   Tot l
SERVICE DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN
Invest  tsent
IveMOieg r: Iqeaux               2798       o    2798    167    2965
Maotr *I routent                  0   ISS5    1650       9B    1649
Mater *I! de bureau             209    818      621     a2    658
Agencement de bureau            710       O     710     42      752
.....................................
8716   1869    5686    Usa    5920
Charges recurrentes
Personnel                     81894       0   81894       a   81884
Fournlture  et entretlen       895s       o    8965   287    4192
Amortissement                  1640       0    1640      o    1640
.....................................
87489      o   87480    287   87727
S/Total                       41206   1869   48074    572   48648
SERVICES TECHNIPE
Investies  nt
I,mob Il gie:Iux              44908       0   44988  2694   47897
Maer *.  rouint                   o   U56  5s U        840    6906
aer 1   de bureau            1448   1764    8207    198    8400
Agencen fnt * bureau           2257       0    2257    186    2898
Mater!. ^  vol r *                   61016   51016   806I   54076
Mterel assO* ainissement          0  20877   20877   1258   22129
M r eI. *  ordures menagere       0  40694   40694   2442   43188
Equ Pement garage *e atelier      o   2782    2782    167    2949
Equipeonteetude                   o       0       o       O       0
.............
246817      o  246817   5450  25176i7
S/Toe  l                     294926 122797  417101  15785  48 581
CWUTg DE BASE                       886126 124686O  460792  16807  477089
IMPREVUS PNYSIQIJES                   27565S  124687   89971   1681   41602
S/Total                      868681 187188  560768  174 88  918721
MPREVUS FINAN2CIERS                  48107  14864   62472   2274   64746
.....................................
COREUS TOTAL    ER                   41179  S148#    s24a6  20274  6s447
] __ _ - -~~~~~~.                            . .. . . ..  . .. . . .. . . ..  . .



-87 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 17 of 36
B .1/2                                  SOU CENTRES SECONDAIRES
6utar.,Ruheng.ri *. Gcisnyl
Resu des coute
Mon.          Sous
Loc.   D-v.  Total  Taxe  Total
...................................
SERVICE DE OEVELOPPEMT URBAIN
Investl sn.te
Imm'o"beI r:lqceux                 O       0      O       0      a
Mater ic  rou *nt                  e   7472   7472    448   7919
Ma eter*l de bureau             1969   2938   4896    299   6195
A9gencemnt de bureau             926       0    926      66    980
...................................
2084  10409  18298    802  14096
Charq c recurrentes
peronnel                       soseo       o  60808       0  60808
Fournitur« et entretien        14499       0  14499    870  15389
Amortiss.e.nt                   9007       0   9007       0   9007
...................................
74818      0  74818    870  76183
S/Totci                        77197  10409  87006   1872  89278
SERVICES TECHNIQUES
InuaeobIII,'er: I ux           82780       0  82760   1986  84725
lI.er *  roulent                   0       0      0       0      0
Heer e  de bureau                  O       0               0    0
Agenc,qnt de bureau                O       O      O       O       O
Mater *levoir]'                    0       0      0       0      0
Mtrie111ssct8n i seme nt         O       O      O       O      O
Meterie, . ordures Mne                  9460   9460    687  10018
Equ pement,garag. et a   I*er      0   1168   1168       70   1288
Equ  p"einent etudes            s84        o    684    s8    672
...................................
a8894  I0s61   44007   2B40  48648
Charaerecurrent.ss
Personnel                       22788       0  22788       0  22788
Fournitur« et entretion        ls886       0  18861    882  14892
Amortissement                   6728   5       6728       0   6728
...................................
43822      0  48322    882  441654
S/Total                        78716  10618  87829   8472  901
...................................
COUTS DE BASE                        168918  21028 174988   6144 180080
IMPREVUS PHYSIQES                      18818   2102  15921    614  18485
...................................
S/Total                       167781  28126 190868 s858 198616
I1MPREVUS FINCIERS                    26264   2267  27621    818  288a8
...................................
COt0T TOTAL                          192986  26392 218sa7   8471 2248us



- 88 -                            aXof3
SVU AUTRES CENTRES
Cyungugu,R  ug na,Ruhanpo *t e ukaira
Rem 7eeL¢°IAe
EC:   Dov. Tot l   Taxe  Total
....................................
SERVICE DE DEVELCPPENENT URBAIN
Invoet eeps nt*e
ImmiI.:Iceux                               i      a      a       O
iat*r*  rouant                    0    U416   S416    826   S740
mater oI d  bureau              488      782   1220      74   1296
Agen ement d  bureau           2621        O   2521    161   2672
8009    0147   9158    S60   9706
C.rsonn                         7881        O   7801      O   7881
Fourniture  et  ntreti-n       4890        0   4880    2      861887
=mrtiss...nt                   82-17       a   8287       O   8287
........... .. ........... ........... 
isoO 1os    e      08   293  l0801
$/Total                       117    0147  26104    84a  20007
SERVICES TECHNIQES
ers  t  ceux                   O       0      a       0      0
aerial roulant                    e        8      e      e       e
M     aele  de bureau           e       O       O      a       e
Ag.n¢c fn wt de bureau            O        0      a      O       O
"tr    * |i-s _ nt              0       0       8      0       8
N   r*1orur      MI s    *r     O          O       O      O 
-aterlelvoiriea     O      O      O       O
eqOnn    t                        O        O      0      e       e
Fourniture et  ntreti-n           O        e      O      e       e
ortius.eet                        e0       a      e      O       e
S/Tota I                                   e      e      e 0
. ...................................
cours DE BASE                        19017    0147  26104    848  2^d07
IVREVUS PHYSIQUES                      1S78     o15   2198      84   2277
....................................
S/Tote l                      205W5    6702  27857    927  28284
ITPREVUS FTNANCIERS                   8852      707   4119    189   4268
COUT TOTAL                           28947    7629  81470   1067  a2642



- 89 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 19 of 36
8 .1/4                    SDU ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE ET FORMATION
Re«um don cou"-
__ - _____ --------- _----------         (f "/00r0) 
Mon.         Sous
Loc.  D-v. TotaI   Txe   Tot*I
.....................................
ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE                    a  U8879   88879      0   a8879
FORMATION                          187208 190511  827717   2026  829748
COUTS DE BASE                      187oOS 22882W  80^e97  2028  868122
IMPREVUS PHYSIQUES                  18721  19061   82772    208   82974
SOUS TOTAL                        1l0927 247941  898868   2228  401096
IMPREVUS FINANCIERS                 20826  27149  47676    803  47979
COUT TOTAL                         171486 276091  44^oS44   2S81  449076



ANNEX 4
Page 20 of 36
<rTE OE SuîCU OE OVDEL.OeP_  URBAI
ReOu dm cout.
Annuel Iaat;ojn
1990                          1991                           1992                           199S                           1994                         TOTAL COemAL
mn                    Sou.    Mn.                    Scu     Hn.                   Sous    Mon,                   Sou      mon.                  Som      Han.
lOc   De.    Taxe  Total   Loc.   De..   Taxe  Totel   Loc.  DOe.   Taxe  Total   Lec.   Oe.   Taxe  Total   Loc.   Osa.   Taxt  Total   Loc.   Oea.   Tox. Total
.........................................................................................................................................................................
SVIE DE OD.EUoPEMEn tRDt
Inv.tiae.entx
l_"i I ier locaux                lm9       0      84   1488   1899               84   1463        0      o       o       o       o      O       O       o      o       4       o       0   2790       o    17    2908
Haterlel roulent                    O   204      159   2004        0   Sn.    220  ssç2           o e676    400   707            0   lm4        si   l4                O       O       O       O  14442  eee 
Hatariel de bureau                390    597  e1   100    1077   leu0    164   2es7   1068   187    lo    20e                   2       8      19    M4         O      O       O       0   2       S9M      406    7048
Agencement de burx                86e       o  S8        621  ô17          O     49  see   212            o    127 2249          0       o     8s               O      O       O       O   418        o    240      404
.........................................................................................................................................................................
230    Sm248    B86   8984   3294 8a 82 a       28   9190 810 e2es      6a      0  12181    752   M8         187   2420       o       O       O       0   9009   8428   SM0   290
Chaerge   recurrentée
Personnel                        96         O      0   965  118            0      0   8loi8  2o          0       O  288    28828  0  o              25Am  14927        o       0  14927  902          0       0    002
Fourniture  et entretien         204S       o    128   21U    Sm00         0    2SS   4192   e6s9        0    894   6964   0509         o    894   0964   42S          o    2"    48   2 4            0   1401   24748
A.rtia_eent                      1147       0      0   1147   2211         0      0   2211   897          o      O   397         7 SO           o   sst    28St        o       0   2818  184          0       0    11104
.........................................................................................................................................................................
18058       O    US8  18177  242SS         O    23d  24488  8484         O    894  84748  34Ss4         0    894  8747*  21818         0    256  22070 t    81        O   1401 0e92
S/Total                         154     SM24     4a1  19141  27829   s802    75    MW?7  87584   68   1002  460  85106   1887    802  37175  2MIS                      0    286  22070 187419  1842S   807 
SV3IcU T0UE5
Inveat  Ie.n
lobitier:locaux                  oui        O    389   9819  22452         o   1847  28799  29SSl        O   1791  l1t2  U6i0           o    915  17862        0       °       °       0  77008       o   4609      _        D
atari.l roulat                      0   2808     170   30S         0   2S83     170  304          O       O      O       O       o       O      O       O       O      o       O       O       0            84 U0   80e       >
ateriel de burau                  722    862       98   1700       O       O      O       O    722    82        98   1700        0          O       O       O      O       O       O  014 8 1704            191t   8OO
Abnc  et dx bursou              1i9         0     es  1196   129           o     c8   119t        0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0       0   22S7       0    116    2sa6
aterihl volrie                      O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O       0  2600     1S0 270SS          0  25s0e   188270SS            O      O       O       O       0  S101     8061 m i47e
atariel .ainlaee                    O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O       O  10xt80    020  0to6         O  1Om8    020  1100S          O      O       O       O      o  2iu007   I2U    2212
Obteriel ordures o enu grun         o       O       O      o       0  208t47   szn  216U"         O  2s072   1804  20s77         0   4725    284   sO09         o      o       o       0       o  80144   SM00    58185
Equipamnt gargee  t atelier         O       O      O       O       O   1891      84   1478        o   1972    119   2091         0    ag1      8      a16      o       o       o       o      O   8948i   2S7    4182
EWIp.ent etude, i                           O      O o           817       0     19    386    817        0      19    8tS        o      o       o       o      o       o       o       O    684       0      S8      872
.....................................................................        .................................................................................................... ........................................................... 
10081   8715    878  18418  2307  24871   2900  51370  So0S9  6387s   Sb86 c10440  16800  41253   SM48   81090                 o       o       o       0  01997 185411  129          2231S1S
Chasre recurrenta
Perannel                         9604       0      o   9604  14407         0      0  14407  S7909        o       O  8790  8790          0       0  87909  189bt        O       O   89l 4 11m7l        o       0  102
Fourniture, et entretien         90S        O    m48   9628                O     16  14448  3279S         O   190  54762  S2798            0 l     ff 34782  168      ô    984  17081 104698         0   c2m2  11097
A*Drti a et                      8944       0      0   944   0915          o      0   991   20621        0       0  208n  20S21         0       o  20821  1S2OM        0       o  10260  612          o       O   06102
..........,...............................................................................................................................................................
24832       0    u4s  28177  86940         o    01   s877     91224      0   1960  9019   91214         0   18  9e192  4S812           O    984  46806 209689         ô   oS  291
S/Total                         85402   871U   1416  4059   60845  24571   8720  89141 1918  68078   70d4 193040 107604  41258   s425 184202  45S2                     0    s8c  46ss0 37160  1n5411  19207  824
ASSiSTDMC TBh A                             O   3b         O   SSSt        o   9895        O   9898       0   9SCS       O   9898        O   9S98       O   95         O   S7m7        0   57s7       o   8037        O   30t79
ORATION                                S721  1901    208  82974  34802  47620    M6O  82t43   34802  47620    006  82436  84802  47628    50S  82486  20501  20377    M04  49461 187200  9o0I1   2020  3S274S
.........................................................................................................................................................................
CO     CE OESA6E                        64821  2904    2061  98849 12267   0717m         4908 214889 198949 129I 89   9248 832S80 177011 104C42   6484 285487   M88c4   34334    844 1254 d48262 307M8  24S20 105130
DOEUS  tff4YSliS                        5758   2601    2086   652  1118    775n     499  19412  18947  11976    924  29040  1                9042    646   4941   7818   2858        14  1062S  862  s234s   2482   9M
.........................................................................................................................................................................
S/Total                         70074  82447   2209 106111 1303   94904   s847 2S4264 2WS96 141U 3   10167 S82J09  28 109064   7110 806429  9519  37191   1699 184409 70264 414981  26702 114457
DE           FD0CISM                     31U    1250   1O     4820  11618   O8         47   10276  27471  14u28   124  48424  3787  15619   1248   0604  21252   0087    870  287  97240  44547    829  U141
.........................................................................................................................................................................
CWT  MM.A                               7aNo  ss7r4    2s9  109SS uU45if  101119    sMs  2S252  2etts6  15S9S    11491405    22S00  124S7                8SS  s50=t  116771  4ffl9    20n7 u2ss  SCOW 46s60    S02S  120ss91t
_   __ -- -   -  _----_ - - --- -    -- - - -    -  --  -_ ---- --    -  -- ----    __ -----------------_-_-



ANNEX 4
Page 21 of 36
* .1/1                                                                                                               6DU KIrnLu
Ress  de. coue
Annuel Ieutoen
____  --_-_--_ --_-_ _ -------- _-_----_        _---_      _--_--_---_            _-_   __   __  __  __  _              _   __    ._ __   __ . __        __   ___-_ -_----__r__                         __0
1990                             1991                           1992                          199                           1994                         TOTAL Œ#R3AL
mmn,                   Sous      ion.                  Sc"      Mmion.                Sme      M.                    Sobu     Mm.                   Som      Mn.
Lac.   0ev.    Teno  Total       Lac.   Dev.   Taxe  T'atl    Lac,   0ev.   Te   Total   Lac.  eD.   Teno  Total   Ltc.   Dev.   Tees  Total   Lac.   Dev.   Taire  Total
.............................................................................. .....................................................................  ...................  ...........................................  ........ ...............................
SMIOE DE iEVE0PPB<T 1A1U1
Ilbliisr:Ilacux                  1899       O      84    1448    U19         0      U        14t    O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       0 029           O    167    2918
Matériel relmt                      0    778        47    824        0    778       47    824       0       0       0      0       0       0          O       O       O       O      O       O  08m            9S    1U49
Ibtrio el de   burwou             104    lit        16    277        o       o       o       o    104    tit       10    277       0       0       0      O       o       O      O       O    2C      ais      S2      au
Agmec t de   bue,u                3S65      0       21    876      SS6       0      21    874       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0    710        0     42      7S2
l8e    984       167   24t0    1754    778    152 2e   ea4               18       0    277        O   m          o       o       o      o       o    o      Silo710  J180           0am
Chesgés  .currenl
Pmarnnl                          4794       0        0   47S4 7973           O       0978 7978              O       0   978   797S         O       0   W978   810         O      O   819  184            0      0  81 4
Fourniturs et etretien              b       l t         S24        98        O      89   lm       Qu        O      89   1048       9       0  S9   1me0  S9t 0                  24    419   SM85         0    287    4142
Aortl   set24 240                                         24t      410       0       O    410    410        0       0    410    410        0      0    410    104         0      0    104   lm40         O      O      lm40
...........................................................................................................................................................................
am2S       O      8    am        9372       0     89   94        87        O      59943982                0     8    942  8749          0      24   S778  7409         0    2S7  737
S/Tatai                          74S2    984      20S   s01i   11i12       778    211  iU115   9477    U           7t. 9700   9072         0     39  494t2    749         0     24   S77M  416   1*19    S72   404
S9VZCE Te8IIt
invetisesott
Il_b disercaux 0rw                          O     839   08919    ma42        0   1847  287    1471          0    o0u   14279       0      O       O       O       O      0       O       0  4408        0   20      47597
fitorisl rulent                     0   288        170   30          0   20805    170   30          O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O       0                    00 U  dOaOl   c
iteviel d  bur                    722    sb2        941700           O o        o           o    722       s2     4 9   1700       o       o      o       o       o      o       0       0  144S   17U4    190    u4O
Aenceent de burau                I29        o       6S   1194    1i2        o     6    1194        o       o      o       o       o       o      0       o       o      o       o       d   2          o    180    2sst9
Nterierl voars                      o       Io       o      o        o       o       o      o       0  250      l8 027 0              2sstis   1O  X2702S         o      o       o       o       0 6101       m01   at0
tltrtil entou_r4                    O       O        O      O        O       O       O      O       0  104tS    024  11065         o  104»0   030  110u0          o      o       o       o       o  20677   1        2012
Itbe4rhi ordures seneeres           O o              O o             o  20t47    221  21100         o  20047   lm21  218a          o       o      o       o       o      o       o       o       o  40694   2440   48180
E6upest gs rCr   *o et              O       O        O      O        018 0  0            1591  6 41478  01 1      84  1478         o       o      o       o       o      o       o       o       0   27 2    le7    2949
Oiquipeement tudes                  O       O        O      O        O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O        O
...........................................................................................................................................................................
10081   8718      878  Ii48   2st00  24S71   2s00   81040  14192  MM_            e 48e  77m24      o  S40   2t7  sales            o      o       o       o  4e0s 1I2797  is   1>'4
Chergés racurrentes
Persoel 9rt404                              o        o   9404   14407        o       o  14407  20018        o       o  20      20mis       o      o  2018  l4407         o       o  14407  960s44       o         O 9004
Fourniture , t e"htiê t0 4                        848   9020   128           o    018  14448  27280         o   105 2ltiS     2780        o0   US  200   1e2m            o    01   1444  904            o   mm    lie
Aortiaee                        S944        o       o   844    a4u6          O          o0  e4u  702        o      o  1I72  17003         o       o  102 r    0910               o 0t91s   949          o o m00 48
................................................................................................................................. ..........................................
24tis2      o     848  20177   8094          o    818  87700  789               le8  7logo   708           o          7880  8_4          o    aie  775 ami?                  8M   251707
8/Talal                         840«2   871i    1418  4060   00M2  24571   870    MM    M0M0   MM    00  1M                    7?098  a4    3792 11t0tS 3an4a            o    U     877   2049    222797  i         4384
. . . . . . . . . .    .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...........   ........  *&. ...  Xo ...: .vv.+. ........ ... .. ... ..
aurs CE a48                            42944   4049    182i  4s114   71084  2ss40   3910 100920  978     O8722 I         00   1M20   0 I7   5404   88                 4009 s  _41  41331     1i                     1u"   47w99
I     iS  7WSIs5                       3a78   4oe         103   4302 4    2M  0    288    392   9189   70    SM72    O            14412   0o8t  ss4s    00   1042 lo  812        o     84    Wti 270         7 128    1     41U02
............... .................................................................................................................................................. .........
S/Total                         40019   8114    1708  0510   77i87  27m          4310 a100o  M06449   MM    04 1707 un           770  0941   42tt u1t7  430_             0    425  44714  MM1  18711   7l3i  S018O1
ill          4 FMICIMi                  2097    19S        10   2870    S700   U17    S74   89M   18742   00M0    871  2i1290  it62   NUIS    748   MM10   9M7                  O    2t   94U  4t109  14U04   2274   U740
................................................................................................ T..........................................................................
CllR TOTAL                             48717    5Fi2    Utb  MM14     MMN   2970tt    45U  1140S  14StM   7itt8            755  4  t I MIMM    41124   449» tSC10    Sli3t       O    lUl  64747 4117» 9It5it          2921    1"4t



ANNEX 4
Page 22 of 36
0 .1/9                                                                                                             CEWn»  0oeA M
feeeu  des aom
Annualietiaol
_f rn/0)__ _ _
199                             1991                           1499                           1998                           1994                        70743.       M
l~o.               Boue      Nrn.                  Oawe    i~n.                   Sou      Ibn.   S9us    MM.                        Sou                 Mm. Te&
Ior.   0ev.    Tree   blet       Loo.   Dne.   Ton.  Total   Ler.   0ev.   Ton. Total   La.   0e.   Tair  Toel   lm.   DwV.   Te   Total   Lm.   D".  Tr«    Total
................................................................................................. ..........................................................................
M= Ce e   eVMNPr UR&UN
1Zîîke:rtî mam                      O       O        O      0        O       0      0       O       O       O      0       O       O       O      0       O       0       O      O       0       O      O       0 7
Noefleril rnelnt                    01000          111   lm0          00109        1798310          02018         157   2r.'2      O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O       0  747       440      Me
Noteriel d  bureau                294    441        4      79    1071   111    1SU        1        M      es1      90   lm         O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O   18    20          m1   819
Ae _   t *nde burea   0                             14    2        40        O      a      m0      m        O      14     m        O       O      O       O       O       O      O       0      m        O     a       10
M2S  2lJ9       17100              18404               un1ait 01                m 0 4            0              O       0      O       0       O       0   00u 0      M00   '0    10 
Clwree  ecurmte.
Permonw.l                         m1       O           0        101oi       0          10182  mm                   0  mm   lm             0          1o7 10      2 o ma  0      0  i1     am            O           am
orn"tlru  et  nt,r.ien           140   °            67   17    20            0  0174  J074         0        0     m    am    un            0     m     un       0         0    174   »74  O              0    im    mm
rt_molemamn                       001                      m1 1101                   0   nu120              O    0  2O 2                  Z       020           mi               0 101 007               0    0   «001
...........................................................................................................................................................................
741        O       0?   7818   MM                174      75   mm          O     m1   M7    1            O      m    wu        M        O0   174  uI   741              0     m    mm
8/Total                          70   2:           3W   MM    IMM    MU4 W4   25    1907                         4         1 78            O    2MM  71411  wu   "M       O     70 14       7 7  1MM0   1U7    »77n
Iblliert:le.                        o       o        e      o        o       o       o      o  1tom         o     m   1780   MW           O      MW  1730         0      0       0       0  mm10        O   lm    "M
»rial r.lealt                       O       O        O      O        O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O       O       O       O      O        O 0
écotarsel de buree                  0       o        o      o        o       o       o      o       o       o      o       o       o      o       o       o       o      o       o       o       o      o       o           
enc, t de bureau                    O       O        O      O        O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O        O
oteelelvoirie.                      O       O        O      O °      °      ° O      O      O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O
Nterlet seémiieement                O       O        O      O        O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O       O       O      O       O        O
materielerdurv eeneeree             O       O        OO     0                0      O                   470      24   0am              475       m    KM0         0      0       0       0       0   i00    87   10
e"l.mnt "    g   e    leor t O Oellep  J    O        O      O        O       C       O      O          081  Ua           au        O    001      a       U       O       O       O       O       O   1»        70    lm
Wquipe.ent,tOb"                     O       O        O      O S     1m       O      19     M       17       O     10      mS       O      O       o       O      O       o       o       o     m        o      a        m7o
....................................................................................................... ....................................................................
O    O          o    O  0?7    0   19  8001007 M U                    07 M  1W M204 1000  MU7  UOI                           O    O    O    0 am m10m    0  40a
0.ere e recrrente
Peceoumnel                          O    O           O    O          O    O    O O9098    O                          9O0009000            O O     0  on 440                      0 440mm                O    0Olm
Fourture  et entreien               O       O        O      O        O       O       O      O   am44        0     mW    871 #      4 0      J m77 un                     O    la    am   1 1            0      M      4
Amtlee o                            O       O        O      O        O       O      O       0 98                0  0  20020               O       0O20            1148       0  0   lm                  O       O    02
........................................................................................................................................................ ...................
O    O          o    o           O    O    O    Oî lO                  O   m17 1720  J                      M1700  NU04    O   m8  au mm                            0           44mao
8/7.1.1                             o       o        o      o      017       O      19    8       80     0 0 07   10M0  40 05%0700 m0"7   18n4  4mmm m        00O    1                  0"  1  7S 71w     MU    8e   "0
........................................   ............................................................................................. .......................................................
ceimS m                                  79     20         M    Mm    ton1         40     04  20   U8            me   21     0W   * ,            07   n1  04              1            M4  2U 7 1 1   1 0    Ma4 S1S000
Dos   s"I0                                708  a1 2i    M                 14    40  1           2a Mo  4        0        M   "a  47              1  1ai      m84 am             O   *4  0m  1a                       du  Ui
...........................................................................................................................................................................
8/rotal                          am0               20   11U4     11    SM            0  2007  8M0       900       44 7g 100172t lS S?   27  84                2U _   O    $74    040   77           a1       08    mu
2 98   DIWC                                mS0   le         18    801    1u01    3W        84   100    70   SM             8   o0   10           M        7  1119M il_ M         O      a    8      a7                   m
...........................................................................................................................................................................
Mg  MoAL                                 IM " s   e2M    s     se S7 llr    19     1041M    6741 MU   § ISOS   2Sl 7%o                            M    WU 74 M                   0     4M   Mnt 1                    4i        21 I



ANNEX 4
Fus ienmos                                                                           Page 23 of 36
C1m..o.sgui . ,hsg   oS I .kmI
leoum  de. coit
1400                              140                             19021                           IW                               194                           TOTM. 0 LW
I,o                     lms         ..                   lv        M.                     lu.  S~e                        Us.   i'a              -s.               Oa.
LDv.    'ro.  TorNt    Lmc.   D  .   Traie  Total   Lm.   Dm.   Tei.  rotai   LM:   Cev.   Toi.  Iot    Lmc.   Div.   Ts.  Tout   Uc.   Osv.  nla.  Toal
...........................................................................................................................................................................
Koveaile miU
1i. IbOl.rdacma                       O       O        O       O        O       O       O       O       O       O        O      O       O        O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O         O
Oseulsl raulas                        O       O        O       O        O       O        O       O       O   4011    00580               O   $18        5441             O       O       O       O       O   1410              1 740
tsriel de bureau                      O       O        O       O        O       O       O        O                              n      m       m        19    89m        0       0       0       0       4 1f 7m T4             U
A ement de bureau                     O    O           O    O           O    O    O    0 191                     O mi      000    MO             O m    a                O    O    O    0                        O   la    un
............................. .............................................................................    .................................................................................................................
0    O    O    O    O    O    O    0 8074  10  412  7    7915 M                                           7  U87 t2S               0    0    0    0 mm  nu7  m0 17
Morse   rmcrreAme
pereansel                                              O O    .0  O     O                                        ° O 081l0  O    01un            4    0o   I187 l                O    0  u77n            1       O    O    01
Poumeltaee   est rsSi.s               O       O        O       O        O       O       O       O   190         O      17    Wb1   1901          O    117   207        M7        0      m9   lm0     408         0      m0     518
AM tles                               0    O           O    O           O    O                   0  un    0    01lm                        l             01nu   0?    0    0   w O    O J                        O    OO
............................. ............................................................................    ................................................................................................................
O    O           O    O           O    O    O  O  U8ti 0 147 U0J    O   117  010180    O   11791m 8m0                                             etO   Mo1                O   m   1
S/Totl                                O          O     O       0        O       O       O        O   000   400         l"0  10    7175  1017    OU7   07                                m     lm6   101    04           mI   1
I-m1li.riscw                         O       0        O            O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O            0       O       O       0           O       O       O   0               O         O
otslel rlt                            O       O        O       O        O        O       O      O        O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O         O
«i"     lde kir.um                    O       0        O       O        O        O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       0       O       O       O       O       O       O         O       I
Aoeece.e S      aum                   O       O        o       o        O       O       o       o       O       e       o       0       O       O       O        O      O        O       O       O       O       O       O        e
sieril volr;                          O       O        O       O        O       O       O       O       O        O       O       O       O       O       O       O       0       0       O       0       O       °       °         °
bietul e      iealie _o               O       O        O       O        O       O       O        O       O       0       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O         O
Osiulloe..Bneoi_                      O    O           O    O           O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    o    o    o    ni    o    O    O    O    O    O    O                                                               O       I
mt_.eel al          . .ll. oO                 O.      ..      ..       .. o  o  o  O    O       O        0      O        O       o       O       O       o       o       o       o   e           o       o       o       o        o
Uqueeamt etuds                        O       O        O       O        O       O       O       O       0       O       O       O       O                               O        O       O       O                            
»1_t n-_                    o    o            o    o           o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o                                                               o
. .. ..............................................       ...    .......................................................................................................................
O       O        O       0        O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O        O       O       O       O       0       O        0
Pou,lt.r.isute                        O       O        O       O        O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O        O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O        O
Aeotiaez eeesri                       O       O        O       O        O       O       O       O       O       O       O        O      O        O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O        O
el_                        ~~~o    o          o    o           o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o    o                                                               o
S/TtalO                             O         O       O        O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O        O       O       O        O
oeJISOI                               O       O        O       O        O       O        O       O       0       0       0       0   7  O  O     O       O0                      O       O      00     0        0          O0
........ ......................................................................................................................... .........................................
UA A0SIS                                      O   O    O   O   O O0O   O O   078740O   1 O0  711   157 5  0                                                                              O   I O U011578018   08  0
...........................................................................................................................................................................
s/TrA lI O    O                                        O    O    O    O    O    0 9il97001    m  i8                                     Tm74 0un    m9 20   M W7                 O1102  O                                M  21S
D00IS0                        O                       O    O   O    O   O   O O   0 U80 74 102as 8l 02m                                                         i0la   7m       9 T            1  au   UN                   m 70718
...........................................................................................................................................................................
CAiT TOT^L~~~~~~~ O                             O       O        O        O       O        O         O4       im     m l un        t un0  21i112 42fIM                       0      n         74            r m    > Illé      i



ANNEX 4
Page 24 of 36
B .1/4                                                                                                        SIU A     NumA#E T2044SK Er FOMIATIeN
Resu   d- co--
Mn:l &-tI on
(f5/000)
190                               1991                           1m2                              1998                            1994                          TOTAL  ŒOU.
on.                     S"u           .                  Sou      Mo.                        e        .                   SSe "                                    MM.  e  o.
La.   0D..    Te..  Totel    La.   Dev.   Txe.  ToeI   La.   DOv.   Taxe  70otl   Lac.    Oev.   Tare  Tot4l    Lac.   Dev.   Taze  Tou*1    Lm.   D".   Taxe  Totel
AS8!STMNC 7        T                          O      m         O J              O   98           O       8       O   99          O   98f         O   989         0   98          0   87 F m77                     0   ;?          0     Me7
FT784                                    um     ueu          208  874  U4SM  47026    800  824               M8     472       3     890  MM    4728    80  MM    MM M1M57                          494ft 18m0  19611   2                 748
.............................   ............................. ..... ...................................................................................................................................
CWS DE W#                                U171   »9           20S  88812  54          87Zlt          92d8       M   8i9        8        1    8il 02  8722 11          90 1  201  1484    804  310                    9     0   26  06
DIO  fVSI8                                lm72   £906         20   8297    80M   4748          81   8244   84M      4768      81   t 244  s8o    476           Si   a4    206    28            80   4        1MU   1          20          4
...........................................................................................................................................................................
SMS TOTAL                                 109   24794        9Z8  40110   877&   Sl9SS    SS7 100274  87752  0190t            S57 100274  8772   t190          6S7 100274  989  87191    JS4  tOU4  U80  24741                         401M0
DII        PD09C                           079    90          I0   1849       me78   40        48   7802   491S   S416         78  11408   6021    073 "        9   150M     w7   0             74  110    MM   2Ma 4                 4797
...........................................................................................................................................................................
0S TOTAL                                 1117725    2a s M   41789   4100                8     0s  107680  42M477ON0             O 7116tS7   448     0018          1         27    44          40   721  17148S »109    2k  40078
_ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _    _    _     _    _    _    _    _     _,_   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- 95 -
ANNEX 4
Page 25 of 36
8-2                                RESTRUCTURATION DE LA CHR
Re"um. des couts
(f rm/G0)
mon.         Sous
Loc.  Dev. Total  Texe TotnIl
CHARCES RECURRETS
Fonctlonn ent de la cellule
de sutvi credTt habitat        1l601       a  16601    6a8 16155
FORMATION                            2128   8198  5821       0   5821
ASSIS-.ANCE TECHNICUE               16729  c8062 42781       0 42781
ETUDE O DEVAWATION                   2128  10642  12770      0  12770
COUTS DE BASE                       86687 89888  76474    SE8  77027
IMPREVUS PHYSIQUES                   1988   1888  8389      66   8426
...................................
SOUS TOTAL                          a8678  41278  79848   609 80452
IMPREVUS FINANCIERS                  46a8  4aoo   88a8    80  8918
COUT TOTAL                          48109 46670  80679   689 89868



ANNEX 4
Page 26 of 36
i .2                                                                                                         TMJcTffl DE LA U
Remme dès cuet
to l 8 I ^ u frw
______________________________                                            ~           (UI  lion/fr__>       __________________                                                 _ _ ________________
1990                            1991                              1992                            1993                             199                            TOTUL C_L
Ibn             ~~sou.    MM.                     Sou.    mo                         uion.          Sou. M  m         OQ    MM.    f9loSue    mon. MLCMU
LMC    De.   Ton*  Toitl   Lc.   Dev.   Toen   Toal   Lac.   0ev.   Tous  Tal    Lac.   0ev.   Tome  Totl   Lc.   Os,.   Teg.  Tota    Lac.   0e.   Tic.  Teotl
................................................   .................................................................................. . . . .. . . . . .. .. . .. . . . .
CHAR  F&WUEN
FonctIonae.mt de la col lule
de silv credite habitat                19W0       o        9   2019   n90o         O     UB   409   30              O     Ull  40d8 m        0 a            1    4         90 IC             le   o1       360         0     su 
FIrTto                                     106   1m            O  26m1    IOU nu96    0  2m1                     0    0    0    00  O    O    O    O    O    O    O    o  am    sa"                                                 o   am
ASBMTZEŒ         94a8Em3348   01O                              O    u S  m         10u21        O  17112   692  Io0              O  17112         0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0  1m   268*             O  o7
EIUIED  AlUTISI                                O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    O    0 021 100                                                                01270   21 10U2    0 1270
........................................................................................................................................   ...........................................................................................  
cm     DSE                                 63 60  6O0         69           168   12017        130  262   ISI    1042           1     2118     M0          O     1m    409   4079  102             60  14790  3U    MSM                   727
DB.8 FI94ISM                                 SOI  160    7   4eo   4    160   14   70 SC                                 O    14  404   80    0    14  404   é0  WU                                7  1479   M   U1                M   am
.......................................................................................................................................................    ............................................................................  
8SE TOTAL                                   68      nu        76  N80    MU           177    112  2441  10     12              12  21         42                UR   4MU    44        11706       78  MM    Me,  417                    Msa
ZNFMM  FD1W# 0S                             »O    270          8    87      MM       798       U        I   1481   1079         20             78                27    7e0    9        21         17   8174    8        40        80   am
........................................................................................................................................................................
cmfl TOT.                                   m6i   72l6        80  1477        0   129         les  tau    12           114"    in    M0       MU          8     179   2        c3    Mu           et  leur  48109  4 «s   _             mm
oD



ANNEX 4
Page 27 of 36
1 .8                      fREOUURISATION ET CONSEATION FONCIERE
Raum ès cout.
<f rew/D
Mon.        Soue
Loc.  Dcv. Tot*I  TYxe ToU 1
MATERIEL INûORMUTIQUE                  0   6104  5104   SU   6411
ASSIS'ANCE TECNIQUE                 6104  4079  9784       6  0784
CARMES RECUIRRENTES                 9571      0  0571      a  0C71
FORMATION                           8607  110d  195ô7      0  196"?
COUTS DE BASE                      2S188 20848 44026    86 44U882
IIMREVUS PNYSIlpJES                 1808  1616  8424    81  8455
SUS TOTAL                          24091 22480  4t4W    887 47787
IMPREVUS FINANCIERS                 2481  1877  8858    1C  8878
........    ................ ..... . 0
COUT TOTAL                         27471 2a88e ClAf8   862 slow0



ANNEX 4
Page 28 of 36
S .3                                                                                                          RLM8AInG  Et C0UATI@  PeC1E
.eaum du coue
1e90                                 991                                1992                                1993                                 1994                              TOtlAL OeUL.
MM.                       Sou*   In.                            o    .                             Sou.   MM.                          Sous   1o.                           So        MMn.
Loc.    Div.   Tige  TXo1l   LaO.   Di.    tame  Total    Loc.   Diw.   T'ae  Toul   Loc                              Div.   T'rn   Tote>    Loc.    Div.   Trge   Toul    Loc.    Div.    t îe   To'ru
.......... ............................................................................................................................................. .................
MATE aL DOIUTzIA                                    0 5104   S06   411                  o         o        o        o        o        o        o        o        o         o        o        o        o        o        o        o         08  04   J06  S411
ASSISSTACE TIIWE                                1021  9es             0  1U?  t8S  2eO7                    o  SS?O   12n   930                 o  1987           4         0        0        0        0        0        0        0  8104  4«79               O  284
oaRa   4RT5r                                    1486         o        o  1438  2871              o         o  2871  2871              o        o  2871  2303               o        o  2308           0        o        o        o  9871            o        0  9871
FATIW                                           2978  3871            o  ee49  25S2  3818                  o  8STO  2e?s   87n                 0  Ea49            0        o        o                 O        OoO o                0o07  11000              0  198
........    ......................................................................... ...........................................................................   ........................................,,"
CoUS CE   AE                                    8434       e     e u 1 SU0    1 2    8480    0128          o   14612        70    4807         o   11I78    2s             O        O    2o           o        O        O        O   2318o  2SlôS                 44M
DFREM s4Y8IR                                     441   80    S1  180    S42   332                          o   874  s8s   387                  o   972   2se              o        o   29e            o                  o          0           1 80le    81  34J
....................................................... ....................................................................                                          ........   .......................................................................................................................
SWm TOTML                                       Ss?s                887 S3?   2 91 "029  848               o 1848   745   51194                0  12U     202              o        o  2ES2           o        o        o        o 24991 22M8    88  47?7
DUEMS FDW4«ES                                    204   419    1    6e9  784   421                          o  1204   971   SS                  o  10    402               o        o   482            o    o            o        o  2484  U1n               la  nam
.....................         .............         .................... ........   , ..... .................... ............... ............. .................................................
cWTf TOTAL                                      8140 112W7   SS27719  9812  087                              lOe         am    mi              O 14o    4                 o         o  10 4           o        o        o        o 27471 gn    1   81s0
Co



- 39 -
9ANNEX 4
Page 29 of 36
8-4                                     PROGRAMMES O'HA8ITAT
Restrne des couU
_______     __________    ____    _____________,___
mon.           Sors
LoC.   D.v. Totul    Taxe  Tot l
INVESTISSEINS-IRAVAUX
QuarUle. *pontanoe         870960  169120  U40577   23878 560754
cocu I ro                   98fiO8  44s9e  148418    6287  149705
Metyexo                     17865   7912   26256   1180   20678
........................................
408808  221948  708876   J1078  789828
SERVICES PROFESSIONNELS
Etudos                      12647       o   12S47    801   1840
Control- treavux            88a88       0   8887    2804  40691
sos3a      0   58s98     8106   54088
PROGRAMME DE RECASEMENT          118179   19e09  18228   8a09s  18ss58
ASSAINISSEIENT INDIVIOUEL        168882   28198  108225    6700  1 T984
........ ......- . .-.--............... ` ...*
COUTS DE BASE                    888960  269250 10782M    44688 112288U
IMPREVUS P"YSiquEs                84484   26014   89498    8788   98281
.......................  . . . .. . . .
SOUS TOTAL                       87a484 294264 1167698   48419 1210118
ZIPREVS FINANCIERS                94129  28902  121082    5418 12e460
COUT TOTAL                       967568  821167 1288780  5S888 1842568



ANNEX 4
Page 30 of 36
8 .4                                                                                                              tRO_0 D't t8nTA
ls.    Sffoa                        Ibn.        1            Som       Mms.                              %Ma.                     Sou 1U               * 9AL rB0UL
lo.   D".    T'fc   Total           Iac    O..   T...  ToD                             T l. .  T o     Lm.          .  TO        Tot l   Lc        Dw.   Toge  Tot    tc.               v.   Tout x    t.l
................................................   ............................ ............................................................................................
006r41.. opo4t»»                 O                              115   Som           7      109  1214000  0701    0n7 mm    Ms                      9 s    552 am        5504o      20          2   "4M  87010   012           M,070   0on
0<ullt@                     4025    Mi45        MM"  74500    4925   2245          3144  7455                                                      O        0 Il             O        O        O            1111     44M0     am0   149
87m2   20411        '>   NOMM' 10001   77149  100I 257105IO 14500    70 1   71 00550    5084   2W59   850    MM58    MM04    5380    SM    0450  41000     22.800   81070   l'0MM
NERVICU M IC*SIUe.
Etud                        12547         0       01  l54             O       O 0      O        O       0                 00 011
Controlo traveum                5         0      2m0   4069    %5l             O  S91   207  13o                 O      M    14242    5M7           0o   Mo    800104    50           O     2o0    400    007            0   2MO4    4t
................................................................................................... ................. ........... ............................................
tom          0     1051  17417    116             o       1   12207 1M4W                    M0   14242   S7M           0             004    am0        2O        m     400    6                  30 Im    "06
7R00                  T DE         aaOA   04 M1482   2774 1O1990  2MM0  477    M                     97         o       O        O       O        O        O        O       O        O       O        O        o 11111171 19100  #ee 110
ASSApseelT D5VIM."  M5    7040   100M 404   SU1   9M   25   074  810   5M   1M  M07 3806   1M                                                                       2    7 MM                0           0 0   0Mm  20  070 112«a4
................................. ............................................................................................................................ .............
CaUTS ce am0                       190700 47791   010 250   26     91794 1470 870su 1                               720  1109 2m74  9007  1000  59 u224 5941 29  s72 MM   090 mm00 440  1M
188  PtYSXa s.                       9744       o        M      10      24         72       817T  32471   17999    782       12   041         07 6 M    101      490  M11        5M4   287           M     MM   040            14    8M       9l21
....................................................................................... .................................................................................................................... ........... ....................................
SAS TOTAL                         244    US117         9752 209517  2            1498  1U099 40            2U1420  a1         12712 804750 101732   4100    5740 14U10   004   27  0    41 97 70  078                       1 0      419 12 l1
D84Mj  FDW IB2                       97        900      4a8   11790    2M          54      1U97            2750    M844   1SO         70   170t   40            107  2748   1n72   5148              M    MM    9412    0  'Roi           120 UM
...................................................... T...................................................................................................................
Coff  TIIIAL                      217827    18117       lOU69 2%111S3u $108          IY     17497 4ae2u42M           40       24     laaO  ae           11110U      ee 747 UIM    79517  IMI &M 1171  117»   M2167  am     g



C .1         - 101 -               ASSISTANCE AU SECTEUR DE L'ARTISANAT     AE       of 36
Rnum  db  coutn
(f s.e/0l)
mon.         Sous
Loc.  Dov.  Totnl   Tax ' Totea
INVESTISSEMENTS
A.nag.ont d« aires ar*lenalae           9776  22737  82612   2126  84887
CREATION ET GESTION DE STOCKS
Approvlslonnsant  atleres pr.mier       6512  42s0   9S62    319  9881
ENqUETES                                    6100   212   6812   ao6  5618
ANIMATION ET FORMATION                     18062  6812  28876    819  28898
COORDINATION NATIONALE ET CESTION
DU PROJET                               11687   6812  17000   701  17701
...................................
COUTS DE BASE                              49937  87826 87761   8770  91681
IMPREVUS PHYSIQUES                          6482   4919  10402    488  10885
SOUS TOTAL                                 66419 42744  98168  4258 102416
IMPREVUS FINANCIERS                        6781   4403  11188    640  11728
COUT TOTAL                                 62200 47148 109848  4798 114140



ANNEX 4
Page 32 of 36
C                                                                                                 s AASuITAC   AU SErrET   DE L'AUZM T
Reaue  des coul
190                          1991                          1992                           1993                          1994                        TOTAL ŒoeAL
mNm                  Sous,   Mon.                  soue    mon.                   8us    Mm.                      s      Mcn.                  Sous    mm.
Loc.   Dow.   Taxe  Total   Loc.  Oev.  Tous  Total   Loc.   DaY.  Taxe  Total   Loc.   DIY.  Taxe  Total   Lac.   DY.  Toxa  Total   Loec.  Oev.  Taxe  Total
IMVIITSSEIEITS
Asnageact des aira  arti anra Ies           1466   3411    319   5196   1988   4547    428   6927   2444   56            831   68    2982   61    ea7  1091    977   2274    212   3404   e770  22737   n25  a34s7
CREATION ETr ŒTION DE STOMG
Approvisionnama    t netires premier»        797    637      40   1402   1062    eso        64   1976   I128   1o02       s0   2470   1894   127S       96   2964    501    425        32   9se    sa2   4250    819   qui1
ElJESU                                        o100       42      61   1124   1275      53      76   1405   1278      s3      76   1405   l275       53      76   1405    255      il      15    281   U100    212    S06   5610
ANIHTION ET F0ITJSN                            3612   1062       64   4739   4516   1328       60   sM2a   4516    120        0   8S23   4816   126          0 e  921    90s    2seU  16   1le   1602   5312    819  2369
COORD1ITION NATIONALE ET STIZON
DU FROJET                                   237   1002    140   3840   2902   1328    175   4428   202M  1128    178   4425   2922   1128    178   442S    564    25                  3S5     8S3  11067   S312    701  17701
........................................................................................................................................................................
COWS DE sASE                                   9233   6216    632  I6o0     11730   8107    020  20es7  12404   94          942  2203  11239  IO10    1068  28109   3251   8241    311   8o2  49s7  37825   sno  91831
IfIUE5W  PWYSIW.                                997    792      79   MM    1271   1038    100   2412   1l71   120    121   MI   1470   1422    13s 30OS    374    438                     42   8sU    SMe2 4919    403  IO18
................................................................................................... ,............. ........................................................
sous TOTAL                                    10230   700S    711  17948  1S01   9145    924  23069  13888  10686   1063  28604  14709   2227  1U03  28189   12    SS7S    352   7656  55419  42744   42S8 102416
DIMS     FDWCIERS                               460    271      82    764   1128  ss6          80   1804   leu    110       SU3049   2581   1781    211   4545             07    678      78   MM       MI   4403    540  11I25
......................................................................................................................................................................
COW  TOTAL                                     10090   7279    743  10712  1412    9741   1004  24073  18600  11792   l202  2esu  17290  1378   1414  8282   4432   4357    431    MO19  62200  47146   479  114140
-   -----         _      __ - -------_   ----- - ------ - - - - - --- - - - ----- -    ----- -    ----- -   -------- - ----- - ------ - - -- - -- - -



- 103 -
ANNEX 4
Page 33 of 36
C-2                         ASSISTANCE AU SECTEUR DE LA CONSTRUCTION
Resu. des coute
(Frw\000)
Mon.         Sous
Loc.   Dev.  Total   Taxe  Tota 
ATTRIBUTION DE CREDIT
Terre culte                       26464      0  264S4      0  26454
Bo0s                              l0444      0  16444      O  16444
...................................
42898      0  42898      O  42898
INVESTISSEMENTS
Vehicules                             0   7217   7217    484   7660
Amenagement de bureau               868   8718   4081    244   4326
Materiel et mobiller de bureau    8461       0   8461    208   8670
...................................
8829  10980  14769    887  15646
CHARCES RECURRENTES
FonctIonnement                    66790      O  90790   1198  91988
ASSISTANCE TECHNItUE                  5622  21149  26771      0  26771
................. ........................................................... 
COUTS DE BASE                       148189  82079 176218   2086 177802
IMPREVUS PHYSIQUES                    9462   1098  10666    208  10768
...................................
SOUS TOTAL                          162601  88268 l 5778   2293 188066
IMPREVUS FINANCIERS                  18624   1676  20299    217  20517
...................................
COUT TOTAL                          171224  84984 206072   2610 208682
___  _______________ _______________ _______     --______ _______________



ANNEX 4
Page 34 of 36
C .2                                                                                                   ASISTMANCE AU STaIR DE LA CONSTRCTION
Rame des cout.
CFr, 'OtOO
1990                              1991                              1992                               1993                              1994                                     TOTAL  COL
mmn.                    Soue      Mnm.                     Soue     Non.                     S ."    Non.                       Sou      MNM.                     Sou       Nom.
Lac.   Dev.   Tout  Total   Ltc.   tev.   Tiam     Total   Loc.   Dev.   Taxe  Total   LC.   Dev.   T:.  1rot1t   Loc.   Dev.   Trse  Total   Lac.   O**.  T'rm   Tcqeal
................................................................................. .......................................................................................
ATMIffiITOe DE CRIT
TRbTeIectt* ED                                     0 O                   o 010382    O    o1088215672                        o    O 107               0    o    o    o    o    o    o    o02uS4    o    o026a48
Bol.                                         O    o    O    0578S 0    0                              57 tom               o    o MM00  0    0o lo0                           o 0      O    O   0    0    010444                           026444
............................................ ,............................................................................................................................
O       0        0        0 103            0       0 103 26801               O        0 2tlUt          0        0       O        0       O        O        0       0 42690           o        0 49-
vahicul.                                     0   7217       4s4    70           0       o        0       o        O        o            O   0        0   O       O            0   O        O        O        O            0    7217      4s4    7M0
ARNHa ts  de buremu                        3SS   3713       244   42            O       O        O       0        0        O       O        O       0   O         O       O   O            O        O        O   o     JÔ    371         2t4    4a2
notarial et  oob;r d  bur w               3S4t1       0     200   am70          O                                 0 o  O          O                                 0 O  O  O        O   o461                                   o     200    MM70
.......................................................................................................................................................................-
Sst910930o  bS7184                       o    o    O           O        O        O       O        o        O       O        O        O       O        o        o       03829 1090   ett718
OW10B Remee
F%actionnemmet                          11849         o     1O  11498  2207             0     29  22ge7  2927              o     299  2997  297              o     299  20907    149            o     no0  11490  to7m0           o    1190  9190
ASSISr*NE 7Tlc«I                             1687   6s4M         0o       01   ses3    U0            O  10740         o       o        O        O       O        O        O       O        O        O       O        0    SM2    21149         o  20771
....................... .................................................................................................................. ..............................
COats CE &E                                 160       17274   1OSt  3817    42970  1400s    299  58074  492sa                 o      2es  4980  2M97             o     299  22cs7  11s49            o     10   11490 14s818    s207e   266 17oi
U0MUS  PHVSIU                               1t18    WU          104   2714   2270           o      30   2S00    2270          o       30   2000   2970           o      30   2e00    11                    t 18  lt60 I462      1098        2      1077t
........................................................................................................................................................................
SS  TOTAL                                   1030M      1380?    1140   s8      4s2se  14t aos            MM7  81520           O      829 5o2 es7  24ss7                329  320?   1240             o     168  1264         01   88172   29  0      2 1 M
-fS  FDNWNCI                                  027      711       s1    1590   ss2t    9e           29   4919   0712           o       4s   0rt6    4301          o      56   44S9   2777           o       s7    2014  tst24    te70        217  20617
CoUT TOTAL                                   19210  19079    1191  19400  49168 1 5769            3S# OM298  SO24         0   o      872   10612  294            O     3     2978  o0               O     201  142 17124  8404             2610  0



ANNEX 4
- 105 -                           Page 35 of 36
D                           GESTION DU PROJET ET ETUDES
Resume deb couta
-  -  --  ---  -----------(f ru/SoS) - - - - -- - - - -
Mon.         Sous
Loc.   Dsv.  Total   Taxe  Total
...................................
INVESTISSEMENTS
Materll roulent              0   2128   2128    128   2266
Matoriel informatique         O   104   1064      64   1128
Materiel de bureau            O    558    su      sa    586
O   8746   8746    225   8971
CHARGES RECURRENTES
Installation                218      0    218     18    226
Personnel National        28622      0  28622      0  28622
Personnel Expatrie         9848  88829 47677    566  48243
Fonctionnement            11174      0  11174    670  11846
...................................
49367  88329  87686   1249  88936
AUDITS DES COMPTES            2208   8812  11016    138  11148
ETUDES ET ENQUETES            f386  14899 21284    888  21667
COUTS DE BASE                C794S 66785 128781   1990 126721
IMPREVUS PHYSIQUES            4860   2746   7606    142   7748
SOS TOTAL                    62805  68631 131888   2132 138469
IMPREVUS FINANCIERS           7687   6797  14484    254  14888
COUT TOTAL                   70442  75828 145770   2886 148150



ANNEX 4
Page 36 of 36
D                                                          ~OaTII  Ou P0ET ErT 1E1U1S
Reouas dom cou"
1990                                1991                                1992                                1998                                1994                              TOTAL.  M UL.
Lac.   Osv.   Teno  Total    L .   Dev.    TOme  Total    LacI iev.   Tout  Total    Lc.   Dow.   Taxe  Total    Lac.   Oev.   Taxe  Total    Loc.   Dev.   Taga  Totnl
........................................................................................................................................................................
otAriei roulant                       O  104    64  112S                   0 104    64 117                     O        O        O        O        O        O        O        0        O        O        t        O        0  210    la  2U6
Motar1.elinformatique                  O                                   0        1064    64 12 lia                                                                O        O        O        O        O        0        01 6              4     1~
htari.l de bureau                      O     221       tS      2s5         0    1lu         10     176         O       6        10     1768                 0        O        $        8        O        O        °        O       t56      S4 a
...........................................               ........        ......................................................, ........................................................................................................................*
O    tase       77    lm16          O    2294       lS     2412         0      166       10      17         o        O        O        O        O        O        O 0                     3 0 r748  US    3971
Inst lltlon                        213        O       IS      228                           O       O        O         O       O        O        O         O        O        O        O 0  O   O        0               21S        O       13      225
Parconnl Mtional                   8724        0        0 6724 71n                      O  0rs   ns71                       O         n07155  l15           0        0  71    1481              O        O  143812                  0         0  WM622
Pereonnel E.pstrle                 1402    5749        e5    7286   2MU4   11499          170   14473    204   11499          170   14473    2387    9052         142   I2061          O        O        O        0    9YS   639           5#   48f43
Fonctionne.nt                      1676         o     101    1777    4470           0     26e    4738    167            O     101    1777    I76            O     101    1777    1676           0      101    1777  11174            0     670   1i4S
.................................................................................................. ......................................................................
9016    5749       199   14963   14410   11499         430  26360   1SB3  11499            270  23405  11189    96S2           242  20993    3107            0      101    16      49U57  309   1249  01
>17m De0W6                                O        O        O         O     3o0    1m2         20    1672       661   2644         40    3344       661    2644         40   3s44       551    220          SS    2797    22il       nia2    1SS   11140
Er:      ET  BE r                         O        O        O         O    1277 2lm     0      77    4138    3195    7449         192   1064    1916    4470         11     63s          O        O        O        O    SSS5   1499    3S8   217
........................................................................................................................................................................
COUTS DE SASE                          9016    7036       275   1326   167   1095             672  34804   13490  21738           612  87759  t8748   16696           se7   30987   3S5S    220S           184    5995  5795   6575           190  125721
DS   WS  PHSSiU                         761      129       19      909   l23        6B0       s0    20s8    1269    1026          34    2329    1141        711       26    1l7-       866      220        1t      699    4SD    2746         142    7746
...................................................... ...........................................................................................,,,,,,......................................................................... 
SMU  TOTAL                             97m      7168      294  17235   1736O  1784           722  8S607   16730  22704            6 e  401t9  145i6   17407          422  827t5   4«           2423       147    6594  S2905 MU              2t1218t4S9
DF'EA         PD4CwI.S                  440      27        13      730    1t07    lS           6      2791   l2aS     2369         n      4812    2612    2490          74    5179      ee5      447        3S     1s75    7687    6797        234   14860
...........................................................................................................................................T...........................
CTf  TOTAL                            1027          7441  SOS  1795           tStS     19M 79  780  s9es         i         25142  6lt  44700  t7499  t9O              497  37  4           4919     MM     lSO         7«   70 442   76       2G  t4 t68



_ 107 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 12
RWANDA
Urban Institutions Sectoral Develorment Prolect
Execution and Management of Sectoral Progr-ms
1.         This annex pr,sents details of the implementation of programs in
each of the main areas of emphasis: Res;.urce Mobilization, Urban
Management, and Assistance to Artisans and the Construction Industry. It
supplements the summary ciscussion of implementation arrangements contained
ln Chapter III of the text.
A. Resource Mobilization
Communal Revenue Generation and Financial Management
2.         The principal objective of actions in this area is to mobilise
sufficient resources from urban residents of the communes to meet the coste
of the communes' larger responsibilities for provision of urban services.
This vill be done principally through a new Property Tax. The existing
property tax appli<is to rormally registered buildings only ("limppt personnel
1er et 2ame base"), and is nov administered by the Ministry of Finance.
Administration of this tax would bo, transferred to the communes. The
proposed legislation vould also slightly modify the existing law s0 as to
avoid double taxation wh*n the new communal Property Tax takes effect.
3.         Although the :roperty Tax is likely to be introduced only in
Kigali and the 3 seconda:y centers during the implementation period,
measures to lmprove financial management in the communes vould be introduced
in the four smaller tovas (Cyangugu, Rwamagana, Ruhango, and Mukamira) as
vell as the larger urban centers. These measures include double entry
accouating in the larger towns and basic programming of receipts and
expernditures in the others. Only 1-2 bookkeepers, and accountants vould be
required in the 4 small towns for these actions, and 3-4 in each of the
larger centers.
Inter-Communal Development Credit agency (CID)
4.         The newly creuted CID is designed to address the problems
encountered by its predecessor, the Fonds de Développement Communal (FDC).
FDC vas established in 1577 to provide grant and loan funds to communes for
investments categorized as both "non-productive" (mostly administrative
buildings) and productive.. External assistance, from France, EDF, USAID,
and especially Swiss Cooleration, has amounted to more than $4 million.
Other resources are obtained from (i) contributions from communes, equal to
10 of their annual reverues; (ii) central government transfers and (iii)
interest and repayments on loans and investments. In practice, FDC
activities raised severa. issues. Rather than productive projects, FDC had
primarily been called upun to finance administrative facilities, mainly
through grants rather thon loans. Rather than enjoying financial and



- 108 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 12
administrative autonomy as indicated in the original legislation, FDC
operated as a division of the Ministry of Interior and vas therefore
subject to political pressure in its funding decisions.
5.         The Law creating CID to replace FDC vas approved in February
1989. It establishes CID as an autonomous entity, very similar to a public
corporation (établissement public) but with less of a risk that large
overheads, a common feature of many public corporations, vould be incurred.
This entity vould be called Crédit Intercommunal de Développement (CID). A
rather distant supervision (tutelle) vould be exercised by the Ministry of
Finance. CID vould furthermore make only loans; grants vould be made
directly by the Ministry of Interior from a budget line item.  The fact that
most administrative and social infrastructure is nov in place in the
communes strengthened the confidence of the authorities that nov vas the
time to redirect the CID away from grants and toward loans for investments
in education, health, vater supply, and other productive purposes at the
commune level. Administratively, the Law also provides for a much
strengthened role of the Bourgmestres in setting strategic directions for
the CID.
6.         The project vould provide the necessary administrative and
management support for CID activities including, but not necessarily limited
to, the urban communes. Under the Water Supply II project (Cr. 1783), a
separate account or "winclow" ("Fonds national de l'hydraulique rurale")
vould channel funds, incuding a portion of the IDA credit, through CID to
the communes for vater supply investments. A similar account (<Fonds
d'Aminagement Urbain") vould be established to keep track of inflcw and
outflow of funds to the communes for the SDUs and the Bousing Programs.
Under the present project the Directorate of CID vould be strengthened to
manage 14oth the rural vater supply and the urban accounts, and vould have
additional capacity to review proposals in other sectors. The specific
level of support vould b.3 determined during the early stages of
implementation, at which time an operations plan for CID would be discussed.
Provisionally, however, lt appears that the Directorate should have a staff
of at least 8 people (3 higher-level staff, 1 assistant, 2 secretaries, 1
driver, and 1 messenger).
Bousin& Finance
7.         The savings for housing program (PAP) was launched on July 1,
1988. The supervising ministry (Finance) has approved the program in the
form proposed by the Banques Populaires. Subsequently, an information
campaign vas begun and sevings passbooks (Livrets d'Epargne) established.
8.         The program has been designed in accordance with the guidelines
of the Central Bank (BNR), which has also approved its terms and conditions.
Savings accounts vould earn interest at 3.75%, while the interest rate on
housing credits granted later on vould be 9%. The 5.25% spread vould be
just sufficient to cover the administrative costs of the program, and is
reasonable in view of the many small savers participating and the overhead



- 109 -
AMEX 5
Page 3 of 12
expenses the Banques Populaires normally incur in similar programs.
Administrative discipline will be required by the Banques Populaires to keep
their overhead costs vithin this spread. Recurrent costs of FXW 3.3 million
(US$43*000) in the firet year of the program, until repayments begin, would
be borne by the Banques Populaires. The maximum loan amount is FRW 2.5
million (US$32,500), but most loans are expected to be In the range of FRW
300,000 to 700,000 (US$3,900 - 9,100), affordable to familles between the
third and seventh deciles of the income distribution.  The Banques
Populaires would concentrate for the first two years on Kigali, then
introduce the program in Butare, Ruhengeri, and Gisenyi beginning the third
year.
9.         Flexibility is featured both in the initial savings period and
ln the maturities of the housing credits.  The down payment of 202 of the
house price would be accumulated over 1 year for houses of non-permanent
materials (adobe), 18 months for semi-pormanent construction, and 2 years
for houses of permanent materials. Similatly, credits would be given for 5
yeares in the case of adobe construction, 10 years for semi-permanent, snd 15
for permanent. PAP credits would begin to be made in July 1989, after the
minimum savings period of 12 monthes.
10.        Expansion of the housing finance program to other savinga
institutions and commercial banks should occur as the PAP program moves
forvard. First, the Banques Populaires intend gradually to introduce the
program to as yet unserved groupss cooperatives for low-cost housing,
building materials cooperatives, and small real estate entrepreneurs. If
the early results of the PAP progrsm are favorable, other segments of the
banking sector should wish to participate. The Caisse d'Epargne du Rwanda,
a major savings institution whose future role and structure is currently
being reviewed, and the Banque Commerciale du Rwanda, one of the three
largest commercial banks, have both expressed interest in the program. An
important ingredient in the decision of others to join the program should be
the study of the macroeconomic and financial implications of the progrem
that -ould be carried out during the third year of the project.  On the
basis of its analysis of the degree of succese the PAP program vill have
enjoyed, this study would describe the conditions under which other loanable
funds could or should be devoted to housing.
B. Urban Manatement
SDUs
11.        In the transfer of responsibility for urban services from
NINITRAPE to the communes, emphasis ls placed on taking maximum advantage of
what the communes are already doing, and on gradual expansion of their
authority in relation to their financial and technical capacity. Many
communes have already ass3umed de facto responsibility for street maintenance
and garbage collection, celying especially on umutanda (community labor).
Communes have for some time also been keeping land registries by issuing



- 110 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 12
actes de notoriite', which summarize key features of the tpe of possession
of the plot and any physical assets on it. In Butare a low-co8t houfs!ng
project sponsored by the commune has gone forward on non-registered lnsd.
In many respects, therefore, the currently proposed actions involve giving
official recognition to economie activity in which the communes already have
some experience.
12.        The same principle holds for privately constructed housJ.ng, in
which an economically valuable act (building a house) is alseo made legal
through the introduction of modified instruments of urban planning, land
occupation, and building permission. The reforas in urban planning began
with the search for an alternative to the only currently legal way to
urbanizes  by staking and delimitation of plots (lotissement) on land that
has previously been registered and that has been approved for housing by a
master plan.  Although the actual process of lotissement is not costly, the
conditions of its legality ensure that only a very little of it can be done
at one time.  Land being held in customary rigbts is far more abundant than
registered land, and the transformation of customary land into registered
land iL difficult and time-consuming. Master plans are quite expensive and
become out of date quickly, but (according to prevailing laws) ne building
permit can be issued vithout one.
13. The legislation package whose approval would be a condition of IDA
effectiveness utilizes the potential for communal management of urban space
that iL  provided by the basic 1963 commune law and by a 1975 statute on
organization of prefectures 1/. Decentralization would apply to the larger
urban communes, in which new unita (the SDUs) vould be established. For the
amaller centers deconcentration rather than decentralization would prevail
for the time beings central ministry agents assigned to prefectures (the
Urbau Planning Inspectors) would manage SDUs on behalf of the Bourgmestres.
The SDUs would be responsible for preparation of simplified urban plans
(croquis d'amanagement) for their toens. These plans would indicate
districts suitable for housing or businesses, and describe in broad terms
the land use pattern expected to prevail.  No detailed planning either of
housing or of infrastructure would be required, since the asm is essentially
to ensure that a house built now vill not be in the way of infrastructure
installed later.
14.        The simplified urban plans vould apply both to existing and to
new development.  They would be prepared whenever a master plan or site
development plan (plan particulier d'aménagement) has not been approved. For
existing neighborhoods, approval of the plan, which would essentially
confirm existing land uses, vould be the major step in legalizing the
neighborhood and providing the commune with meaningful authority over its
development.  More imporcant is the control over future development afforded
by the stipulation that the approval of th's type of plan would precede any
new urbanization in the town.  Since the communes will bear the costs of
1/   Law of 23 November 1963, esp. Article 90, and Decree-Law No. 10175 of
March 11, 1975, esp. Article 3.



- 111 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 12
future infrastructure through local taxation, it will be in their interest
to ensure that the most economical and appropriate site development plan is
put in place beforehand.
15.        ln Kigali, the SDU would be composed of an Urban Planning
Division and Technical Services Division.  The Urban Planning Division,
which would include staff responsible for the land registry, would begin
functioning during the firat year of the project.  Technical services would
begin during the second year (refuse collection) or third year latreet
maintenance).  National roads vithin Kigali would be maintained directly by
the MINITRAPE. For secondary streets construction would continue to be
undertaken by the Public Works Ministry, but maintenance would be assumed by
the SDU. Only one suction truck would be acquired by the SDU Kigali for
emptying of septic tanks, since private enterpreneurs are expected to
perform much of this work. Private initiative is similarly anticipated in
the case of refuse collection in middle and higher-income neighborhoods. A
limited number of duwap trucks and refuse containers would be acquired by the
SDU for use in the high-density districts and for markets.
16.        In the secondary centers of Butare, Ruhengeri, and Gisenyi, the
responsibilities of the urban planning portion of the SDU would include
functions performed by its counterpart in Kigali, namely urban plans, site
development plans, and the land registry, plus the Property Tax and communal
financial management. Since the base of the Prope;ty Tax consista of a few
broad categories of property size and type rather than property value,
annual assessments of value are not required. Instead, through regular
updating the Land Registry (livre foncier) should contain sufficient
information for issuance of tax bills. Responsibilities for technical
services include short-term studies of road and street improvements, and
refuse collection beginning the third year in Butare and the fourth year in
Ruhengeri and Gisenyi. Because strengthening of the financial capacity of
these communes will take time, the purchase of equipment and construction of
garages and hangars for street maintenance is not now included in the
program. A full cosc breakdown of these actions has been prepared, however,
and they could be introduced in the event the financial capacity of the
secondary centers improves more rapidly than foreseen. The urban planning
division of the Butare SDU would prepare the site development for the
Matyazo serviced plots.
CHR
17.        Responsibility for the housing programs on behalf of the
Prefecture of the City of Kigali and the Commune of Ngoma (Butare) would
amount to a significant share of the land development/servicing activity of
CHR over the project period. To manage these programs, a Monitoring Unit
would be created within the Directorate of Land and Housing Development (see
Annex 12). The Unit would consist of 1 municipal engineer, 1 sanitary
engineer, 6 technicians, 1 accountant, 1 draftsman, 1 secretary, 1
administrative assistant, 1 driver, and 1 messenger. Of this staff, the 2



- 112 -
AN~NEX 5
Page 6 of 12
engineers and 4 of the 6 technicians would be recruited; the other staff are
available at CER at present. Recruitment of the required staff La a
condition of disbursement of the housing programs.
18.        Detailed designa for the first phase of the upgrading operations
have been prepared. Consequently, this phase would get underway during the
firet half of 1990. During the same six-month period the preparation of
detailed designa for the Gaculiro (Kigali) and Matyazo (Butare) serviced
plots would begin.
19.        An important additional function of the Monitoring Unit would be
to carry out technical evaluations for the Banques Populaires 'of requests
for housing credits. A contract would be concluded between the Banques
Populaires and CHR for this purpose. Tasks would include evaluation of
housing improvements, prepaation of standard plans and cost estimates for
new construction, and some supervision cf construction (in conjunction with
the Banques Populaires and probably also KORA). The additional staff
required for this activity includes 1 architect/housing expert, 2
technicians, 1 secretary, 1 driver, and 1 messenger.
20.        Sale of the plots demarcated by the Public Works Miuistry is
expected to result in annual revenues to CHR of at least FRW 15 million tsQe
also Annex 10). About 800 plots are subdivided by the Ministry each year.
According to present proposals, CHR would manage the sale of at least 80% of
these plots during the firet two years of the project. The sale price is
expected to be a minimum of FRW 200 (US$2.60) per square meter. The
proportion of plots in subsequent years assigned to CHR would be reviewed
annually. Sale prices of plots would no longer be fixed by Government, but
would be determined by CHR and other marketing agents.
21.        Other activities on the financial side of the CHR portfolio
include (a) construction loans that would be con-'erted into permanent
mortgages by the Banq-aes Popul ires; (b) establishment of a Guarantee Fund
for hlusing progrema, especially loans for on-site sanitation; and (c)
mortgage insurance. Procedures for granting construction loans would
essentially remain the same as at present, the main difference being that in
previous yeurs, for lack of partitere in the banking community, CHR vas
forced to hold such loan in its own portf.*lio as mortgages. In the
proposed program, CHR would confirm with the Banques Populaires that the
construction loan could be converted on acceptable ternis (particularly that
the "low cost housingl cost limit of FRW 2.5 million on the dwelling is
respected) and the intention of the Banques Populaires aa to purchase of the
loan. With these assurances, CHR would proceed to make the loans. The
Guarantee Fund would be established with resources from UNCDF, a cofinancier
of the programs, and would be equal to one-third of the on-site sanitation
loans expected to be made.
22.        Mortgage insurance would be an experiment into whlch CHR would
venture vithin the firat two years of the program.  CHR would establish an
ad-hoc committee composed of all financial institutions that may wish to
participate in a mortgage iLsurance system.  This comlittse vould determine



- 113 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 12
the general operating conditions, setting of premiums, methode of evaluation
of loans subject to insurance, and means of limiting delinquencies. The
two-year startup period would al8o sllow for the necessary training e',road
of CHR staff.
Land Manaeiement snd Rezistry
23.        Some urban specialists hold the view that in order to legitimize
the tenure statua of urban residents, eustomary land rights must first be
removed through expropriation 80 that new forms of teaure can be introduced.
Neasures in the program run counter to this view, and essentially argue that
public and private interests are best served by confirming people's land
rights instead of abolishing them.  Thus, occupancy certificates (titres
d'occupation) would be delivered to urban residents not living in approved
land subdivisions. The certificates would not grant title but would confirm
the usufruct or occupancy of the plot. This would not preclude future
changes in tenure. Recipients could in the future, under procedures that
would be defined at a later stage, upgrade their tenure status to full
title. The near term objective, however, is to establish the legality of
purchases and sales of the right to occupy an urban plot with customary
rights. Indeed, the Law of November 23, 1963 requires communes to organize
land registry bureaux and communal cadastres. The extent to whiceh communes
have actually done so varies widely.  The project would modify the
institutional framework, for communes or portion of communes having a
Circonscription Urbaine (the 'city limits' des'gnation in Rwanda) in their
territory, s0 that communes would be fully empowered to deliver the
occupancy certificates.  The Ministry of Public Works would continue to
issue formal land titles in the tradit;ional manner, for the very small
portion of cities and towns with approved subdivisions.
24.        The communes concerned would be asked neither to effect
cadastral surveys nor to maintain a physical cadastre. Those
responsibilities would remain at the national level. Communes would instead
maintain a folder ("livre foncier") on each property. Physical features of
the property would be recorded on the basis of a "levé manuel des terrains",
not a precise metes and bounds description but a kind of non-specialized
measuring of the property by a technician working for the commune, with the
active participation of the main local official (conseiller de secteur).
25.        The land folder would be opened when a family requests the
commune to grant a building permit. Upon receipt of the request, the
commune would proceed witla the leva manuel des terrains. By an inter-
ministerial circular, a model of the levi manuel has been proposed in order
to ensure similar quality standards among communes. This la in principle a
transitory process. Preservation of customary rights, aven those that are
recorded, should according to law eventually be transformed into full
property rights 2/. For this reason, in cases where the formal cadastre
21   Decree of 11 July 1960, Art. 10, and Art. 42 of proposed legislation
on building authorizations.



- 114 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 12
process described in the Civil Code ia started, the commune's juriadiction
vould yield to that of the Ministry of Public Works. Nevertheless, there is
no timetable for transformation of customary rights into formal rights and
no pressu-re would be put on families to do so. E^pecially as the Banques
Populaires vill accept occupancy certificates as collateral for housing
credits, the establishment of secure tenure based on customary rights should
be an incentive to invest in house construction and improvement, as it has
proved to be in other parts of the world. Upon the granting of a housing
credit, the occupancy certificate vould be transferred to the local branch
of the Banques Populaires. In the event of a default, the bank vould retain
the certificate and could therefore sell the property to recover its
investment.
26.        It may be important to note that the measures to be carried out
would be confined to urbanized communes or portions of communes. In cases
where the Circonscriptions Urbaines contain land which is not nov urbanized,
the measures vould api>ly only in the urbanized administrative units
(secteurs). Thus, the improvements are not necessarily intended for vider
application, for example in rural areas. An IDA-sponsored research project
on Land Tenure, Rural Credit, and Agric'lltural Production, vith case studies
of several countries including Rwanda, vould try to determine how land
tenure affects factor markets and hence farm productivity in rural areas.
The results of this study, plus other rural and urban experience, would be
reviewed before conclusions are drawn about improvements in land tenure in
rural areas.
27.        The proposed nev legîilation on expropriation la designed to
make the law more workable, even though the basic objective of the whole set
of land and urban planning measures ia to keep the use of expropriation to a
minimum. Much Rwandese legislation is designed to protect the rights of
holders of amall pieces of property. Legislative acte of 1960, 1976, 1978,
and 1979 reaffirm this principle in various ways. Problems arise, however,
when these principles are applied to urban areas. Urban planners may
consider resettling pecole in order to make the pattern of neighborhood
growth consistent vith plans for provision of infrastructure. The
compensation that muet be paid to the resettled families quickly makes this
approach prohibitively expensive. The proposed legislation makes a
distinction as to the reasons for expropriation. If done to allow essential
services to be introduced (a amall street for fire trucks, for example),
expropriation may be a viable choice. If it is done mainly to relocate
people, it should be the exception and not (as is true at present) thc rule.
Site development plans, land registries, occupancy certificates, and the
other elements of the package come first. If expropriation is resorted to,
management of the process vould in many cases be vested in a professional
developer, rather than remaining the task of the expropriating ministry.
The developer, having an interest in moving the procesa along, would likely
complete the process more rapidly than the ministry.
28.        These measures vould be introduced in Kigali and Butare the
firet year, Ruhengeri and Gisenyi the second year, and in the four smaller
centers beginning in the third year. Preparation of guides and



- 115 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 12
manuals, publicity campalgns, and training would be undertaken especlally
during the first two years to familiarise the coumunes with the new system.
The training would include Bourgmestres, conseillers de secteur, sad other
communal officials. Recurrent coste of maintaining the land record book
vould be recovered through the Property Tax.
Housing ProRrams
29.        !pJrading in Kiall.  The five upgrading neighborhoods of
Cyah.feS, Gitega, Muhina, Nyakabanda, and Kimisagara cover 275 ha and are
situa- .. on the slopes of the Nyarugenge plateau near the city center.
Thei  ?opulation is about 35,000.  The areas closest to main roads and
centers of economie activity are densely populated (about 300
personslhectare), and lack most basic on-site infrastructure.  However,
about 25Z of the total land area is still used for cultivation. The
upgrading program would utilize sa«e of this land to create about 1,300 new
plots, and would improve infrastructure and services in the neighborhoods as
described below (see Maps 20888 and 20951).
30.        Vehicle access to the neighborhoods would be improved as a
result of the introduction of two new paved primary roads, improvement of
existing secondary streets, and strengthening of the tertiary street network
and pedestrian paths, especial'y in the most steeply sloped and densely
settled sections. Streets end paths would be no vider than the minimum
required, in viev of the high densities. In additlon to drainage canals
along these improved streets, drainage works would be constructed in these
same sections, and vould be concrete-lined to facllitate maintenance.
Outfalls and a culvert crossing would improve the flow of the Mpazi stream
and prevent flooding at the crossing of a main street during heavy rains.
31.        Water and electricity distribution would be improved along main
streets and in the districts least vell served at present. Refuse would be
collected at 4 public sites and 39 smaller sites serving residential areas
using mobile containers. The on-site sanitation program to be carried out
in the upgrading neighborhoods and elsewhere in Kigali is described in Annex
9. Loans for construction or improvement of latrines would be made by the
Banques Populaires, who would alseo provide credits to about 3,000 families
for housing improvements. The Improvements most in demand by residents of
the upgrading neighborhoods include roof and foundation repairs and
additional rooms for renting. Land reserves would be created for future
public facilities such as community centers.
32.        Civil works would be phased in order for CHR and private firms
to benefit from experience, and to take account of progress in cost
recovery.  The first phase would place emphasis on stormwater drainage of
the entire ares, on improvements to critical arterial streets, and on
resettlement. In the second phase the other streets vill be improved, vater
and electricitylpublic lighting networks strengthened, sewerage improved at
the prison located vithin the area, and garbage collection introduced. Upon
completion of the firet phase, the financisl situation of the Kigali



- 116 -
ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 12
Nmunicipality would be assessed. The second phase vould be launched provided
progresa in collection of plot charges and property taxes due is
satisfactory. In the case of a hiatus between phases, there would be no
special problems related to a delay or cancellation of subsequent phases.
33.        Gaculiro (Kixali) Serviced Plots.  The creation of serviced
plots is a simplified procedure of urbanizing land.  The site development
plan (croquis d'aménagement) first describes broad categories of land use
and indicates where future infrastructure vould be placed. Housing vould be
built on plots that now form part of agricultuîal holdings, portions of
which vould be sold by their occupants either to individuals or to
associaticns of house builders. It is expected that all current residents
of the area vould remain on their land, and therefore vould sell only a
portion of their holdings for urban use. Commune officials, particularly
the conseiller de secteur, vould supervise this process. Expropriations
vould be limited to the land required for primary and secondary streets and
for public facilities.
34.        The Gaculiro site consists of 46 ha of land close to the new
admnaistrative center of Kacyiru, and for some time has been a prime
location for the expansion of Kigali. The maximum 10% slopes allov for
relatively low coat construction (in the Kigali context), and the site vould
accommodate 850 plots and a population that vithin 5 years should reach
6,500 (see Map 20889). Basic street improvements, drainage, 7 vater
etandpipes, public lighting, and 7 refuse collection points vould constitute
the bulk of civil vorks on the site for the time being. Housing credits
vould be provided by the Banques Populaires. As Ls typical in Kigali, most
commercial and artisan activities are vell integrated vith housing. A zone
of 0.5 ha adjacent to the market vould consequently be provided in order to
encourage artisan activities.
35.        Matyazo (Butare) Serviced Plots.   The Matyazo site provides a
further illustration of the serviced plot concept, la which local
authorities develop sites for urban use but avoid having recourse to
expropriation. There are presently about 50 families living on this site.
Of this number, about 20 depend exclusively on agriculture. Even these 20
vould not be diaplaced from the site, however. They vould sell part of
their land to the holder of customary rights (the commune). The sale price
vould be negotiated between the two parties.  If an owner vere to refuse to
sell, the local authorities could always use the expropriation law.
Hovever, recent experience with a similar approach, in the neighborhood of
Kimisagara, indicated that the persuasion of the cennseiller de secteur and
the Bourgmestre vas incentive enough to proceed vith the transaction. The
Matyazo site of 9.5 ha is also vell situated, at 2 km from the center of
Butare. Within 5 years a total of 1,800 people are expected to live on the
250 plots into which the site vould be divided. Infrastructure and service
levels vould be similar to those of Gaculiro.



- 117 -
ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 12
C. Assistance to Artisans and the Construction Industry
Artisan Assistance
36.        A basic objective of assistance to artisans is to provide access
to plots for placement of workshops. A recent study of metalworkers in
Kigali and Butare carried out by the ILO indicated that 70S of the miero-
enterprises surveyed rent their workshops and 602 come frrom rural areas of
the country, implying that they would have little chance of acquiring title
to a plot of land. Credits for development of the artisan sites and for
construction of workshops would be provided in proportions of 50Z frrom the
IDA credit, 40Z from the Banques Populaires, and 102 from the artisans
themselves. Procedures for determining priorities, acquiring and developing
the sites in Kigali and Butare, and constructing the workshops would be
determined by the artisan associations concerned, probably in consultation
with the artisan federation KORA. The same groupe would decide on the
placement of materials stock eonters, which would also be managed by the
artisan associations.
37.        The study of macroeconomic impacts of programs to assist
artisans is expected to prove quite useful in public expenditure
programming. The number of emall programs to help artisans is proliferating
rapidly in Rwanda, and such a study would contribute to a judgment about
whieh programs deliver good resulte for their cost. The study would be
carried out by a team of specialiste from the National University who have
extensive experience with employment prograus in Rwanda.
Construction Industry Assistance
38.        These actions concentrate on assistance in the brickltile and
sawn vood industries. For the former, the emphasis is on improvement of the
quality of bricks and tiles produced. CAII would organize information
ceampaigna to disseminate standards of production, and very amall credits
(expected to average less than US$100) would be given by the Banques
Populaires for purchase cf molda and tools. A total of 5 credits of FRW 4
million (US$52,000) each would be provided to artisan groups or small
enterprises for the development of production centers using improved mixers,
presses, and kilns. Credits of similar amounts are expected to be used for
purchase of inventory at 2 distribution centers to be established.
39.        Assistance to the sawn wood industry would take the form of
training and credite to sawyers in order to standardize quality and also
diversify the product line. Small production unite are also expected to be
created. Storage centers for sawn wood close to the point of use would also
be developed under the supervision of AEFB.
40.        Two studies are designed to  improve the information base on
possible use of other local materials and on construction coste. The high
price of cerent has led to a search for other binders, especially lime and



_118 -
ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 12
pouzzolane cement, on which several technical studies have been undertaken.
These technical aspects would be analyzed in a more explicitly macroeconomic
context to determine the financial and economic viability of the alternative
possibilities. The study of construction costs, in which the Ministry of
Finance has expressed a special interest, would be carried out at an early
stage of implementation so that any recommended measures could be put in
place within the progtam.
D.  Summary of Activities b, City
41.        KiRali.  Actions to be carried out in Kigali include
establishment of a Financial Affaire Department, creation of a Property Tax,
and establishment of the Urban Development Department (SDU). The SDU would
be responsible for maintenance of the land registry, delivery of Occupancy
Permits, collection of solid waste, and street maintenance. Housing would
be improved through implementation of the upgrading and serviced site
programs as well as the on-site sanitation program. Artisan work sites
would also be constructed.
42.        Butare.  A Financial Departmant, to be created, would carry out
Improvements in financial management and introduce the Property Tax. The
SDU would be established beginning in year 2. Arrangements for maintenance
of the land registry and delivery of Occupancy Certificates are the same as
for Kigali. The SDU would be responsible for collection of solid waste.
Artisan work sites would be constructed at sites to be determined by KORA in
collaboration with the Commune of Ngoma.
43.        Ruhengeri and Gisenyi.  In these two secondary towns the Urban
Inspector of the Prefecture would also be chief of the SDU, whose
responsibilities would focus initially on solid waste collection. As in
Butare, local taxation including collection of the Property Tax would be the
responsibility of the Financial Department. The SDU would be established in
year 2.
44.        CyanRugu, Rwamaxana, Ruhango, and Mukamira.  In these smaller
towns the responsibilities of the Urban Inspectors at the prefectural level
for urban development would be enhanced beginning in year 3. As in all
other towns, however, efforts would be made to improve financial management,
basic financial planning, and record keeping. Land registries would also be
introduced. Other services such as solid waste collection and street
maintenance, together wirh the Property Tax to recover their coats, could be
launched at a later stage if the towns grow more rapidly than now foreseen.



- 119 -
Aunex 6
RWMADA
URBAN INS ITUTIONS SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estfimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USS million)
IDA                                      Cumulative           Undisbureed
Fiscal    Semester        Disbursements  Disbursements           Balance
Year      Ending         Amount      S  Amount       X        Amount    Z
1989     Jiune 1989        0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0      32.0   100.0
1990      December 1989   0.5       1.6    0.5       1.6       31.5    98.4
June 1990       0.9       2.8    1.4       4.4      30.6    95.6
1991      December 1990   3.5      10.9    4.9      15.3       27.1    84.7
June 1991       3.5      10.9    8.4      26.3      23.6    73.7
1992      December 1991   4.0      12.5   12.4      38.8       19.6    61.2
Jiune 1992      4.0      12.5   16.4      51.3      15.6    48.7
1993      December 1992   3.0       9.4   19.4      60.7       12.6    39.3
June 1993       3.0       9.3   22.4      70.0       9.6    30.0
1994      December 1993   2.5       7.8   24.9      77.8        7.1    22.2
June 1994       2.5       7.8   27.4      85.6       4.6    14.4
1995      December 1994   1.6       5.0   29.0      90.6        3.0     9.4
June 1995       1.5       4.7   30.5      95.3       1.5     4.7
1996      December 1995   1.5       4.7   32.0    100.0        0.0      0.0



- 120 -
Annox 7
RWANDA
URSAN INSTITUTIONS SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imploeont tton Sch-dule
…-I-- -----       -----I…              ---
VWt 1 1990  1  1991    1  1992  1  1993  1   1994    1 1995  1
CI 112994    12918 4     1 2 a 4    1 2 I8 4    1     2 8 4  12   4
e=;                     !~~~~~~~~~~ I  ,                                          t I
A.1 Local Revenue Generation       l         I            I                                            |
end Flnàn        Manenag eme nt     ----,-------!                I
- Inv stzntI- I--l--ll I
- Recurrent Expence.                       - - ------ - - - ----- ------ - --
A.2 CID                             -------|-                        I          I          I           t
A.8 Houeing Finance                1 …         --------- -   --I- - --                                - - -I
- Kt  11               !~      ~ I           !           I                     !           I
Inveten                    I    -                           !                      ! 
-- Recurrent Expenes                -I            -Il _                               1-
- Buter., Ruhengeri, Ctlunyl                                                           I
-- Investaents                I                                I - -
Recurrent Exp nx  o  __l  
-4 oaller conter*              I         I _ _-_                    l       -I                    I
8.2 Rehabllitetion of CHR        | -_-_-I--_-_-I-_--I|---|-
B.8 Securlty of Urban Land T       nur  I------
B H4 Houelng PrograsI
-Urdtng KlgllI                           1 I              1                            - I
- écullro QKlg ll)l-lll  I
- Matysto (Butare)             |         I           1 -                    I          I
C.1 Asslstnce teo Artisans         i    ---
C.2 Assltence to the Constructlonl           l           I           l          l          I          I
Secor                          I    _  _lI-__-I-- _--_-I                    II 
D. Progra Management
- EquIpment, N t rielc, *tc e.  
- R«currInt Exponc             t         |         --1-          _ _    i _           I           I
T«ehnicl Aseistance             ---
Trr lnlng    ------|I                                I          I



- 121 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
COMMWNAL REVENUE GENERATION
AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
1.        Local finances play a major role in mobilizing domestic
resources. The 143 communes in the country raised about FRW 1.3 billion in
1985, equivalent to 8 percent of central goveriment tax revenue. This has
allowed the communes in Rwanda to enjoy some degree of financial autonomy.
Hovever, vith the increasing responsibility of the communes, particularly
the urban ones under the present program, a modification of the local tax
structure and of communal financial management practices is needed. The
introduction of a property tax starting with the four major cities selected
in the programi Kigali, Butare, Ruhengeri and Gisenyi on a) commercial
buildings; b) registered properties and c) non registered properties would
give financial resources to the communes to manage their urban development.
The 1973 decree on commercial buildings (base 1 and 2) vill need to be
modified and integrated under the Communal juriediction.
2.        The proposed property tax includes the following:
-    Commercial and industrial buildingst these are in four
categories of which the Kigali Population vould pay FRW 2101m2
per year, other urban areas FRW 1301m2, rural areas FRW 551m2
and some commercial centers lying outside urban districts vould
be taxed FRW 961m2 per year.
I _ Registered residential buildings which consist of two levelss a)
major urban centers vith FRW 50/m2 for high standard and FRW
401m2 for lover standard, b)s less developed urban areas FRW
5,000 per year.
-    Non registered buildings vith three categories and ranging from
FRW 1,000 to FRW 8,000 per year.
-    Non developed land, registered and non registered in Kigali and
other urban areas vith FRW 101m2 a year to FRW 50/m2 a year.
3.        Cash floas have been prepared for Kigali, Butare, Ruhengeri and
Gisenyi (see Tebles A through D of this Annex) based on the minimum rates
proposed above and taking into consideration the expected increase in new
housing developments for the four cities up to the year 2000 with an
increase of 51 in the rates starting in 1995. Expenses are also adjusted
based on rates of local inflation. Financial forecaste show that Kigali
vould be able to pay for its investment, operating coste and maintenance
(including reneval of investuent) and debt service. Butare vould be able
to support operating coste and maintenance as vell as debt service related
to the Natyazo serviced plots. Ruhengeri and Gisonyi vould be able to meet
operating costs only. The Ngoma (Butare) commune needs to adjust its
revenue base before other communes around the year 2000. However g'Lven the
conservative nature of revenue projections, the adjustment required vould
not be a major one.



_ 122 -
AMNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
4.        The new role of the communes in urban development iill require a
anv type of organlzation and human resources. A Departm.nt of Fiaancial
Affaire vith two dlvisions (Local Finance and Accounting, and Local
Taxation) would be created In Kigali. These divisians would be staffed by
qualified personnel capable of introducing financial management tools
(accrual accounting, financial planning nad budgetiag, internal control
systemo, cost accounting and use of compaters where appropriate).
Financial departments would also be created in Butare, Ruhengeri, and
Gisenyi. The other four cities of the project would alse begin to use
simple financial planning for their operations.



- 123 -
ANNEX 8
Table A                                                                                    Page 3 of 6
KIGALI
CASH FLOU
(M2c1181Isn)
91     92     93     94      95     96     97     98      99    200
REVUIES
Prior to Project          35     35     35     35      37     39     41      43     45     47
Project-Land Tex
Bme&2                    75     75    75      75    79       83     B7     91   9        101
Registered Land          67     70     74     78      85     94    103    114    125    137
Non Regiotered Land      31     33     36     39      44     50     56     64      72     81
173    179    185    192    208    226    246    268    293    319
Project-Surcharge          O      4     18     36      50     57     61     61      61     61
208    218    239    263    294    322    u7    371    39a    427
EXPENSES
Operating expenu
Prior to project        60     62     65     69      73     77     82     87      92     98
Poject-Operating        78     81     85     90      95    101    107    113    120    127
Depreciation    20      29     31     32     33      34     36     37     39      40
167    173    180    190    201    212    225    237    251    265
Ohbt serice LT             5     17     39     64      78     77     60      47     43      0
SUR        0      4      18     36     50     57      61     61     61     61
5     21     57    101    127    134    120    108    103       61
171    194    237    291    328    347    345    345    354    326
EXPENSE PAID  Y PROJECT          59     61     42       0      0      0      0       0      0      0
PROFIT/L O                       95     85     43   -28    -34    -25         3     26     44    101
PROFIT/LOSB CUUILATIUE           95    190    223    195    161    137    139    166    210    311
CASffL                          124    114     74       4     -I     10     39      64     52    141
CSLOU CUI.ATIUE                 219    294    297    199    161    146    178    229    292    452



- 124 -
Table B                                                                                     ANNEX 8
OUTARE                                              Page  4  of  6
CASH FLOU
FORECASTS
(FRU/million)
91    92    93    94    95    96    97    98    99   200
REvErt8'ES
Prior to Project      20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  21.0  22.1  23.2  24.3  25.5  26.8
Project-Land Tax
8asel&2               4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.8   5.1   5.3   5.6   5.9   6.2
Registered Land       4.7   5.0   5.3   5.6   6.2   6.9   7.7   8.5   9.4  10.5
Non Registered Land   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7   1.9   2.1   2.3   2.5   2.8   3.1
10.7  11.1  11.5  11.9  12.9  14.0  15.3  16.6  18.1  19.8
Project-Surcharge      0.0   0.2   0.7   1.4   1.9   2.2   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3
30.7  31.3  32.2  33.3  35.8  38.3  40.7  43.2  45.9  48.9
EXPENSES
Operating expenses
Prior to project    20.0  70.8  21.6  22.9  24.3  25.8  27.3  28.9  30.7  32.5
Poject-Operating     9.0   9.4   9.7  10.3  10.9  11.6  12.3  13.0  13.8  14.6
Depreciation   1.9   2.0   2.1   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6   2.7
30.9  32.1  33.4  35.4  37.5  39.7  42.0  44.5  47.1  49.9
Debt service  LT       0.o   0.1   0.4   0.7   0.9   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1
SUR     0.0   0.2   0.7   1.4   1.9   2.2   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3
0.0   0.3   1.1   2.1   2.8   3.2   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4
30.9  32.4  3>.5  37.5  40.3  42.9  45.4  47.3  50.5  53.3
EXPENSES PAID BY PROJECT     9.0   7.0   7.3   5.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
PROFITXLOSS                  8.8   5.9   4.9   0.9  -4.5  -4.6  -4.7  -4.6  -4.6  -4.4
PROFIT/LOSS CUHULATIUE       8.8  14.7  19.6  20.5  16.1  11.5   6.8   2.1  -2.4  -6.8
CASHFLOU                    10.7   7.8   7.0   3.1  -2.2  -2.3  -2.3  -2.1  -2.0  -1.7
CASHFLOU CUHULATIUE         10.7  18.5  25.5  28.6  26.3  24.1  21.8  19.6  17.7  16.0



- 125 -
Table C
RUHENGERI                                             Page  5  of  6
CASH FL0U
FORECASIS
(FRi/aillion)
91    92    93    94    95    96    9,    98    99   200
REUENUES
Prior tu Project       9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6  10.1  10.6  11.1  11.7  12.3  12.9
Project-Land Tax
tasel&2               1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.3
Reqistered Land       5.5   5.8   6.2   6.6   7.3   8.1   9.0   9.9  ll.C   12.3
Non RegistoTed Lmd    1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7   1.9   2.1   2.3   2.5   2.8   3.1
7.9   8.3   8.8   9.2  10.2  11.2  12.4  13.7  15.1  16.7
Project-surcharge      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
17.5  17.9  18.4  18.8  20.3  21.8  23.5  25.4  27.4  29.6
EXPEMES
Operating expenses
Prior to project     9.4   8.7   9.1   9.4   9.8  10.2  10.6  11.1  11.5  12.0
Poject-Operating     8.5   8.8   9.2   9.7  10.3  10.9  11.6  12.3  13.0  13.8
Depreciation   1.7   1.8   1.8   1.9   2.0   2.1   2.2   2.2   2.3   2.4
18.6  19.3  20.1  21.1  22.1  23.2  24.4  25.6  26.9  28.2
3ebt usrvic.,  LT      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
SUR     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
18.6  19.3  20.1  21.1  22.1  23.2  24.4  25.6  26.9  28.2
EXPENSES PAID BY PROJECT     8.5   8.8   6.9   3.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
PROFIT/LOSS                  7.4   7.4   5.1   1.6  -1.9  -1.4  -0.9  -0.2   0.5   1.4
PROFIT/LOSS CU1ULATIUE       7.4  14.8  19.9  21.6  19.7  18.2  17.4  17.1  17.6  19.0
CASHFLOW                     9.1   9.2   7.0   3.5   0.1   0.6   1.3   2.0   2.8   3.8
CASHFLON CUNULATIUE          10.7  19.9  26.9  30.4  30.5  31.1  32.4  34.4  37.2  41.0



- 126-
Table D                                                                                    ANNEX 8
Page  6 of 6
_ - .
CASH FLN
FORECASTS
(F 9/nillion)
91    92    93    94    "5    96    97    98    39 200
REVENUES
Prior to Project     13.6  13.6  13.6  13.6  14.3  15.0  15.7  16.5  17.4  18.2
Project-Land Tax
Baael&2              1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.J   1.1   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.3
Registered Land      5.9   6.3   6.6   7.0   7.8   8.7   9.6  10.7  11.8  13.1
Non Registered Land   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7   1.9   2.1   2.3   2.5   2.8   3.1
a.3   8.7   9.2   9.7  10.7  11.8  13.0  14.4  15.9  17.6
Project-Surcharge     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
21.9  22.3  22.8  23.3  25.0  26.8  28.8  30.9  33.3  35.8
EXPENSES
Operating expenses
Prior to project    10.6  11.0  11.5  11.9  12.4  12.9  13.4  13.9  14.5  15.1
Poject-Op.rating    8.5   9.8   9.2   9.7  10.3  IC.9  11.6  12.3  13.0  13.8
Depreciation  1,7   1.8   1.8   1.9   2.0   2.1   2.2   2.2   2.3   2.4
20.8  21.6  22.5  23.C  24.7  25.9  27.2  28.5  29.9  31.3
Debt service  LT      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
SUR     0.0   G.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
20.8  21.6  22.5  23.6  24.7  25.9  27.2  28.5  29.9  31.3
EXPENSES PAID BY PROJECT    8.5   8.8   6.9   3.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
PROFIT/LOSS                 9.6   9.5   7.2   3.6   0.3   0.9   1.6   2.5   3.4   4.5
PROFIT/ILOSS CUNULATIUE     9.6  19.1  26.3  30.0  30.2  31.1  32.7  35.2  38.6  43.1
EN        MULATIVE         i:7    23M 3           t  il 3663  1:8  45 653  s b:ô SEO     9



- 127 -
ANNEX 9
Page l of 6
RWANDA
URBAN INSTITUTIONS SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Site Sanitation Proaram
Ob1ectives
1.         The development objective of the on-site sanitation program la
to improve the overall environment and public health in Kigali and other
major towns of Rwanda by creating and/or strengthening agencies responsible
for the development and management of sanitation programs.
2.         The immediate objectivea aret
(a) To develop safe, affordable and socially acceptable on-site
sanitation facilities in the upgrading and serviced-plot areas
in Kigali and Butare which are lncluded in the World Bank Urban
Institutions Sectoral Development Project and elsewhere in
Kigali.
5b) Te establish and p-ut lto operation financing and cost-recovery
mechanisms in relation to the credit program of the Union des
Banques Populaires du Rwanda, to help bring banking funds vithin
reach of householders to construct or improve sanitation
facilities.
(c) To strengthen the capacity of national and local institutions to
develop, manage and deliver sustainable urban sanitation
services.
(d) To develop use of local materials and enhance the capacity of
artisanm and contractors in the construction and improvement of
sanitation facilities.
(e) To prepare large-scale on-site sanitation programs for Kigali,
But&re and other urban centers of Iwanda.
Program Description
3.         The on-site sanitation program aims to develop and improve
sanitation institutions and practices required for sanitation facilities to
be properly planned. constructed, improved, operated and maintained. The
proposed program would have the following components:
(a) Supplementary and feasibility studies and detailed designa for
household, group-owned, public and institutional latrines,
soakaway pits and small-bore sewer systems.



- 128 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 6
(b) Construction of about 1,680 household and group-owned latrines
and 1,680 soakaway pits in the upgrading and resettlement areas
of Kigali and the serviced-plot areas of GaculirolKigali and of
MatyazolButare.
(c)  Construction of about 12 public and institutional latrines in
Kigali and Butare.
(d) Improvement of about 3,500 latrines and construction of 3,500
soakaway pits in the upgtading areas of Kigali.
(e) Preparation and implementation of a sensitisation program.
(f) Model financing plan, including establishment of a guarantee
fund.
(g) Training.
(h) Research for development of local materials and advisory support
and training for artisans and contractors.
(i) Preparation of large-scale projects suitable for financing by
funding and donor agencies.
4.         Furthermore, the Project would finance posting of a sanitary
engineer t^nrough technical assistance; the employment of local personnel
comprising one engineer, one technician and one health agent; and the
purchase and operation and maintenance of project vehicles and other
equipment.
Cost Estimates
5.         The cost of the on-site sanitation program is estimated at about
FRW 224 million (US$2,9 million) lncluding credits from the Banques
Populaires taken out by households for this purpose. Credits advanced by
the Banques Populaires would ultimately be financed by householdu.  The
balance, which includes the Guarantee Fund, would be financed from the IDA
credit, cofinancing from UNCDF, and the Government contribution.
6.         The above cost estimate and financing is based on the following
assumptions:
(a) The sanitary engineer financed through the technical assistance
(item (e) of this paragraph) would, among other duties and
responsibilities, assess the personnel and training needs of the
agencies involved in sanitation, provide on-the-job training,
and prepare the training materials.
(b) The Project would not finance study tours and participation of
Rvandese counterpart staff in sanitation projecta in other
African countries.



- 129 -
ANNE 9
Page 3 of 6
(c)  The research for the development of local mater$als for use in
latrine construction and improvement and advisory support to
artisans and contractors vould be, as originally proposed, part
of th. 'Assistance to Artisans and the Construction Industrym  of
the main Project, but vithout an additional budget being
allocated for it in the on-site sanitation program.
(d) There would be no additional budget for th. preparation of
large-scale on-site sanitation projecte for Kigali, Butare, and
other urban contera; and the work would be carried out by th.
sanitation team to be established in DGW/MINITRAPE and the
sanitary engineer, financed through thé technical assistance,
that would bead this tesm.
(e) The technical assistance for the sanitary engineer vould be for
18 monthas full time during the firet year and for six periode
of one month duratLen each distributed over the remaining four
years.
Cost Recovery
7.         The coet recovery and financing would be as follovat
(a) Cost recovery for the construction or improvement of private
sanitation facilities would be ensured through the relabursement
of the debt to the Banques Populaires by the concerned borrower.
(b) Operation sad maintenance costs of public latrines would be
recovered through user charges.
(c) The coet of technical assistance vould not be recovered.
(d)  The cost of the other components of the on-site sanitation
program would be borne by the Government.
Imolementation Details and Roles of the Varlous ARencies
8.         Certain elements of the on-site sanitation program would be
integrated into the project's major components, namely assistance to
artisans and the construction industry, and the housing programs
(a)  The research for the development of local materials for use ln
latrine construction and support to artisans and contractors
would be part of the aAssistance to Artisans and the
Construction Industry  components;
(b) The financing and construction of sanitation facilities in
conjunction vith housing financing and construction vould be
undertaken by CHR and the Banques Populaires as part of the
housaing program.



- 130 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 6
(c) The construction supervision of public and lnstitutional
latrines would be included in the consultancy agreements to b.
concluded for the supervision of the different infrastructure
works of the housing program.
9.         The Profecture of the City of Kigali, the Commune of Ngoma,
DGW/MINITRAPE, the Health Ministry, and CHR are the principal implementing
agencies. The urban communes would be ln charge of the on-site sanitstion
program, but vould delegate the management teo the DGW of MINITRAPE. A
Sanitation Team, consisting initially of four persons and located in DGW's
Sanitation Division, would coordinate the activities of the implementing
agencies.
10.        The Prefecture of the City of Kigali and the Commune of Ngoma
wouldt
(a)  inform and prapare the population with regard to the
sensitisation campaigna and implement the sensitization program;
(b) assist householders in securing credit for constructing oe
improving their sanitation facilities;
(c)  inspect and control latrines in use;
sd)  operate and manage the public toilets;
(e) delegate to CHR the iprovement sad construction of sanitation
facilities that would be undertaken as part of the upgrading and
new housing construction; and
if)  delegate the management of the totality of other activities to
DGW/MINITRAPE, the 'Maitre de l'Ouvrage Déligui".
11.        DGWIMINITRAPE, the delegated Government executing agency for the
on-site sanitetion program, would also have prime responsibility for the
implementation of the fol.lowing program components or elementss
(a) Supplementary and feasibility studies and detailed designe and
related documents.
(b) Preparation of guidelines for latrine improvement.
(c) Preparation of guidelines for the lmplementation of
sensitization programs.
(d) Construction of public and institutional latrines and
supervision of the construction.
(e) Dissemination of information to other sanitation projecta.
(f) Preparation of large-scale sanitation projects.



- 131 -
ANMEX 9
Page 5 of 6
(g)  Coordination of program activities with those of the sanitation
study for Kigali.
12.        The Ministry of Health would be a '.ooperating agency and
associated with most of the program components. Its involvement vould foeus
ont
(a) Collaboration with DGW/MINITRAPE in the preparation and
implementation of the training program.
(b) Provision of conceptual designa for sanitation facilities to
DGWINIITRAPE.
(c) Collaboration with DGWIMINITRAPE in the preparation of commente
on the draft reports.
(d) Preparation of materials for the sensitization program.
(e)  Collaboration with the urban communes sad the DGWIMINITRAPE in
the implementation of the sensitization programs.
(f)  Collaboration with the urban communes in the inspection of
constructed sanitation facilities and in the monitoring of those
ln use.
(g) Information dissemination to agencies and projects associated
vith the Mlnistry of Health, in the preparation and
implementation of sanitation projecta.
13.        CHR vould have overall delegated responsibility for the
finaucing and management of the construction and improvement of individual
or group-owned sanitation facilities lu conjunction vith the finsacing and
management of the construction and upgrading of houses.
14.        L'Union des Banques Populaires woulds
(a)  finance the construction and improvement of sanitation
facilities through credits to individual householders;
(b)  establish a savings program for on-site sanitation, which vill
be referred to as PEAI (Programme Epargne Assainissement
Individuel), for the construction and improvement sanitation
facilities not integrated with housing construction;
(c) participate in the preparation of sensitization materials
concerning the PEAI and in the presentation of these materials
to representatives of the population, moet conveniently at the
"sector" level; and



- 132 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 6
(d) conduct a son3itizatîon campaign on the PEAI, taking i»to
account the experience gained in the program sad cempaign of the
ADF-financed and UNDP-assisted Sanitation Pilot Project.
15.        The placement of sanitary facilities will be determined through
application of urban planning procedures put in place under tie project.
The urban communes, wvth supervision by the Program Unit vithin the Public
Works Ministry, would manage the delivery of building penmits for sanitary
facilities. Although the decision to build private latrines not linked to
new construction is a private one, it would be consistent with the site
development plan approved for each district. The coordination between the
techniciens responsible for preparation of the site development plans on the
one hand, and health workers and others concerned directly with sanitation
on the other, vould be the responsibility of the municipality or commmne
and, through them, the Program Unit.



- 133 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 9
CHR t FINANCIAL CONDITION ANM PROSPECTS
The Caisse Hypothécaire du Rwanda (CHR) -as created by a
Presidential decree on June 17, 1975 and ls managed under the laws of
private corporations. It la a 'Société Mixte de Droit Privé' whose role 1s
to provide housing for urban areas in Rwanda. The shareholders are both
private sad public, as shown in the follcwing distribution of share
capital$
Since J7lv 1983
(FRW million)       z
Treasury of the Republic of Rwanda        37.5
Parastatal entities
- Caisse Sociale                         100
- Office du thé                           10
Sub-total State and parastatals   147.5             62.1
Rvandese Banks                            70
Magasnas Ginéraux du Rwanda
(entrepat)                          25
Sub-total private                   95              37.9
TOTAL                                   237.5           100.0
Up to 1983 it acted as a housing developer, undertook limited development
of housing for its own account and undortook three loan campaigna.
The CHR vas restructured in 1983. The main facets of this
reorganization vere 1) the reorientation of CHR's activity from a
construction company to a promoter and mortgage company; 2) the appointment
of a nev Director General vith three departments and the recruitment of
qualified staff; 3) an increase in the sources of financing by increasing
the capital from FRW 85 million to FRW 237.5 million and obtaining a
government loan of FRW 158 million. From 1983 to 1986 CHR mainly developed
and sold 126 housing units financed by Government loans at 3S interest.
A management audit vas carried out in 1986 by Coopers and
Lybrand financed by USAID to assist the CHR in upgrading its internal
management, organization and financial systems. Recommendations vere made
for improving financial accounting procedures, management information, loan
procedures, cost recovery, staffing and organization and computerization.
One of the recommendatiuns of Coopers and Lybrand vas to reduce the
personnel to 25.
The financial performance of CHR has been poor.  It bas made
losses since its inceptton up to December 31, 1988 (se. Financial
Statements, in this Annex).  The negative results are due to fact that
personnel and other administrative expenses have far outveighed revenues.



- 134 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 9
Indeed, staff coste alone have exceeded gross revenues. Financial
projections have been made over a 5 year restructuring period (1990-1994),
adopt;ing reasonable assumptions for revenues and personnel and
admlristrative costa. During the 5 year period additional revenues vill
come Erom the sale of Government plots, financial intermediation operations
with commercial banks and Banques Populaires and refinancing part of CHR's
eligible portfolio with BNR. Expenses have been adjusted on the assumption
that CHR vill have a maximrim of 5% Increase in operating expenses over the
five-year period.
The restructuring plan would be executed by CHR under a Program
Contract (attached to this annex) signed with Government. Under the ter"s
of the Program-Contract, revenues from the sale of Government plots and of
financial intermediation activities would rise to over FRW 20 million by
1993, due largely to the sale of at least 80% of Government plots over the
firet two years of the program. To broaden its revenue base, CHR would
also initiate mortgage insurance for housing and use its present and future
portfolio to mobilize additional resources (refinancing its portfolio with
the Central Bank). CHR would carry out a substantial training program for
its staff that would prepare them for the new role of the institution
during and after the transition period. A decision would be reached at the
end of the 5-year period as to the future orientation of CHR, based on the
results that would evolve from the transition period. On present
indications it appears likely that CHR would then either continue in both
roles or become a full-time financial intermediary.



- 135 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 9
CAIS& BYPOTHECAIRE N  RMOPa                                      3o
(CHR)
BALA»CE SHEET
(<illion/frn)
------  --   -  ---"ctunl----------------- -------           - --------------- Foretast ------ - -
1982    1383       1984    1985    1986  1987         1988            1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
ASSETS
Cash                          27      70         196      63       40       22      16              24       27      39      48       55
ffisoellsnuous accounts
receivable                31      67         14      153       28      24       60             104       97     191     198     220
Interin finance                0       O          O        O        O        O       0             160      160      80      90       80
Loans                          7      10           8      47      190      204     245             232      391     527     668      826
Equity investmnt               O       O           0       6        9       10      10               12      12      12       12      12
Fixed assts                   28      43         125      60       55       4.      46               43      41      39       41      43
Total                93      210        344     328       322     307     385                      718      818    1047    1236
LIABILITIES
Short tert debt               16       5           4       8       23       20      20              37       43      50      48       46
Provisions                     5       9          10      13       13       13       6               10      14      19      24       32
Long term debt:Gavernen        0       0         158     158      159      158     158             158      156     146      138     130
Other         O        O          O       O         O       0      96              251     380   519        665     821
Net Worth
mhare capital             e5     239        238      238      239     238      238             238      238     238     238     238
Retairnd earnings         -2     -13        -42      -66      -98    -109    -122             -123    -120    -113      -9U     -66
Profit-Lois              -11     -29        -24      -23      -21     -13       -1               4        7      19      28       35
72     196        172      149      128     116      115             119      125     144     172      207
Total                93      210        344     328       322     307     385              575     718      879    1047    1236



-136 -                                       ANEX 1O
Page 4 of 9
CAISSE HYPOTHECAIRE DU RIA
C
PROFIT AHO LOBS
<miîIion/fru
-----Actuat                                                         -----Forecast---
1982    1983    1989 1985    19         18      1                1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
EXPENSES
Personuui                     6       8      15     l       18      17      16               19      19      20      21      23
General expensus             75      27      21      26      23      20      19               14      16      10      19      21
Taxes                         0       0       2       S       5       5       0                8       0       0       0       0
Financial chargu              s       4       3       6       5       S       7               IS      26      37      47      57
Total                86      38      40      55      51      46      42               56      61      75      87     101
REUES
fIortgag end intrest          3       2       7      il      19      22      26               36      44      58      71      85
Rent,bale of property         4       5       7      19       9      10       9               15       4      17      17      17
ad uvices
Sale of GOvorument plots rd
financial intr.uatio         0       0       0       0       0       0       0                9      il       9      15      21
Other revenus                67       3       2       3       2       1       6                0       9      10      12      13
75      10      16      32      30      33      41               60      68      94     115     136
Profit/-LoUs              -11      -29     -24    -23      -21     -13      -1                4       7      19      28      35
Total                86      38      40      55      Si      46      42               56      61      75      87     101



- 137 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 9
CONTRAT-PROGRAMHE ENRE L'ETAT RWANDAIS ET LA CAISSE HYPOTHECAIRE
DU RWANDA (EN ABREGE C.H.R.)
EXPOSE DES MOTIFS
Dès le lancement de la Caisse Hypothécaire du Rwanda, plus
particulièrement depuis l'adoption, sur son instigation, des mesures de
restructuration de cette dernière (1983), le Gouvernement Rwandais n'a
cesse de manifester sa volonti politique de soutenir cette institution de
façon à en faire un instrument efficace dans le secteur de l'immobilier, en
particulier, dans celui du logement social.
Après l'adoption de la Stratégie Sectorielle en matière
d'habitat urbain, le Gouvernement Rwandais a décidé (1987) de lier les
mesures de renforcement de cette institution aux programmes d'actions
destinés à mettre en application cette stratégie.
Dans le cadre justement des politiques de mise en oeuvre de
cette stratégie, un consensus s'est établi sur l'opportunité de confier à
la Caisse Hypothicaire du Rwanda les fonctions d'aménageur-promoteur tout
en lui laissant la latitude de continuer à exercer ses fonctions
financières habituelles, étant entendu que ce scénario cohabitationniste
devait être expérimenté sur une période prévisionnelle de cinq ans. piriode
au cours de laquelle sera encouragee l'émergence d'autres opérateurs en
matière d'aménagement-promotion.
Il a été retenu que les fonctions d'aménageur-promoteur, sur la
piriode privisionnelle, se ramèneraient essentiellement à la réalisation
des programmes d'habitat initiés par le Gouvernement dans le cadre de
l'atude sur le renforcenent des institutions urbaines, la Caisse
Hypothicaire jouant le rôle de Maître de l'Ouvrage Déligué.
Il a éti agalement retenu que ce rôle confia à la C.H.R.
d'instrument du Gouvernement dans la mise en oeuvre des politiques
sectorielles pouvait s'atendre à d'autres programmes éventuels comme la
commercialisation des parcelles et/ou la commercialisation du parc de
logements de l'Etat.
Pour la C.H.R., l'exercice des fonctions financières s'est
toujours heurta au problame de disponibilités des ressources. C'est
pourquoi dans le cadre de son renforcement, il convient de doter cette
institution de moyens adéquats, notamment en prenant à son endroit, des
mesures incitatives destinées à lui permettre l'acces aux ressources
financières nationales.
C'est en cousidaration de ce qui est exposé ci-haut que les
parties mettent en place un système de cohabitation des activités
d'madnagement-promotion et de financement du logement et l'entourent de
modalitas que dessous.



- 138 -
ANNRI 10
Page 6 of 9
Article lers Définitionst
Au sens du prisent contrat-programme, 11 faut comprendre part
1.   Parties au contrats
-    L'Etat Rwandais, agissant soit par ses départements
ministériels concernés, soit par la Banque Nationale du Rwanda, ici
reprisenti par
-    La Caisse Hypothécairo du Rwanda, Société d'économie mixte
créée par l'acte constitutif publié au Journal Officiel No.5 du ler mars
1978, autorisae par l'Arrata Présidentiel No. 128/05 du 17 juin 1915,
inscrite au Registre de Commerce de Kigali sous le numéro A.061, ici
reprisentie par son Directeur Géneral, Monsieur SEGASAYO Naxainin, en vertu
des pouvoirs lui conféris par le Conseil d'Administration.
2.   Financement intérimaire:
L'opération qui consiste potr une institution financiêre appelée
en l'occurrence financeur intérimaire, à revendre à court ou moyen terme
les droits de créance sur un client ayant contracta un prêt, a une autre
institution financi&re appelée prêteur permanent, lequel poursuit jusqu'à
parfaite extinction l'eaécution des obligations principales «t accessoires
prises par le client cédé.
Ces opirations, lorsqu'elles se réalisent pour des créances
hypothacaires, constituent de facto ou de jure un marché hypothacaire
secondaire.
3. Assurance h,tothicaires
L'opération par laquelle un intervenant appelé assureur,
s'genage a couvrir les risques de remboursement courus par des
distributeurs de pzats hypothécaires, moyennant ~aiemont, par ces derniers,
de primes a convenir.
4.  Aminafteur-ipromoteurs
Tout opirateur dont le rôle se ramène à coordonner la
production, la viabilisation de terrains ainsi que leur commercialisation
etlou la réalisation de programmes plus ou moins importants de logements
destinas également à la vente.
Article II:
L'Etat, à travers le département ministariel ayant l'urbanisme
et l'habitat dans ses attributions, ainsi que d'autres instances de
concertation éventuelles, confie à la C.H.R. la responsabiliti de gestion
et de mise en oeuvre (Maître de l'Ouvrage Dalégué, pour le compte des
centres urbains) des opérations, requise pour la réalisation des projets de



- 139 -
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 9
restructuration des quartiers MUHIMA, CYAEAFI, GITEGA, NYAKABAUDA et
KIHISAGARA ; Kigali, ainsi que pour la création des mailles d'accueil de
GACULIRO (RIGALI) et MATTAZO (BUTK ).
Article IIIs
L'9Etat,   travers le dapartement ministariel ayant l'habitat et
l'urbanisme dans ses attributions, s'engage a mettre en place dans les
délais utiles, une législation ou une roglementation visant à Intégrer les
opératours professionnels dans la production et la mise en vente de
lotissements.
En particulier, cette lîgislation devra porter sur les principes
de mise en vente et d'appropriation des parcelles, les critères et les
modes d'attribution et de transferts des diffirents titres fonciers.
Article IV:
En ce qui concerne la mise en vente, l'Etat, a travers le
Ministère ayant l'habitat et l'urbanisme dans ses attributions, s'engage à
mettre en oeuvre le principe de la pleine répercussion des colûts de
pr.oduction des parcelles, et à daconcentrer ses activités au profit
d'opirateurs divers tant publics que privas, notammuent la Caisse
Hypothicaire du Rwanda.
Article Vs
En tant qu'opérateur, la C.H.R. s'engage a daserminer sa
politique de prix de façon à ce que les charges de viabilisation des
parcelles soient entièrement couvertes.
A cet eLfet, elle s'engage à procider par soumission à la mise
en vente de parcelles ou de blocs de parcelles.
Elle s'engage en outre à soumettre cette procédure d'attribution
à l'inspection et au coitrale de l'Administration.
Article VI:
L'Etat s'engage à confier à la C.H.R., selon les modalitas a
convenir la commercialisation d'au moins 802 des parcelles produites
annuellement. Le pourcentage des parcelles à mettre en vente par la CH.R.
pourra être ravisi après les deux premières années par l'Etat en accord
avec la C.H.R.
Article VIls
La C.H.R. s'engage à maîtriser ses charges d'exploitation
notamment par la réductlon des charges du personnel et par la limitation de
l'accroissement des dipenses ginirales d'exploitation à un taux moyen de 52
l'an pendant la duree de vie du présent contrat-programme



- 140 -
ANNEX 10
Page 8 of 9
Article VIIIs
D'une manière ginirale, l'Etat assure son aval à la C.N.R. dans
ses efforts de mobilisation des ressources en vue de la rialtdailon de ses
aictivités statutaires actuelles ou adopties dans le prisent contrat-
programme, ainsi que celles touchant de près ou de loin l'exicution des
engagements pris en vertu dudit contrat.
Il soutiendra igalement ses efforts d'accès direct à l'épargne.
Article IX:
L'Etat, à travers la Banque Nationale du Rwanda s'engage à
accorder à la C.H.R. les conditions plus douces de refinancem_nt, notamment
en allongeant les délais prévus pour 1'ichiance des effets à mobiliser, et
en facilitant le recours au réescompte.
Article X:
En vue d'assurer des chances igales à la C.H.R. et au secteur de
financement du logement social, l'Etat à travers la Banque Nationale du
Rwanda, l'autorise à appliquer les taux d'intérîts suffisants pour couvrir
les charges financières.
Article XIs
L'Etat s'engage a prendre les mesures nicessaires à
l'introduction d'un système de financement intirimaire et à en faciliter le
diveloppement, notamment par l'adaptation des dispositiols relatives au
transfert et à l'enregistrement des titres fonciers, ainsi que par
l'adoption par la B.N.R., des directives appropriies.
La C.H.R. s'engage à promouvoir cette nouvelle activité de façon
énergique en itablissant les contacts et la coordination nizossaires avec
les institutions financières intiressées par la financement permanent.
Article XII:
L'Etat s'engage à favoriser l'instauration d'un système
d'assurance hypothicaire, notamment par la constitution d'un fonds spécial
y relatif domicilii à la C.H.R.
En particulier il s'engage par le biais de la Banque Nationale
du Rwanda, à mettre en place la réglementation visant à protéger ce
systeme.
Article XIII:
La C.H.R. s'engage à mettre rapidement tous les moyens en oeuvre
pour entamer les nigociations nicessaires à la mise en place d'un système



- 141 -
ANE  10
Page 9 of 9
de garantie des prêts hypothacatres. Ces négociatiens Impliquent la
constitution d'un comit; ad k,c forma de responsables de diffirentes
institutions financiares intiressaes par ce système de garantie.
Ce comita veillera à ce que soient ilabories les Conditions
Gan&rales de fonctionnement, fixera le mode de tarification des primes
d'assurance, riglmentera le contrôle des créances et l'admissibilité parmi
les prêts garantis.
Article XIV:
La C.N.R. seengage ; dégager les ressources nécessaires pour
fournir une expertise interne ou externe appelée à iclairer le comité
d'implantation du systeme de garantie dans ses dicisions.
Article XV:
La C.N.R. assure la planification du systame de garantie dans
les deux annies qui suivront l'adoption du principe et de la réglementation
y relative.
Article XVIm
La C.H.R. s'eigage à digager les ressources nécessaires à la
formation adaptée à la rise en place des nouvelles activitas, et à libérer
tels membres de son personnel que de besoin pour des stages de formation.
Article XVIIs
Dans la mesure de ses possibilités, la C.H.R. s'engage à faire
et a encourager la recherche et l'expirimentation nécessaires aux fins
d'identifier les types de logements accessibles à divers revenus des
minages et de promouvoir l'utilisation des matériaux locaux dans ses
programes de logements sociaux.
Article XVIII:
Le prisent contrat-progrnmue prend effet le jour de sa
signature.
Le statut de cohabitation des fonctions y stipuli sera réexaminé
dans les cinq prochaines annies à compter de l'entrie en vigueur du
contrat.
Fait à                   le
LA CAISSE HYPOTIECAIRE              L'ETAT RWANDAIS



- 142 -
ANNEX il
Page 1 of 6
Beneflt Estimation and Economic Rates of Return
1.        For the elements of the project relating to physical
environmental Improvements and housing, changes in land and property values
vere used as indicators of benefits. It is recognized that this measure
represents only an approximation of benefits. First, imperfections in
markets for land and housing vill result La a divergence between observed
changes ln property values and the changes that just capitalise the
b.nefits of the project. As an example, the impacts of benefits that are
difficult to quantify or isolate from other benefits, such as health
LImpacts of tmproved vater supply and sanitation, may or may not have been
captured.  The first factor is probably not significant in Kigali and
Butare since the housing market In low-income districts is fairly
competitive. In a reasonably vell functioning urban land market, as is the
case in the larger cities in Rwanda, it is expected that a significant
fraction of total bonefits vould be capitalized into property values. For
other elements of the total program there in greater variability in the
nature and volume of actions to be supported, and (as is the case for
artisan and construction lndustry promotion, land management, and local
taxation) Lt iL difficult to identify any quantified measure as
representative of benefits. Economic rates of return vere therofore not
calculated for these elements.
2.        Changes ln the rental value of properties (valeurs locatives)
vere used to measure benefits. Because in Kigali the proport'on of renters
is about 552, rental value information obtained from market transactions
vas available in the majority of cases. Imputed rental values for similar
or identical dwellings were used for the owner-occupIed housing. Costa in
foreign exchange vere increased 201 to represent possible overvaluation of
th. Rvandose Franc. The cost of labor vas not adjusted.
3.        For the upgrading neighborhoods, the two types of benefits of
the program are shovn in Table 1. As a result of the improvements
introduced, increments in rental value of 25S, 302, and 352 &'ou1d be
observed for the 6,315 existing dwellings in the naeighborhood.
Differentials in rental values would vary according to the type of house
and the level of services provided. The full increment vould not be
realised until year 5, vith 50Z of the Increment assumed in year 2, 752 in
year 3, and 902 in year 4.  The second benefit is new housing that the site
development plan plus home construction and improvement credits vould make
possible.  A total of 2,490 new dwelllngs are expected to be constructed
throughout the neighborhoods, in lnfill areas and on existing plots.  One-
quarter of these nev dwellings are assumed to be built in each of years 2
to 5. Again the increment in rental values is taken as the measure of
benefita. Recurrent costs vere considered to be 42 of investment cost,
beginning in year 2 at a lover amount and entering fully as from year 4.
These calculations are summarized in Table 1.  The resulting series of
costs and benefits is given In Table 2.
4.        For the serviced plots at Gaculiro (Kigali) and Matyazo
(Butare), the detailed analysis -l shown Ln Table 3. Costs Ln foreign



- 143 -
AN1EX 11
Page 2 of 6
exchange are again subject to a 202 adjustment. Recurrent costs in these
newly developed areas are taken to bo 32 of total costs.  Benef it  consist
of tacrements in both land values, occasioned by tle transition to urban
use, and in annual rental values. Land prices are considered to increase
from PRW 100 to FRW 300-350 per m2 as a result of this urbanisation
process. Previous examples in Kigali have indicated that this increase is
a reasonable reflection, if not actually a conservative one, of the patterm
of land price movements following urbanisation. The louer figure of FRW
300 per m2 is applied to Butare, the less urbanized town. The increase is
spread over three years. Increases in annual rental values accrue more
slowly than In the upgrading neighborhoods since the new housing vill take
longer to complete. The 2,000 new houses at Gaculiro and 500 at Matyaso
are considered to be built at the rate of 200 and 50 per year over 10
years. Benefits are thus cumulative over this period.
5.        The veighted average economic rate of return (ERR) for these
programa is 16S. Neighborhood upgrading, the KigaLi serviced plots, and
the Butare serviced plots show ERRs of 14, 19, and 162 respectively.
Sensitivity tests indicate that if benefits vere to be reduced by 102 and
simultaneously costs increased by the same amount, the veighted average ERR
for the prograus vould still be 112.



144
Annex 11
Poge 3 of 6
Umradinna e iahh4oreodu
Bansfit. CaIauIttien
Table 1
4ouain   l Niumber of Average Annuel Rental    Rentio
UtCorv  Eni-tinq  Sl^            lL-    , Incrc_ens                                Antnuel R nta l            Tot& 
A        1.082       24      729   880          es       8. 6
B        8.479       88    1,092  126.1        as       48.8    1.248      aS   1.092    44.8            8S      18.7
c
(C>)       184      7a    1.204   17.8         80        8.2        -
(c2)        ;       78    2,143   dRS1 30               iLI    124         78   2.14S   208.1            80      Mà
A     n-permanent houaing (dobe. arth)
Il  Seat-parmnent (c_eat foundution. adobe. finish, galvanize  eheet mete).
C. Parenmant (cmnst. brick).
Cl aitheut water or .Iectricity.
C2 wtth water end *lectricit1.
a/ FRW
c/  RI cllion
-J 1/4 con truct d in oach of «yer 2S



145                      Annex  11
Page 4 of 6
Table 2
Serles of Cout end Bnefite
(FR mlllon)
A. Upsradins 9 lghborhoodm
Coatt                        Benef Ite         Net Benefite
Y.ar  Investmnt'J  Rscurrent
1 499tQ)14.7          a                                          -114.7
2     202.8          18              84.  * 19.6 a 64.4          -168.4
8     288.7          17              62.8 + S9.2 a 91.5          -169.2
4      90.4          28              62.8 * 68.8 a 121.0            8.2
6      97.7          28              69.8 * 78.1 = 147.9           22.2
8-28     a            28                 147.9                     119.9
B. Oscullro tKiII) S.rvIc.d Plot.
Cout                         Sendfite          Net Bin.fite
Year  Investmnt*t  Recurent
1(1989)  74                                                         -74
2        74             2              27.7 . 2.7 a 0.4             -4«.ô
a         -             4              27.8 + ,.4 a 88.2             29.2
4         -             4              27.8 + 8.1  86.9              81.9
6         -             4                10.8                         6.8
6         -             4                18.6                         9.8
7         -             4                10.2                        12.2
8         -             4                18.9                        14.9
9         -             4                21.8                        17.6
10        -             4                24.8                        20.8
11-20     -             4                27                          23
*/ Includes forlgn «xchange *l _nt x 1.20.



146                  Aniex 11
Page 5 of 6
C. matyazo tBut a) S.rvIc.d Plots
Coets                       Ben ditt          Net BiwfIts
Y.r  Invtutaont /  R eurrnt
1(1990) 18.2                                                      -18.2
2        18.2        0.4             6.88 * 0.66                   -7.62
8         -          0.8             S.U . 1.8                     6.83
4         -          0.8             5.84 . 1.95                   6.49
t         -          0.8             2.6                            1.8
*         -          0.8             8.26                           2.46
7         -          0.8             8.9                           8.1
8         -          0.8             4.58                          8.76
9         -          0.8             8.2                           4.4
10        -          0.8             8.8s                          C.e6
11-20     -          0.8             6.6                           5.7



147                      Annex 11
Page 6 of 6
Tabl- 8
Servltwd PIo2a
Benefit Calculatton
A. cculiro
DIfferentala                                       Dlffeerntlal
Land Value                                        Houmina Velue
No.     Value     Value     Total      Housino   Number   Annual        S mnc-  Total
ha      aIthout   wlth      Velue      Ct        di of       Rentai      eo      Annual
Projcta/ Pro ects,/ Ineremntb             Housesyr Value/m2   Renta la  Incr_entb/
88.8     lao          su       s8.8       A          48        729         2C       0.2
lie              1,092         86       1.5
Ci         88     1,204         80       1.0
200                            2.7
B. matvyao
Differntinl                                       Dlffe,rntlal
Land Velue                                        Nouoina Value
No.     Value     Value     Total      Houui g   Nu ber   Annuel        S Enc-  Total
ha      aIthout   wIth      Velue      Ca gor / ot          RentaI l     ree   Annuel
Prolecta/ projecta/ !noremntb1            Houseulyr Valu/om2  Rentael a ncr emntb/
la                  800       10.0       A         12         729         26      0.05
B         29      1,02          s6      0.
Ci         0      1,204          o      o.8a
60                            0.65
a/ FR1/2
b/ FRW lilon.  Reallzd over 8 yare.
ci FRW millIon.  Avortes bouse *1zes A - 24 .2; B-a8 *2 Ci-78  2
d/ Se* Table i for categorles.



148
Au= 12
ORGAUMTION CHARTS



MINISlRY OF PUBUC WORKS, ENERGY, AND WATER
Organlzatlon Chit
| MINISIE 
|GENÉ  RBAND |
DIRECTO,RTE            DIRECTORATE             DIREOTATE              DIRECTORATE
OF ENERGY               OF CML           PUBLIC BUILDING, URSAN         WATER
0F ~NE~<          ENGINEERN          PLANNING, AND HOUSING
DIRECTORATE            DIRETORATE              DIRECTORATE            DIRECTORATE
PLANNING AND           PLANNING AND              PUBC                 RURAL WATER                   '
PROGRAlMING            PROGRAMMINO              BUILDINGS                SUPPLY
DIRECTODETE                                    DIRECRATE              DIRECTORATE
PAGJEOT              DIRECTORTE                URBAN                PLANNINGAND
IMPLEMENTATIO            MAINTENANCE            PLANNING ANC           PROGRAMMING
NOUSING   J______
DIRECTORATE
DIRECTORATE            DIRECTCORATE           UREIAN WATER
LABORATORY            CARTOGRAPHY              SUPPLY AND
SANITATWNl
EWW



150
Communal AdministratIon
Organizaffion Choit
Commwlo
Counwlo
Sou  Wodd Be*: Ihe Rale of the Commune In Socbl£=%i>c Deveto:mrvt (No 6734. Odctber 1987. p9).
WoeId Bw*n 521
;



- 151 -
Coâlie Hypothécalré du Rwanda (CHR)
Organization Chart
Confi0m
Bccd cf
-~-_        _ _ _ ____ _   jlortea
Rarmng and
StDios p   wntdaulrotWul                                                 no
n~~~~~wm                                                      crmFaac
und~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  9ord Ho15o



- 152 -
Annex 13
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
Aide-Memoires
Preparation mission (May 1987)
Preparation mission (September-October 1987)
Appraisal mission (February-March 1988)
Preparation Reports
D. Achour, Rapport de Mission, 18 septembre - 2 octobre 1987.
ACT, Document de preparation de la Table Ronde des 2 et 3 mars 1988s
synthèse resumee. February 1988.
M. Balbo, Etude sur le renforce.ent des institutions urbaines au Rwanda,
1987.
D. Bourdon et ACT, Etude du renforcement des institutions urbaines; dossier
technique. January 1988.
G. Chambas, Rapport de mission sur les finances locales. proposition de
raforme dans le cadre du proiet de renforcement des structures urbaines.
April 1987.
A. Gayrard, Programme d'habitat, assistance au secteur de la construction:
rapport de mission. September 1987.
Ministry of Public Works and Energy and ACT, Etude de Stratafie Sectorielle
de l'Habitat Urbain. Auguet 1985. 2 summary reports and 8 technical
volumes.
Ministry of Public Works and Energy and ACT, Renforcement des Institutions
Urbaines, Préparation de Prolets. January 1988. 3 summary reports and 8
technical volumes.
Ministry of Public Works and Energy, StratéRies Sectorielles, Eau, Voies de
Communications, Energie. Urbanisme, Habitat, et Batiments Civils. April
1987.
J.B. Page, Restructuration des Quartiers Spontanés de KiRali: Etude de
Factibilité Technique des Variantes. January 1988.
Programme d'Assainissement Individuel, Programme PNUD-Banque Mondiale pour
la Décennie de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement, rapport de mission, December
1987.
Programme de Recasement dans le projet de restructuration des quartiers
spontanis de Kigali, July 1988.
D. Romann, Compte rendu de mission, 17 avril-i mai 1987.
J. Trouve and C. Bessat, Note de Réflexion sur les caractéristiques
respectives des propositions d'actions en faveur de l'artisanat urbain
prisentees par la Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique et la Banaue
Mondiale, January 1988.
J. Trouve and C. Bessat, L'Emploi au Rwanda - Analyse et propositions pour
l'action, SGS, October 1987.



- 153 -
Data and Workin Documant.
Detailed cost estimates
Job Descriptions of Technical Advisers
Le FAII - Fonds d'Appui aux Innovations Industrielles
FDC - Règlement intirieur du comiti de gestion
Job descriptions of technical advisers
Khiem Nguyen Huu, Etude sur l'EmPloi.  April 1987.
D. Niro (BCEON), Role des communes dans le diveloppementt situation
financière des communes et fiscalité locale. October 1986.
M. Nowak, Développement Communal au Rwanda. Caisse Centrale de Coopération
Economique, September 1985.
M. Nowak and J.M. Collombon, Centre d'APpui et de Services à l'Artisanat
et à la Micro-Industrie au Rwanda, Main Report and Annexes, November 1986.
M.-H. Salat-Desgranges, Enauete d'ivaluation des effets socio-iconomiaues
du projet d'appui au secteur non structuri de Kigali. 1987.
Pierre Sirven, La Sous-Urbanisation et les Villes du Rwanda et du Burundi,
1984.
Statut giniral des agents de l'Etat, Law of March 19, 1974.
M. Voyer, Rapport technique sur les premières et deuxième phases, Appui au
secteur non structure. 1986.
M. Voyer and C. Maldonado. Proiet d'appui au secteur non strnctura de
KiRali, June 1986.



RWANDA
URBAN INSTITUTIONS SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(
PROJET DE RENFORCEMENT DES INSTITUTIONS URBAINES>                                                             UGANDA                                                         curb
RESFONSI&TIES FOR USERA SRRVICES               càaaivO OP Town. 
NESPON$AMUES DES SERVICES URRAIN&              CAT~EO   vu CENMI                           (
1.URMN PI.ANNINQ /1SM DEVELPMENT PLANS           i 1         
IIEJAPISMEI/ CROQUI DIRECERmS
2. LANO REOISTEATIO NDS TENUINE                   i    1    2   2                                                                                                                         AN       A     I
EEG UIARSATTON ET CONS! WAlNm FONCIERE                                                                                                                                             TANZANIA
3. LAND TAXATION /COMMUNAL REVENUES               I    I    2   NP
TAXOE FONCIE R!IFSCRUTE COMMUNALE
A. NiNANOAL MANAGEM!NT1                                                    Z I
GESTION PINANCIERE COMMUNALE
5. 505UD WASTE COLLECTION                         2     3    4 N
ENLIVEMENT ORDURES MENAGERES
6. SURETr MAINTENANCE                             3 N         PN
ENINTIN VOIRE
SERVICES TO BE INTROOUCED AS OF TEAR INDICATED
SEVCS  NT#ODIIRE CANS LSANNEE INDIUE!
NP. NONf PREV                                                                                                         ub 
___MAN ROSO                                                                                                                                                                                   (
ROUTEsFRNCIPAIES                                                                                                                    UAE     
COURS DEAU                                                     Yi                                                                          MUlPA                                  .1
COMMUNEEOIIMDARIES
ISLES DE COMMUNEt
PREFECIIURE EOINDARIES
I/AR ES DE PEEFECTURE 
INTERNATIONAL EOUJNDARES               /KEKVI             f
FRONTERES INTERNA TIONALES
,>  (''4  (~    ~      1    DUStRO       ~         TAA O                                                      V'm.          Eovz
2                                                       kP,15u,JRWAMAGANA (IV
&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f/t'.~~~~~~~~~~~~N
/  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NUKONV
* ~~42  RAU  O   I       4'                                                          N      ~ ~ ~           ~~>          t4f                 r
j 'esc
KObO~~~R     ..k,A    r          ,,; ~~~~- APAMA.                                                                             'n   K .r.ut(                1      4
N            ~~~~SONALIA                          t     c :>                                                                 11'if
ZTRf    ANZAF/IA                                                                                           fIIOEEO                                                  .       .      .   ~        ~   ~
UMO  int,,on                     s,""  -                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLS,-------
5fl~~~~~~~~  Nf                               O~~~~~~~~  0  0         25    0        40        50 G  0    R
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~('MLS 
SUNE 1989



IBRD 20887
RWANDA
KIGALI: HOUSING PROGRAMS
KIGALI: PROGRAMMES D'HABITAT    To Byumbo
Vers 8yumba
UPGRADING NE:n=|I 0$ HtA-0)BORH t I
MAJULE LACCUEit GACULIRO                                         j Giso |          , )                                                                                  -1
MAIN ROAOS
ROUrES PRINCIPALES
ROUTES SECONDAIRES
TOWN CEN MER
CENTRE S%TRUCURÉ
COMMERCIAIINDUSTRIAL AREAS                                                                                                       
6',Z RAAZONES DCM                                                                                                                1TM      *"                           S
RESIDENTIAI AREAS:
ZONES D HA\ITAT.                 To  Tutot
HIGH.OENSIIY SETTLEMENTS       Ye.ara LTY                                                  ~~T   h~g
ZONES DENSES                                                                                                                                                                                KetiGbutgo
ME- UM-OENSITY SETTLEMENTS
ZONES MOYENNEMENT DEtES
-  555 ELEVAtION MN EATTERS                                                                                                          S
ELE_VAION EN METE I
SrREAMU
COURS DEAU
__ NTERNATTONAI BOUNOARIES
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
UGANDA
ZAIRE                        .
RWAND
RwA:A  )                                                                                 VO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TS Nyonotu
Ki-~~~~~~~--
ï!ANZANIAR                                                                                                                                                      f5
MAY 1988



IBRD 2(
PlACE DR LUNDi                                                                                                                             SAliE            t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JGANDA
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AED VNITE                                                                                                                                                                                                       ZAIRE! 
NYARUGENGE PLATEAU                                                                                                                                                                     .I / 
PLATEAU DE NYARUGENGE                                                                                   /
%  <  9q  KIGALI: NEIGHBORHOOD  UPGODING \ A / -A N 1L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KGA
M-rci Cenfrl                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JAZ
BURUNDI(
MUHIMA                                            ANEIA0                 Pt'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  s,                                .4         4~~~~~~~~~~~~y A
\ M ^9., KXAV KI~~~GALI: RESTRUCTURATION DES QUARTIERS SPONTANES \/X\f
fl Ibrehd {  b-  S,>-t-                                                   ~~~ROADS, DRAINAGE AND WATER SUPPLY                                                                                              `\\\
\ .+ ç f ~~~~~~~~~~VOIRIE, ASSAINISSEMENT EAUX PLUVIALES, \\\j\\\\
1 l t X / ~~~~~~~~~ET ADDUCTION D'EAU A AMELIORER    t
k w sirJghflerho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mufl *_-OUNDARY OF UPGRA.DING                                                    ARADSAINAGE.l,Ffr    
S    /AE»noir  >«F-X«_                                             V~~~~~~~~~~~   ~     ~~~~~~~MITED X  ON   fSRCTURER           A~SSAINT5MN FAUX FtVVIAUYj                                  }                \     \
G EX SURFAC5ED5AN   REVAV5                               =      STEPPED DRAINAGE CANAL             ;                                    v 
-    1IN UCNWURFAjES NON ÊVTS                                      UINED DR INAGE CANAI                                  
C* HSEMINS I FvEO Nfias ÊTANTS                                     R............. UE EN ESCALIER
\                                                        -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATERCOURSE                      Q      ouTF
\                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COURS D'EAU NATVREI                    OUVRAGE DE RlEJET
\ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTINGi SaTEP5PrEADr DRAIoNAGE CNL                                          FRONG
KIGALI                         cUGl  ALAND RE#ERVE FOR RE#ETTUEMENT
- TOsEz ffsE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CT                             ff~~~RSERIVE FONOÈ7RE POUR ffCASEMENT                        WATER SUPPLY:
_  swn *oses                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADMUCTION D EA. À AUEIIORER
GiS-                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS:                                W»TER N TWORK
PARMI~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VIMERrI    A
. ~~~~~~>  >  «                                                   _     uAIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  ROADS                         '      STANDPIPES
MorircI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vr MAR                                                                                        ONEFNAN
; #CONDAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                               y ROAD5                                               R< EE HYDRANTS rw
SI ghferhocse                                          UU  ACUN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vtESARS 0FI                                   POTEAUINNCANEA
t                                                      ETISTINO SERFACRD ROADS                               CVIAVZs' STEPPED DRAINAGER IAANAROAD
ROUTES TEXITANTSREVEIE                                      CNERASCADE      UDAIS                            00        fl
ROUTES ESTS TANTES NON REVETUES                CAFRNIVEAU MNRAÇONN  ES
........  PEDESTREAN PATHS                                             STEPPSESPESSASEWA4
CHEMINS PFETONNIERs EESTNT                                   R
WATERCOURSE    C)     OSTPALL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jui



LARD 20951
NAUONALE                                                     i                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGANDA
_--_,_LAC~~~~nAE DE 'UruE me                                                                                                                                                                                    ZAIRE    iOAD  
PLACE DL LUNSTE              NYARUGENGE PLATEAU
PL4TEAU DE NYARUGENGE
' , :    r                                                                                                                                =                                                                           S  /              RWANDA                 !
~~~~ ~~~M-ehf cAo.,                                 Zoo ArNonI-9
MUHIMA
g i| </ °° ~~~~~~KIGALI: NEIGHBORHOOD UPGRADING t" \
E IM^9O-o                                                   -             ^£ J KllARAo° : W «/~ KIGALI: RESTRUCTURATION DES QUARTIERS SPONTANES   ' D
fl X ore 70 ~~~~~~~ROADS, ELECTRICITY AND SOLID WASTE COLLECTION s`     
pwo /- t ~~~~~~~VOIRIE, ELECTRICITIEIECLAIRAGE, ET COLLECTE DES DECHETS A AMELIORER  \ \ 
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 11                                             ZON /o°°Cr /EM}                                                                           L"  s                     o               \
*    *E0  -ibollois                KIES   AGARUNDAA&RtaOzoUNsA2fST2UCrUFM                                                                               ÉLfLERICITIE/EQAIMEOF               F     n    if            \
EROUES EXISTANTES REVETUES                                    ÉCimRAGE PUBUC
EXISTING UNSUSRFACED EOADS                             -      OW-VOLTAGE NETWORK                                     
ROUTES EXISTANTES NON RÊvETUES                               DISIRIRUISON ELECIRIQUE (81)                O N °   o o  °° 0
.....EXISTING, FE5IESTEIAN PIEIS                                     ME IUJM-VOLTAGE NETWORKL 
CHEMINS Pl TONNIERS EXISTANTS                                 AUMENTATION TM
-    WATERCOURS                                                TA T2ANSFORMER 160 uVA                       G
COURS D EAU NATUREI                                           TRAMSFORMATEUR la kVA                   O N o  o  e
-    EXISTING STEPPED DRAINAGE CANAIS
KIGALI                                                    CASCADES EXISTANTES ALÇONNffS                               SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
KIGALI                          A    N NGV tsA                                                 ,        LAND RESERVE FOR RRESEITLEMENT                              COLLEcrE DES DECHEbS A AMEUEORER
N07  MSNeeLrfR                                                      RESERVE FONCERE POUR RECASEMENT                              LPUBLIC COLLECTION POINTS
_       MONO pGAG                                                                                                                         pOINTS DE DEPdT SERVICES PUBUCS
ROADS.                                                 S      RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION POINTS
NoM                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VOIRIE                              POINTS DE D PT PARTICULIERS
MAIN ROADS
VOIE PRIMAIRE                                     -  -   INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIES
1  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               S~~~~~~~~ECONSA0E ROANS                                    FRONTIERES INTERNRATONASES
-                e'K _ _                                                            SVOIE SECONDAIRE
r__TI RY ROADS
1 .                                                                                                   L'S VOIE TERTIAIRE O 2! sLI aLI ............................ET* 
PEDESTRIAN PATINS                                                                                                                                        --49
CHEMINS pIETONNIERS                                                                                          METE-S
JLUNE 19Oi



IBRC
GACULIRO: SERVICED PLOTS
RWANDA                                                   GACULIRO: MAILLE D'ACCUEIL
KIGALI: SERVICED PLOTS                                                                            U ER
To B ANbAz                                             KIGALI: MAILLE D'ACCUEIL                                                                           VOIE NON REVETUE
Ve-  y-mbo                                                                                                                                                SURFACED ROAD
VOIE REVETUE
M _      UNLIrED DRAINAGE CANAL                                                                           i
VOSE NON REVEFU
LINED DRAINAGE CANAL
CANIVEAU MA,ONNt
WATER MAlIN
/  |GoCtAîro                        7                                                                      CANAUSArSON DEAUI
l   Gisotxi                                                                                                                            8 ;  °  ÔORNE FONtAINE
C  ULVERT
ROUNDARY OF SERVICED PLOTS
Kac5qru,ç,,,n,W8 VeLIMITESytLf  MAILU                                                                                   E DACCUESIL GACULI
_SA re                                    4S'.~s=..z..z ,,                                                                                                ._ MATOWN CET,
-               ~~~~~TA Kibsn9                                       M.AACHE
t UGANDA / EE~~~~~~Ves SIDETALRAS.                                                                                                                                                                                 2G
3    OPEN SPACE
A4rI@p%R /ZONE NON CONSTRUCTIBLE
MAIN ROADS
ROUTES PRNCIPALES
-     SECONDARS ROAUS
ROUKTE  SECONDALRES
?Soi Nyoni  tGACULIRO SERVICED PLOTS
Vers jyRASON              L      MAILLE D.AccuDU. GACULIRO
COMMAERCLALJINDASTRAlE. AREAS
!G     A ,     jTKRESIOENTIAL AREAST
ZAIRE                                                                           ZONES S HABfUATI
HIGH-DENSITY SETTIEMENTS
ZONES "ENSE
5~,A MESIUM-DENSITS SETEMENT
ZONES MOYENNEMENT DENSES
RWANDA                                                E -STREAMA
COURS D'EAU
O lIGUA                           -   -  ~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAFOES
~~~ ,*.U                                F~~~~~~~~~~RONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
METERS
r- -TNAI                                                                    KILOMETERS
BURUNDII



RWANDA                                                                                                       iATYAZO: SERVIC )  OTS
BUTARE: SERVICED PLOTS                                 TOGGiC9oFo                                                           MATYAZO: MAILLE KACCUEIL
eUTARE: MAILLE D'ACCUEIL     
-     MAIN ROADS                                U.N y - - -u.
ROUTES PRINCIPALES                                     -            ,.\
$ECONDARY ROADI 
ROUTES SECONDAIRES                 J /
SERViCE PLOTS                                         T  .I .      ao
CI  MALRIE CDEACCUEIL
TOWN CENTER
cENTRE STRUCTURÉ
RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
ZONES DOHABITAT.
MDM-E SITYIÈTLEMENTS
LIII  ZONES MOYENNEMENT DENSES
:i.-    LOW-DENSITV SETTLEMENTS
ZONES PEU DENSES
RIVER
FLEUVE
-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FEONtIREPS INTERNATIONALES
UNSURFACRD ROAD
VOIE NON REVETUE
UGANDA       SrU tjo  bro                                                                                               SLIREACED ROAD
CL  To  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEREVE7IJR
ZAIRE                                                          B    mbu                                                                    UNLINEO DRAINAGE CANAL
L.,--%   _,E           t.                                                                                                    FOSSÉ NON REVETU
LINED DRAINAGE CA,NAL
CANIVEAU MAÇONNE
fI   {                                    \                                                                                        .  ,   WATER MAIN
RWANDA                                                                                                                  CANAUSATION D'EAU
|o   K-            I IA                                                                                                             STANDPIPE
LoI. E.co   * KIGAU                                                                                                            BORNE FONTAINE
> g  )                                                            I )                                                                   fl1  a  n   CULVERT
KILOMETERS                                             L   DALOT
W   \  "--  >   ,.)                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIMInES MAILLED'ACCUEIL
E* uttore- e           /TANZANIA
BURUNDI                                  t           0        .       a
\ï    Ç %.C,t,f>~,,_.«__ 



