Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2041 RW
         (Urban Institutions Sectoral Development Project)
                              between
                         RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 13, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2041 RW
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  September   13,   1989,  between  RWANDESE
REPUBLIC   (the   "Borrower")    and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
May 17, 1989 from the  Borrower  describing a program of policies,
goals  and  actions  designed  to  achieve  an  adjustment  of the
Borrower's  urban  sector   (the   "Program")  and  declaring  the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
     (B)  the Borrower, having  committed  itself to the execution
of the Program and, as  part  of the Program, having undertaken to
carry out the Project described  in  Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association  to  assist  in the financing of the
Project;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Capital Development Fund ("UNCDF") a  grant (the "UNCDF Grant") in
an aggregate amount of  two  million nine hundred thousand Dollars
Page  2
($2,900,000) to assist in  financing  part  of  the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth  in  an agreement (the "UNCDF Grant
Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and UNCDF; and
     (D)  the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
donors to assist in financing the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BNR" means Banque  Nationale  du Rwanda, the Borrower's
central bank;
     (b)  "BP" means Banques  Populaires, the cooperatives savings
institutions established in the Borrower's territory;
     (c)  "CHR"  means  Caisse  Hypothecaire  du  Rwanda,  a mixed
economy company for  financing  and  promotion  of  housing in the
Borrower's territory;
     (d)  "CID" means  Credit  Intercommunal  de  Developpement, a
Borrower's financial  public  entity  responsible  for  support of
local governments;
     (e)  "ELECTROGAZ" means  Etablissement  Public de Production,
de Transport et de  Distribution  d'Eau,  d'Electricite et de Gaz,
the Borrower's water and electricity authority;
     (f)  "Franc Rwandais"  and  "FRW"  mean  the  currency of the
Borrower;
     (g)  "MINITRAPE"  means  Ministere  des  Travaux  Publics, de
l'Energie et de l'Eau,  the  Borrower's  Ministry of Public Works,
Energy and Water;
     (h)  "Project  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to exchanges of letters dated June 21, 1986 and July 30, 1986, and
January 9, 1988 and March  9,  1988,  between the Borrower and the
Association;
     (j)  "SCP" means  Structure  de  Coordination des Programmes,
the  program  coordination  unit  established  in  the Directorate
General  of  Public  Buildings,  Urban  Planning  and  Housing  of
MINITRAPE;
     (k)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means  any of the agreements
to be entered into pursuant to  Sections  3.01 (b) and (d) of this
Page  3
Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time; and
     (m)  "Urban  Center"  means  any   of  the  Borrower's  local
governments which  are  partly  or  wholly  urban  and  are  to be
assisted under the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to twenty-four  million  eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 24,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in BNR on terms and
conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1996
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date  of  this Agreement (the "Accrual Date")
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June  30  immediately preceding the Accrual Date and
at such other rates as  may  be  set  from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  June  1  and December 1
commencing  December  1,  1999  and  ending  June  1,  2029.  Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on June 1,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 Dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
SCP, CHR and  the  Urban  Centers  and  under  the overall respon-
sibility of MINITRAPE  with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in
conformity with  appropriate  administrative,  financial and urban
management practices, and shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend  to  CID under subsidiary loan
agreements  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and CID
including terms and conditions  which  shall have been approved by
the Association: (i) the proceeds  of  the Credit allocated to and
withdrawn under Category (2) (b)  in  the  table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 of this Agreement  at  an  annual interest rate of five
percent (5%), with a  repayment  period  of  seven (7) years and a
grace period of two (2) years; and (ii) the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to and withdrawn under Category  (1) (b) in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to  this Agreement at an annual interest
rate of five percent  (5%),  with  a  repayment period of eighteen
(18) years and a grace period of three (3) years.
     (c)  The Borrower shall cause  CID  to onlend the proceeds of
the Credit received  under  paragraph  (b)  of this Section, after
deducting an amount which  shall  not  exceed in the aggregate the
Page  5
equivalent of $700,000 to cover  its operating costs, to the Urban
Centers at an annual interest  rate  of  six percent (6%) and with
the same repayment and grace periods indicated in paragraph (b) of
this Section.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  relend  the  proceeds  of the Credit
allocated to and withdrawn under Category  (1) (c) in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to  this Agreement to ELECTROGAZ under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and ELECTROGAZ, under terms  and  conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association which shall include an annual interest
rate of six  percent  (6%),  a  repayment  period of eighteen (18)
years and a grace period of three (3) years.
     (e)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary Loan  Agreements  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit  and,  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any  of  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  or any provision
thereof.
     Section 3.02. (a)  Without  limitation  upon Section 3.01 (a)
with regard to the provisions of funds, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  open, and  thereafter  maintain,  in the Borrower's
               currency and  in  the  name  of  MINITRAPE  - Urban
               Institutions Development Project, an account in BNR
               on  terms  and   conditions   satisfactory  to  the
               Association;
         (ii)  deposit into such Project Account an initial amount
               of FRW 40,000,000; and
        (iii)  thereafter deposit  into  the  Project Account, not
               later than  March  31,  June  30,  September 30 and
               December 31 of each year during Project implementa-
               tion, a  sum  necessary  to  replenish  the Project
               Account   up    to    the    original   amount   of
               FRW 40,000,000.
     (b)  Amounts deposited into  the  Project Account pursuant to
subparagraphs (ii) and  (iii)  above  shall  be  used only to make
payments to meet local expenditures made  or to be made in respect
of the reasonable cost of  goods  and services for the Project and
not eligible for financing under the Credit.
     Section 3.03. Without limitation  upon  Section 3.01 (a) with
regard to the provisions of  services, the Borrower shall transfer
staff in sufficient number,  qualification and experience from the
central administration  to  the  Urban  Centers  to  carry out the
Project.
     Section 3.04. In  order  to  supervise  the  execution of the
Project, the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  not  later  than February 28,
May 31, August 31 and  November  30 of each year before completion
of the  Project,  furnish  to  the  Association quarterly progress
reports; and (b) not later  than  November  30 of each year before
completion  of  the  Project,   submit   to  the  Association  the
Borrower's three-year rolling  Program  of  Investments and Public
Expenditures for  the  urban  sector,  with  terms  and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
     Section  3.05.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
December 31, 1989, cause CHR to establish a monitoring unit within
its Directorate of Housing Development to supervise implementation
of the housing programs  referred  to  in  Part  B of the Project;
(b) not later than  March  31,  1990,  make agreements, with terms
and conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Association,  with training
institutions and with ELECTROGAZ, for the training of managers and
staff of the urban development  divisions, CID, CHR, the financial
and the land registries  divisions  of  the Urban Centers; (c) not
Page  6
later than December 31, 1990,  cause  CHR to implement a policy of
control of  operating  expenses  satisfactory  to the Association;
(d) not later than December  31,  1990,  appoint the chiefs of the
Financial Departments  for  the  towns  of  Ruhengeri and Gisenyi;
(e) not later than  December  31,  1990,  establish  in due form a
Housing Fund with  provisions  and operating policies satisfactory
to the Association.
     Section  3.06.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal year, audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
Page  7
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower  shall  cause CHR, CID and the
Urban  Centers  to  maintain  records  and  accounts  adequate  to
reflect,  in  accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices,  the
operations and  financial  condition  of  CHR,  CID  and the Urban
Centers.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause  CHR, CID and the Urban Centers
to:
          (i)  have   their   records,   accounts   and  financial
               statements (balance  sheets,  statements  of income
               and  expenses  and  related  statements)  for  each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               their financial  statements  for  such  year  as so
               audited; and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning   such   records,   accounts,  financial
               statements and the audit thereof as the Association
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the  Borrower  shall  cause  CHR,  CID  and the Urban
Centers to:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until one  year  after  the Association has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last disbursement from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable  that the Program, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.
Page  8
     (b)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SCP, CHR, ELECTROGAZ or  CID  or for the suspension of the
operations of any of them.
     (c)  Any of CID or  ELECTROGAZ  shall  have failed to perform
any of their obligations under any Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (d)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                     Borrower for  the  financing  of  the Project
                     shall have been  suspended, cancelled or ter-
                     minated, in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                     terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
                (B)  any such loan shall  have become due and pay-
                     able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on  terms and conditions consis-
               tent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any events specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
     (b)  any events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  any  events  specified  in  paragraph  (d)  (i)  (B)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has  appointed  the  following higher level
staff to SCP: (i) a  Director;  (ii) a Technical Officer; (iii) an
Administrative and Financial Officer; and (iv) a Program Officer;
     (b)  the  Borrower  has  enacted  legislation  or regulation,
satisfactory to the  Association,  governing the following subject
matters:   (i)    building    and    subdivision   authorizations;
(ii) expropriation indemnity;  (iii)  communal  land registry; and
(iv) land survey.
     (c)  the   Subsidiary   Loan   Agreements   referred   to  in
Section 3.01 (b) of this  Agreement have been entered into between
the Borrower and CID;
     (d)  the   Subsidiary   Loan   Agreement   referred   to   in
Section 3.01 (d) of this  Agreement  has been entered into between
the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ;
Page  9
     (e)  Financial Departments have been  established in due form
in Butare, Ruhengeri and Gisenyi;
     (f)  appropriate legislation organizing the prefecture of the
city of Kigali has been enacted;
     (g)  CID  has  been   established   and   a  Fund  for  Urban
Development has been established within CID and is satisfactory to
the Association; and
     (h)  the  Borrower  has   opened   the  Project  Account  and
deposited the initial amount  referred  to in Section 3.02 (a)(ii)
of this Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
     (a)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  referred  to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement have been duly entered into by,
and are legally binding upon,  the  Borrower and CID in accordance
with their terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  referred  to  in
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement  has been duly entered into by,
and is  legally  binding  upon,  the  Borrower  and  ELECTROGAZ in
accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances
          B.P. 158
          Kigali
          Rwandese Republic
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINIFIN-RWANDA                  287 MINFIN
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
Page  10
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                          By /s/ Aloys Uwimana
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                                     80%
     (a)  financed
          directly
          by Borrower:
          (i)   for              2,710,000
                street
                improve-
                ment and
                sanita-
                tion in
                Kigali
         (ii)   for other        1,860,000
                purposes
                in Kigali
        (iii)   for other          540,000
                purposes
                in other
                Urban
                Centers
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
     (b)  financed
          through CID:
          (i)   in Kigali        3,260,000
Page  11
         (ii)   in other           390,000
                Urban
                Centers
     (c)  financed                 930,000
          through
          ELECTROGAZ
(2)  Equipment, vehicles                         100% of foreign
     and furniture:                              expenditures and
                                                 50% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  financed
          directly by
          Borrower:
          (i)   in Kigali          160,000
         (ii)   in other            80,000
                Urban
                Centers
     (b)  financed
          through CID:
          (i)   in Kigali        1,550,000
         (ii)   in other           700,000
                Urban
                Centers
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  Operating costs:                            95% of expen-
                                                 ditures paid
                                                 through
                                                 December 31,
                                                 1991; 50% of
                                                 expenditures
                                                 paid from
                                                 January 1 to
                                                 December 31,
                                                 1992; 25% of
                                                 expenditures
                                                 paid from
                                                 January 1 to
                                                 December 31,
                                                 1993
     (a)  under                    160,000
          Part B.2
          of the
          Project
     (b)  under                    470,000
          Part C.2
          of the
          Project
     (c)  other                  3,410,000
(4)  Artisans credits              310,000      65%
                            Amount of the
Page  12
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Training:                                   100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 50% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  BP                       310,000
     (b)  artisans                 310,000
     (c)  other                  2,790,000
(6)  Consultants'                                100% of foreign
     services and                                expenditures and
     studies:                                    50% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  BP                        80,000
     (b)  other                    620,000
(7)  Refunding of                  400,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                 3,760,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                  24,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term  "operating  costs"  means  the  cost of office
supplies,  building   and   equipment   maintenance  and  vehicles
operating costs but  does  not  include  any  salary,  per diem or
transportation allowance.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made  in  respect  of  payments made for expendi-
tures:
     (a)  prior to the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  under Category  1  of  paragraph  1  above  until: (i) a
Contract Program satisfactory to  the Association has been entered
into between the Borrower  and  CHR  for  Part B.2 of the Project;
(ii) a management  agreement  for  housing  programs in Kigali has
been entered into between the prefecture of the city of Kigali and
CHR; (iii) a management agreement  for housing programs for Butare
has been entered into between the  urban commune of Ngoma and CHR;
(iv) the  site  plans,  expropriations  and  establishment of cost
recovery surcharges for  Part  B.4  (b)  of  the Project have been
approved; and (v)  the  Borrower  has  put  in  place a mechanism,
satisfactory to the Association, for the recovery of costs;
     (c)  under Category (1) (a)(i) of paragraph 1 above until CHR
has established a guarantee fund under Part B.2 (c) of the Project
for loans made by BP for latrine construction and improvement;
Page  13
     (d)  under Category (3) (a)  of  paragraph  1 above until CHR
has employed the following  staff  for  its Monitoring Unit: (i) a
municipal  engineer;  (ii)   a   sanitary   engineer;  (iii)  four
technicians; (iv)  an  engineer  or  architect/housing  expert for
review of applications;  and  (v)  two  technicians  for review of
applications;
     (e)  under Category (3)  (b)  of  paragraph  1 above until an
agreement satisfactory to  the  Association for the implementation
of construction  sector  assistance  has  been  entered into among
MINITRAPE and an entity or entities for the execution of Part C. 2
of the Project;
     (f)  under Categories (5)  (a)  and  (6)  (a)  of paragraph 1
above until BP have submitted the  plan  under Part A.3 (a) of the
Project satisfactory to the Association; and
     (g)  under Category (5)  (b)  of  paragraph  1 above until an
agreement for the  implementation  of artisans assistance programs
has been  entered  into  between  MINITRAPE,  the  concerned Urban
Centers and an entity or entities for the execution of Part C.1 of
the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are:
          (i)  to  strengthen  national   and  local  institutions
               responsible for the management of urban growth;
         (ii)  to  reduce  budget  subsidies  to  urban  areas  by
               placing the provision of  urban services on a self-
               financing basis;
        (iii)  to achieve a more  rational  use  of urban land and
               limit encroachment on agricultural holdings;
         (iv)  to help provide term financing for construction and
               improvement of housing  and related services, among
               others street improvements and sanitation;
          (v)  to  improve   the   resource   base  and  financial
               management of Urban Centers  and support the reform
               of the Communal Development Fund; and
         (vi)  to enhance the capacity  of artisans, especially in
               the  building  trades,  to  respond  effectively to
               market demands  in  the  production  of housing and
               urban services.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Resource Mobilization
1.   Strengthening of  tax  administration  and financial planning
including: (a)  establishment  of  a  Financial Affairs Department
in the prefecture  of  the  city  of  Kigali; (b) establishment of
Financial Departments in  the  Urban  Centers of Butare, Ruhengeri
and Gisenyi; (c) improvement  of financial planning and management
in Cyangugu, Rwamagana, Ruhango  and Mukamira; and (d) improvement
of the financial management and establishment of a property tax in
the Urban Centers.
2.   Strengthening of CID by: (a) creation of an Urban Development
Fund to administer loans  to  Urban Centers; and (b) strengthening
of CID's capability in  the  evaluation of financial proposals and
in the processing of loan applications from Urban Centers.
Page  14
3.   Housing finance through:  (a)  preparation and implementation
by BP of a program  to  reach low-income families; (b) training of
BP staff in  mortgage  financing;  and  (c)  evaluation  of the BP
program and possible extension to other savings institutions.
Part B:   Urban Management
1.   Strengthening  of  urban  development  institutions  through:
(a)  establishment  of   Urban   Development  Departments  in  the
prefecture of the city of Kigali  and the Urban Centers of Butare,
Ruhengeri and Gisenyi; and  (b)  enhanced responsibility for urban
planning and urban management  of  Housing and Urban Inspectors in
the Urban Centers of Cyangugu, Rwamagana, Ruhango and Mukamira.
2.   Rehabilitation of CHR by:  (a) confinement of its activities,
for  a  five-year  period,   to   land  development  and  mortgage
financing; (b) implementation  of  housing  programs  on behalf of
Urban Centers; and  (c)  participation  in  the establishment of a
secondary  mortgage  market,  of  a  guarantee  fund,  of mortgage
insurance facilities  and  the  sale  of  plots  subdivided by the
Borrower's ministry at the time  responsible for housing and urban
development.
3.   Improvements  in  the  security  of  urban  land  tenure  by:
(a)  implementation  of  an  ad   hoc  land  tenure  program;  and
(b) provision of seminars and training courses.
4.   Housing  through:  (a)   granting   of  credits  for  housing
construction and improvement;  (b)  upgrading of basic infrastruc-
ture and on-site sanitation  in  five neighborhoods of Kigali; and
(c) development of serviced plots in Gaculiro (Kigali) and Matyazo
(Butare).
Part C:   Assistance to Artisans and the Construction Sector
1.   Assistance to  artisans  through:  (a)  development of sites,
including the granting of credit, in Kigali and Butare; (b) estab-
lishment and  management  of  stocks  of  materials; (c) technical
training and marketing assistance; and (d) monitoring and carrying
out of  studies  on  the  artisans'  economic  environment and the
support offered them.
2.   Assistance to the construction  sector through: (a) technical
training and  marketing  assistance  to  small-scale  producers of
bricks and roofing tiles; (b) support for improvement of sawn wood
products; (c) establishment of wood distribution centers; (d) con-
struction of washing stations  and other community facilities; and
(e) studies on imported building materials and construction costs,
and on ways to reduce them.
Part D:   Program Management
     Strengthening of program  management  through: (a) establish-
ment of a  coordination  unit  within  the  General Directorate of
Housing, Urban  Planning  and  Public  Buildings  of MINITRAPE for
project  activities;  (b)   assistance   to   the  programming  of
investments and expenditures in the urban sector; (c) conduct of a
study on the policies to  reduce  the subsidies in civil servants'
housing; (d) financing of the audit of accounts of the Project and
of implementing agencies; and (e)  provision for future studies on
the Borrower's urban sector.
Part E:   Resettlement
     Housing construction and compensation  for about 130 families
to be relocated in order to  improve drainage and street access in
the neighborhoods of Kigali to  be  upgraded under Part B.4 of the
Project to permit improvement of streets and sanitation.
                           *   *   *   *
Page  15
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts  shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $100,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territory may be  granted  a  margin  of  preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the proceduresdescribed in Part 
A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for water,  electricity and public lighting under
Part B.4 of the Project  may  be procured under force accounts, in
accordance with paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines, to ELECTROGAZ.
2.   Civil works under Part B.4  (c)  of the Project and for Urban
Development Division's buildings under Part B.1 of the Project may
be procured under contracts  awarded  on  the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Items which cannot be grouped or groups of items estimated to
cost less than the equivalent  of  $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of $750,000, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of  $250,000  or  more and to each contract
for  equipment,  vehicles  and  furniture  estimated  to  cost the
equivalent  of  $75,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
Page  16
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (1) to
(6) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Page  17
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and  other  evidence  as  the  Association shall reason-
ably request, showing  that  such  payment  was  made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions,  shall be equal to
               the  equivalent  of   twice   the   amount  of  the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Associa-
tion  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  No  further deposit by the Associa-
tion into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
Page  18
