Documentof          r
The World Bank               RETURN TO
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             7¢   IT7>
* - -         r -1;_ C  
Report No. P-2228-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
February 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Effective February 16, 1973
Rs 9.90         = US$1.00
Rs 1.00         = US$0.1
Rs 1.0 million  = US$101,010
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
IDBF   - Indus Basin Development Fund
TDF    - Tarbela Development Fund
WAPDA  - Water and Power Development Authority
TJV    - Tarbela Joint Venture
ADB    - Asian Development Bank
MAF    - Million Acre Feet
KV     - Kilo Volt
MW     - Mega Watt
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
Project and Credit Summary
Borrower:             Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:               US$35 million.
Terms:                Standard.
Project Description:  The credit will help finance repairs and addi-
tional works required for the Tarbela Dan Project,
vhich comprises the construction of a major dam
across the River Indus and associated facilities
for the supply of irrigation water and electric
power. The Tarbela Reservoir will have a gross
storage capacity of about 11.1 million acre feet
(MAF) of water available for irrigation during the
winter season and for power generation (2,100 MW
when all 12 units are installed). There is a risk
that the dam will experience further technical
problems. Also, realization of the full benefits
of the additional irrigation water will depend
on timely complementary investments and programs.
Estimated Costs:                           Foreign    Local
Currency   Currency    Total
(US$        (US$      (US$
Million)   Million)   Million)
Cost of Tarbela
Project              523        637       1,160
Repairs                 27         24          51
Additional Works        44         25          69
Further Modifications
to Stilling Basins    34         29          63
Remedial Works to
Spillways             83         47         130
Interest paid on
Special Plant
Advance               -7         -           -7
Change in cost of
the Project as a
result of exchange
rates fluctuations    12       -204        -192
Total           716        558 /a    1.274
/a   Provided and to be provided by the Government
of R'kast a>
| This document has arestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Foreign Currency
Resources Available:   US$572 million
Estimated Shortfall:   US$150 million
Financing Plan:        IDA                           US$ 35.0 million
Other Contributors               115.0    "
US$150.0 million
Estimated Dis-
bursements:            The Administrator of the Tarbela Fund will make
calls for disbursements as needed taking into
account other resources available.
Rate of Return:         10%
Maps:                  IBRD 13402 and IBRD 13403



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN FOR THE TARBELA DAM PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$35
million on standard IDA terms to help finance repairs and additional works
required for the Tarbela Dam Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:   Current Developments
and Issues" (No. 1423-PAK, dated March 15, 1977) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 21, 1977 and an updating Memorandum (No.
1792-PAK, dated October 31, 1977) was distributed on November 3, 1977.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        The economic development of Pakistan since 1970 compares some-
what unfavorably with the record of rapid growth of output and exports of the
1960's. Starting with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh,
there followed a series of poor monsoons and floods, and consequently poor
harvests. Added to this were the twin effects of deteriorating terms of
trade and world recession. The magnitude of the problem was intensified by
the loss of momentum of the "green revolution" which had been one of the
mainstays of the favorable economic period of the late 1960's. In addition,
industrial development was discouraged by changed attitudes toward the pri-
vate sector and a series of nationalizations, beginning with the nationali-
zation of a large part of private industry in 1972. As a result, the basic
productive sectors have had an average growth of about 2% per year since
1970, although total GDP has grown by about 3% per annum because of the rapid
expansion of construction, government and other service industries.
4.        Performance in FY77 continued to be disappointing.   While record
crops of wheat, rice and sugar cane were realized in FY77, the cotton crop
was damaged by unusually heavy rains and severe flooding in August, 1976. In
addition, the political disturbances in April and May 1977 resulted in the
closing of factories and the loss of about two months of production. Overall,
preliminary indications are that there was little or no real growth of output
in FY77, and a substantial increase occurred in the budget deficit and the
balance of payments deficit; a substantial drawdown in reserves was necessary.
While the inflation rate was officially 9% during the year, the true amount
of inflation may have been greater.
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the,same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report on the Hill Farming Technical Development Project
(No. P-2139-PAK).



- 2 -
5.        The stagnation of agricultural production during the 1970's has
been the result of many factors, including unfavorable growing conditions,
a slower rate of adoption of high-yielding varieties and adverse pricing
policies. Considerable output increases are possible in the medium term from
the further extensicn of the "green revolution" technology, specifically
through increased use of fertilizer and pesticides, improved seeds and further
development of the groundwater potential. Sustainable growth in the longer
term will require more fundamental change in on-farm practices regarding land
and water management, particularly in terms of increasing the efficiency of
the water course distribution systems. Central to improved farmer techniques
is an upgraded, more effective extension service, with greater emphasis on
reaching the small farmer, and with better linkages to an effective research
program.  In order to increase the basic productivity of the land, a major
effort needs to be made to increase investments in projects designed to reverse
waterlogging and salinity. The poor record in agriculture should not obscure
some genuine progress in certain areas. Fertilizer use has risen by 60% in
the past two years, and wheat production is nearing the point of self-
sufficiency. Exports of minor agricultural crops to the Middle East are in-
creasing. In the case of cotton, however, production has declined because of
adverse weather, insect attacks, and an inadequate program of pest control,
and this has tended to depress the overall results for the agricultural sector.
6.        After agriculture, which accounts for about 32% of GDP, manufacturing
is the second largest sector of the economy, contributing about 16% of GDP and
50% to 60% of total exports. Since 1973, the major change in the industrial
sector has been the expansion of public sector involvement, from about 10%
to about 25% of industrial assets. In January 1972, the Government took over
31 private companies in 10 basic industrial categories. This was followed by
the takeover of the vegetable ghee industry, the cotton and rice export trade,
commercial banks, shipping, life insurance and gas and oil distribution. In
July 1976 the Government nationalized the larger units in rice and flour mill-
ing, as well as all of the cotton gins. These actions have adversely affected
the climate for private investment, particularly in the industrial sector.
Rice and flour mills and some cotton gins have recently been returned to their
former owners.
7.        While industrial growth averaged close to 10% per annum during the
1960's, since 1970 it has been only about 2% per annum. The decline in the
growth rate is a result of a number of factors including lower private
investment during the late 1960's and early 1970's and the problems with agri-
cultural production which reduced the availability of some raw materials.
Since FY74, the international recession has had a major impact by reducing
demand for Pakistan's exports, particularly textiles. Output of both cotton
yarn and cloth is estimated to have been lower in FY76 than in FY74. The
textile industry has suffered from problems of low efficiency and a lack of
competitiveness in foreign markets. Manufacturing growth generally has been
affected by the poor performance of public sector enterprises. Difficulties
in the public sector include inadequate managerial autonomy, pricing policy,
and problems of financial accounting and control.



- 3 -
8.        Exports have remained depressed for the past few years in part
because of the international recession while imports have increased rapidly.
Import prices increased 45% in FY74 and 48% in FY75, but in FY74 the rise was
offset by increases in major export prices, particularly of cotton and rice.
In FY75 the full effect of earlier petroleum price increases, combined with
falling export prices for most products, produced a 37% decline in the terms
of trade, although a slight improvement is estimated to have taken place
in FY76. As a consequence of these developments, the deficit on the current
account of the balance of payments increased from $130 million in FY73, an
exceptionally good year, to $950 million in FY76. Preliminary figures in-
dicate that it rose further to US$1.3 billion in FY77. These large deficits
have been financed by expanded borrowings from foreign sources. Domestic
resource mobilization, on the other hand, has declined markedly, with the
overall savings rate falling from about 10% of GDP in FY73 to 4% in FY75, and
public savings turning negative. Although there was some improvement during
the past two years, overall savings amounted to only 7%, and public savings
to 2%, of GDP in FY77. The decline in private savings can be traced to lower
corporate profits as well as the lag of interest rates behind the rate of
inflation. Annual price increases averaged over 20% during 1973-75 but
bank deposit interest rates were only 7-8%. While the rate of inflation has
been brought down to around 9% during the past two years, deposit rates have
been around 8.5-9.5%. Real interest rates have therefore been barely positive.
9.        In the past few years the contribution of the public sector to
domestic savings has been unsatisfactory. Recently, a number of steps have
been taken to improve public sector resource mobilization, including substan-
tially higher prices of electric power, cement, petroleum products, railway
and air fares, and import tariffs. Steps have also been taken to simplify
the income tax and improve its enforcement. Subsidies of various types which
amounted to Rs 3 billion in FY75, or about 15% of current government expendi-
tures, are estimated to have been reduced to Rs 0.6 billion in FY77. These
revenue efforts, together with substantially increased inflows of capital,
have not been sufficient, however, to match the Government's increased spend-
ing. In FY77 the overall budget deficit was Rs 5.6 billion.
10.       Since FY72, the Government has attempted to increase output through
a program of investments in infrastructure, industry and the social sectors.
A large number of projects in heavy industries, chemicals and fertilizers
have been started, as well as substantial new investments in power and trans-
port. While the rate of investment has increased, the long lead times asso-
ciated with these projects have reduced their impact on present production
levels. Despite stagnant domestic output, low savings, and deteriorating
terms of trade, the Government was able to continue, and even accelerate,
this investment program because of the generous assistance received from
abroad, particularly from the OPEC countries. However, the balance of pay-
ments deficits in recent years have exceeded by a substantial margin the
amount of external assistance available on suitably concessionary terms. It
is essential that the Government bring investment more closely into line with
domestic savings and foreign assistance available on favorable terms. In the
1978 Annual Development Plan a start has been made towards limiting the growth
in the public investment level. In reviewing the investment program, emphasis



- 4 -
should be given to providing resources for agriculture and other areas, where
it seems possible to obtain a substantial and rapid increase in production
and exports. At the same time, projects of doubtful economic justification
need to be re-examined.
11.       By the end of FY77 the total debt outstanding, excluding undisbursed
amounts, was about $6.4 billion. Debt relief given by the Consortium countries
reduced debt service payments in FY77 to a level equivalent to only 14% of
export earnings and workers' remittances. Rising foreign exchange remittances
from Pakistan nationals working abroad (US$578 million in FY77) are expected
to continue to temper the increase in the debt service ratio. Nonetheless,
the debt service ratio is expected to rise to about 16% in FY78 and somewhat
higher thereafter, since the end of debt relief arrangements will coincide
with a sharp increase in repayments owed to the OPEC countries. With this
prospect, Pakistan obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its ability
to borrow to meet its future requirements. It clearly cannot afford to con-
tinue to borrow heavily on commercial terms and therefore will have to tailor
its plans and programs to the availability of external finance on suitable
terms. For this reason the major part of Bank Group lending to Pakistan con-
sists of IDA credits. Rough estimates suggest that, within an appropriate
framework of policies and programs, Pakistan should be able to progress in
improving the standard of living of its people, while containing its debt
service ratio to 20%. The achievement of this objective will, however,
require decisive action by the Government to deal with the underlying causes
of the country's poor economic performance in recent years. Appropriate
policies need to be framed to deal with a broad range of economic issues,
including resource mobilization, promotion of exports and disappointing
agricultural and manufacturing performance. At the same time, action is
needed to strengthen public sector institutions. The capacity of public
agencies to implement government policy and operate commercial enterprises
has, in recent years, failed to keep pace with the large increase in their
responsibilities.
12.       Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY77 was about
15% of its external public indebtedness; by 1980 this ratio is likely to fall
to about 11%. The share of the Bank Group in total debt service (after taking
account of the debt relief which Pakistan receives from other creditors) is
now about 11%, but is expected to decrease to about 9% in 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
13.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.6 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all sec-
tors of the economy. Through FY77, 41% of total commitments were for public
services, 24% for agriculture, 33% for industry, of which 10% was for indus-
trial imports, and 2% for education. Lending for public services has amounted



to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for railways,
electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommunications and
water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture was for Indus
Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most projects for
which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now going ahead
satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered are that the rates
charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with inflation and,
hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December 31, 1977,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
14.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.    One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries, such as PICIC, which
finances the medium and large-scale private sector, the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) for the small and medium scale industrial sector,
with possible participation by commercial banks, and the National Development
Finance Corporation (NDFC) for industries in the public sector. The most
important part of future lending for agriculture is expected to be for the
Government's program to increase productivity in the Indus Basin by control-
ling salinity and improving the utilization of surface irrigation and ground-
water. The Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant
for improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus Basin.
15.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
16.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have been working
with municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of this plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government



- 6 -
reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Planning in
Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is
for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore
water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for the financ-
ing of urban studies in Lahore.
17.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Appraisal missions have completed
field reviews of an agricultural extension and development project in the
Punjab, a third power project and a petroleum development project. Prepa-
ratory work is proceeding on another irrigation and drainage project in the
Northwest Frontier Province, a fourth agricultural credit project, a third
highways project and a Karachi bulk water supply project.
18.       IFC has made investments in nine Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$30.2 million, of which US$22.9 million was by way of loans and US$7.3
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$11
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE INDUS BASIN AND TARBELA DEVELOPMENT FUND AGREEMENTS
The Indus Basin Development Fund Agreements
19.       The partition of the Indian subcontinent in 1947 resulted in the
border between India and Pakistan being drawn across the Indus River system.
Pakistan became the downstream riparian on all the tributaries, and the divi-
sion of the waters became a major international dispute. In the hopes of
achieving a mutually acceptable solution, the Bank offered its good offices
to India and Pakistan in 1951. This offer was accepted by both countries in
1952. In 1954 the Bank put forward a proposal for a settlement with three
basic features:
(a) The waters of the three Western rivers, the Indus, the
Jhelum and the Chenab, were to be allocated to Pakistan,
and the waters of the three Eastern rivers, the Ravi, the
Beas and the Sutlej, to India. The areas in Pakistan,
hitherto fed by the Eastern rivers, would in future be
fed by water to be transferred from the Western rivers
by means of a system of replacement works.
(b) India would make a contribution to the cost of the
replacement works.
(c) During construction of these works India would limit
her withdrawal from the Eastern rivers in step with
Pakistan's capacity to replace the waters used by India.



- 7 -
20.       In September 1960, after several years of negotiations in which
the Bank played a considerable role, India and Pakistan signed the Indus
Waters Treaty. Under the Treaty, after a Transition Period (which expired
on March 31, 1970) to allow for the construction of "replacement" works (dams,
barrages and link canals), it was agreed that India would have the sole use
of the waters of the Eastern Rivers and would make a contribution to the cost
of the replacement works, while Pakistan would have the use of the waters of
the Western Rivers.
21.       This solution of the dispute became feasible as the result of the
willingness of a number of countries and the Bank to provide substantial
financial assistance to supplement India's payment due under the terms of the
Indus Waters Treaty. Accordingly, the Indus Basin Development Fund (the Indus
Fund) was established with commitments from Australia, Canada, Germany, New
Zealand, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, the United States and the Bank to con-
tribute in grants and loans (including L 62,060,000 to be provided by India
under the Indus Waters Treaty) the equivalent at that time of US$895 million.
The Bank contributed a loan of US$90 million (US$80 million as a contribution
to the Indus Fund and US$10 million to meet interest charges during contruc-
tion) and agreed to act as Administrator.
22.       The system of works originally consisted of the construction of two
large dams, one on the River Jhelum (Mangla) and another on the River Indus
(Tarbela), about 400 miles of new link canals, three major and two minor
barrages, the remodelling of three existing link canals, and a program of
tubewells and drainage. At that time the total cost of the system was esti-
mated at US$848 million equivalent.
23.       When some civil works contracts had been awarded, it became apparent
that the funds committed would be insufficient to complete the full program
of works. After discussions among the Bank, the contributing governments
and Pakistan, agreement was reached on a new financing plan for a reduced
system of works in which Mangla Dam, the barrages and the link canals would
be given priority and the tubewells and drainage works would be omitted; any
funds remaining in the Indus Fund would be made available to Pakistan to
finance the Tarbela Dam on the Indus or another water development project, to
be agreed by the Bank and Pakistan after a study of the water and power sector
in the then West Pakistan. The new financing plan contemplated increased
foreign exchange contributions by the contributors totalling US$315 million
equivalent (including US$58.5 million from IDA). For its part, Pakistan
agreed to provide all future rupee requirements of the Indus Fund. These
arrangements were embodied in the Indus Basin Development Fund (Supplemental)
Agreement, 1964.
24.       The study provided for in the Supplemental Agreement 1964 was
carried out by several firms of consulting engineers and a group of Bank staff
directed by Dr. Peter Lieftinck, who was at that time an Executive Director
of the Bank. The study endorsed the high priority given to the Tarbela Dam
Project by Pakistan and confirmed that the project was technically feasible



- 8 -
and economically justified either singly or as part of a comprehensive devel-
opment program. 1/
The Tarbela Development Fund Agreements
25.       Discussions subsequently took place on various occasions within the
framework of the Pakistan Consortium to consider how the balance of the funds
for Tarbela might be provided to supplement the sum likely to be available
for transfer from the Indus Fund, then estimated at US$324 million. At the
time the Tarbela Project was estimated to cost US$828 million equivalent,
including US$492 million ifl foreign exchange.
26.       In March 1968, an agreement was reached in principle on the terms of
the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement. In April 1968 the Executive Directors
approved a resolution authorizing the signature on behalf of the Bank whereby,
inter alia, the Bank would become Administrator of the Fund and would make a
loan of US$25 million (Ln. 548-PAK). The other parties agreed to make the
following contributions towards the foreign currency costs of the Tarbela
Project.
Country                       Amount             US$ Equivalent. 1968
Canada                  Can$ 5,000,000                 4,625,000
France                  FF 150,000,000 /a             30,383,000
Italy                   Lit 25,000,000,000           40,000,000
United Kingdom          E 10,000,000                 24,000,000
United States           US$50,000,000                 50,000,000
/a Later increased to FF 167,000,000 following the 1969 devaluation
in order to maintain the original US Dollar equivalent of the
contribution.
27.       The main civil works contract for the Tarbela project was awarded
in May 1968 to the Tarbela Joint Venture (TJV), a consortium of Italian and
French firms, later joined by a number of German and Swiss firms. After some
initial difficulties, the major engineering works were constructed on schedule
and by the middle of August 1974 the main embankment dam had been completed.
The impounding of the reservoir began in July 1974. During this impounding,
damage occurred to the inlet passages of tunnels 1 and 2 and to the outlets
of tunnels 3 and 4 and a number of sinkholes were found in the upstream
blanket. As a result, repairs and additional remedial works, then estimated
to cost about US$60 million, were required.
28.       After the mishap the Government of Pakistan asked for the Bank's
assistance in obtaining the additional funds required to repair the damage
and complete the Project. As soon as a reasonably firm cost estimate was
1/   Study of the Water and Power Resources of West Pakistan, dated July 28,
1967.



- 9 -
available, the Bank, in its capacity as Administrator of the Indus Basin and
Tarbela Development Funds, approached the countries who had previously con-
tributed to these Funds and five countries, namely, Australia, Germany, Italy,
the U.K. and the U.S.A. agreed to make available additional funds as special
contributions to the Tarbela Development Fund to help meet the foreign ex-
change cost of the repairs and the remedial works. IDA agreed to provide a
Credit for US$8.0 million (Cr. 581). Contributions from other sources were
as follows:
Source                        Amount             US$ Equivalent, 1975
Australia               A$ 1,000,000                   1,300,000
Germany                 DM 15,000,000                  6,300,000
Italy                  Lit 6,300,000,000             10,000,000
United Kingdom          i 2,500,000                    6,000,000
United States           US$10,000,000                 10,000,000
29.       In addition, Canada agreed that it would release, for untied use,
the unused balance of approximately US$3 million of its original tied contri-
bution to the Tarbela Development Fund. Because of changes in currency rates,
the total additional foreign exchange which became available, including the
US$3 million equivalent from Canada, was US$40.4 million equivalent.
30.       The Tarbela Development Fund (Supplemental) Agreement, 1975, pro-
vides for the sharing among the special contributors, including Pakistan,
of any recoveries by Pakistan on account of the cost of repairs to the
Tarbela Dam, or any surplus remaining after completion of the repairs and
additional remedial works. Under this Agreement, each contributor is free
either to receive payment of part of its special contribution, or to apply
its share of such recoveries or surplus to any other purposes by agreement
with Pakistan.
31.       In its capacity as Administrator of the Tarbela Development Fund
the Bank receives the contributions from the parties, including the transfer
from the Indus Basin Development Fund, holds the assets of the Fund in trust
and arranges for the disbursement of the resources of the Fund to meet expen-
ditures of the Project. The Bank, as Administrator, is also responsible for
the general supervision of the Project on behalf of the parties to the Agree-
ment. It is entitled to reimburse itself out of the Fund for expenses in-
curred solely because of its services as Administrator.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Description of the Project
32.       The Tarbela Dam consists of an earth and rockfill dam across the
River Indus, about 40 miles Northwest of Islamabad. Prior to the decision
to proceed with construction, very extensive feasibility and design studies
were carried out. The dam, 485 feet high and about 9,000 feet long at its



- 10 -
crest, is abutted on the left bank by two auxiliary dams. The main dam is
the largest of its type ever constructed. The dams are designed to impound
11.1 million acre feet (MAF) of water which would provide initially 9.3 MAF
of live storage. Two spillways are provided at the left abutment, with a
capacity sufficient to handle over twice the largest flood on record.
33.       Four tunnels, each 45 feet in diameter at the upstream end, were
excavated through the right abutment to divert the flow of the river during
construction. Three of these tunnels are designed to serve as power intakes,
and each will serve four generating units. The fourth tunnel will serve as a
permanent irrigation outlet. In addition, Pakistan at its own cost, initiated
the construction of two further tunnels as additional irrigation outlets; one
of these is complete and in use, the other is incomplete. The Tarbela Power
Plant, when completed, will have 12 generating units of 175 Megawatts (MW)
each, a total of 2,100 MW. The ongoing Project includes a powerhouse struc-
ture to accommodate the first four generating units. These units and their
related equipment were financed with assistance from Japan. 500 kV and
220 kV transmission lines required to transmit the power generated at Tarbela
to the main load centers were financed with assistance by Canada and the
People's Republic of China respectively.
Present Status
34.       The Project is now substantially completed.   Irrigation water has
been available from the Project for some time, and power generation began in
May 1977. However, although the project facilities are now in use, a series
of problems have arisen since the first impounding of the reservoir in July
1974 which have required repairs and additional remedial works and have con-
siderably increased the cost of the Project.
35.       As already indicated (paragraph 28), after the mishap in 1974 the
Bank, in its capacity as Administrator of the Indus Basin and Tarbela Devel-
opment Funds, approached contributors to these Funds at the request of the
Pakistan Government and an agreement was reached to make additional funds
available as special contributions to the Tarbela Development Fund to meet
the foreign exchange cost of the repairs and additional works. The essen-
tial works initiated after the 1974 damage were completed before the reservoir
began to fill again and the project facilities were brought into operation in
mid-1975. Unfortunately, new difficulties came to light shortly afterwards.
These were followed by further incidents in 1976 and 1977.
36.       The problems experienced during 1975-77 mainly concerned the stil-
ling basins and spillways. Damage occurred to stilling basin 3, and to a
lesser extent to stilling basin 4, during operational use in both 1975 and
1976. Stilling basin 3 has now been repaired and reinforced and its recent
performance under operating conditions has been satisfactory. Possible
modifications to stilling basin 4, which is intended to be the main outlet
for irrigation water, are being studied. The main alternatives under con-
sideration are converting stilling basin 4 to a flip bucket, a proposal
favored by the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) mainly on the
grounds that inspection and repair would be facilitated, or reinforcing the
basin in the same manner as stilling basin 3; another possible modification



- 11 -
would be the addition of raised end cills and bulkheads on the basins for
ease in dewatering and inspection. Some important questions remain to be
solved before a final decision on these alternatives can be taken, parti-
cularly relating to the shape of the flip bucket, the extent of downstream
scour and the scour protection required. The effects of possible spray on
the powerhouse and switchyard will also require consideration. Erratic dev-
elopment of the plunge pool of the main spillway during the summer of 1977
endangered the structure and made it necessary to take it out of service and
to bring the auxiliary spillway into use. An urgent program of repairs is
now in progress on the main spillway in order that it can be ready to handle
the monsoon flood waters in mid-1978. Further works to reinforce the spillway
are under study and it is envisaged that additional works will be carried out
in 1978/79 to augment and consolidate the measures currently being implemented.
Sinkholes have developed in the reservoir blanket; these have been controlled
by dumping material from barges.   Further details on the recent problems, and
the corrective action taken or planned are provided in Annex III, Section IV.
37.       The need to have the main spillway operational before next June
requires that this work be given top priority. The Contractor began work
on the spillway repairs in October and is so far on schedule. As already
indicated, the further works to be undertaken on the main spillway and on
stilling basin 4 are still being studied. It would require two to three
years to complete the outstanding works on these structures, taking into
account the seasonal constraints imposed by the need to satisfy flood and
irrigation water releases. However, as already stated, irrigation and power
benefits are already being obtained from the Project and, barring any further
unforeseen developments, will be increasingly realized during this period.
Financial Position
38.       The additional problems encountered by the Project have increased
project costs from a 1975 estimate of US$1,028 million to the current esti-
mate of US$1,274 million (see Annex III, Section V). As a result, the Tarbela
Development Fund will be exhausted in a few months and requires replenishment.
It is not possible at present to give a close estimate of the funds which will
be-required since further studies have to be completed before the scope of the
further remedial works can be determined (paragraph 36 and Annex III, Section
IV). On present tentative estimates, additional foreign exchange expenditures
of at least US$100 million are in prospect on the spillways and stilling basins
and the amount could be $120 million or more. In addition, the cost of the
repairs and additional works already completed was about US$15 million more
than estimated at the time of the 1975 Supplemental Agreement. Making an
allowance for contingencies, the additional foreign exchange required for the
project is estimated for planning purposes in the order of US$150 million.
Rupee costs are estimated to be over Rs 1,000 million higher than in May 1975.
The studies being carried out are to be reviewed by WAPDA and the technical
consultants in March 1978 with a view to determine the scope of the further
works required. Annex III, Section V gives the latest estimate of the re-
sources of the Fund and a summary of the estimated cost of the project.



- 12 -
39.       The works are insured for the joint benefit of WAPDA and the
Contractor under All Risks and Third Party insurance policies until termina-
tion of the maintenance period, with a maximum coverage of US$100 million for
any one event; this was the maximum coverage that could be obtained. Certain
risks are excluded, one of which is "faulty design".
40.       Promptly after the 1974 accident, claims were presented to the in-
surers who rejected them on the grounds of "faulty design" of the works and
lack of fortuity. A notice of intention to arbitrate the claims was filed
by WAPDA and the Contractor following the rejection of the claims. Since
then, an intensive and detailed review of the events that led to the 1974
accident and its possible causes has been conducted by WAPDA's engineering
consultants in cooperation with the Contractor. As a result of this review,
WAPDA and the Contractor have agreed to pursue the major claims against the
insurers and WAPDA has agreed to bear the bulk of the cost of the repairs
which cannot be claimed from the insurers or are eventually not paid by the
insurers. A joint response to the insurers' rejection of claims, together
with a detailed technical report, was submitted to the insurers in August
1977. It is not possible to predict at this time the outcome of the claims.
41.       In the meantime repair work by the Contractor has been financed
by means of temporary financial assistance made available by WAPDA from the
Tarbela Development Fund to the Contractor. This assistance will be con-
verted into payments to the Contractor as soon as agreement is reached
between WAPDA and the Contractor on the appropriate prices to be applied or,
failing agreement, as soon as the prices have been determined by an independent
expert and appropriate adjustments made for the share of the cost to be borne
by the Contractor.
42.       Any recoveries from the insurers on account of the 1974 accident
will be paid into the Tarbela Development Fund; under the terms of the 1975
Supplemental Agreement, such recoveries are to be applied to the prepayment of
the special contributions (including Pakistan's own contributions) made at the
time of the 1975 Supplemental Agreement or to any other purpose agreed by the
contributor and Pakistan. It is hoped that most of the special contributors
would give permission to use such recoveries as part of the general resources
of the Tarbela Development Fund. Since it is not possible to estimate at this
time whether and to what extent there will be recoveries from the insurers to
be included in the overall resources of the Fund, no account of such recoveries
has been taken in estimating the financial requirements of the Project.
43.       Under the provisions of the Tarbela Development Fund Agreements,
the Pakistan Government is responsible for providing any foreign exchange
required to complete the Project. However, the amount of additional foreign
exchange now required for the Project is very large and would impose a con-
siderable strain on Pakistan's already tight financial situation. The
Government therefore requested the Bank, and the Bank agreed, to assist it
again in trying to raise additional foreign exchange for the Project. Pak-
istan is making a very large contribution towards the cost of the Project by
providing the entire rupee requirements.



- 13 -
44.       Previous fund-raising efforts for Tarbela were confined to the
original parties to the Indus Basin and Tarbela Development Fund Agreements.
On this occasion, the Bank agreed with the Pakistan Government to appeal to a
larger group and to seek contributions from prospective new as well as past
contributors. Discussions on the matter were held with members of the Pak-
istan Consortium in December 1977 and again in February 1978. Pakistan and
the Bank also directly approached a number of possible donors outside the
Consortium, including OPEC sources. The outcome of these efforts is discussed
below.
Arrangements for Additional Financing
45.       As a result of the various approaches made by the Bank and the
Pakistan Government, six countries, namely, Australia, Canada, Germany, Italy,
Netherlands and United Kingdom, have expressed willingness to provide addi-
tional untied financing for the Project subject to formal approval by their
respective authorities. In some cases the size of these prospective contri-
butions has not yet been determined but, on the basis of information so far
available, a total amount in the order of US$55 million seems likely to be
forthcoming from these countries. Firm responses are still awaited from OPEC
sources who have been approached for assistance: tentative indications are
that OPEC contributions may be around US$50-60 million. Including the pro-
posed IDA Credit of US$35 million, therefore, there appears to be a good
prospect that additional external financing will become available to cover
most if not all of the estimated foreign exchange expenditures required to
complete the Project. Negotiations for the proposed IDA credit were held in
Washington in January 1978. The Pakistan Delegation was led by Major General
Fazli Raziq, Chairman WAPDA.
46.       The proposed legal and administrative arrangements for the addi-
tional financing will be substantially the same as for the supplementary con-
tributions in 1975, namely that the contributions (including the IDA Credit)
will be made to the Tarbela Development Fund and will be held in trust by the
Bank, as Administrator of the Fund, as part of the overall resources of the
Fund to meet expenditures for the project. The Bank, as Administrator, will
continue to be responsible for the general supervision of the Project on
behalf of the contributing parties (Section 7.01(a) of the Tarbela Fund Agree-
ment 1968). An understanding has been reached with GOP/WAPDA that: (a) the
detailed procedures for project coordination and decision-making agreed pre-
viously will continue to be followed; and (b) in emergency situations devia-
tions from the agreed procedures will be minimized, and the Administrator kept
fully informed. The arrangements provide for the sharing out among the addi-
tional contributors on a pro-rata basis of any surplus foreign exchange remain-
ing in the Tarbela Fund after completion of the works. Pakistan would under-
take to provide all local currency funds required to complete the works and
any shortfalls in the foreign exchange resources of the Tarbela Fund. These
provisions would be included in a general supplemental agreement between
various contributing parties, Pakistan and the Administrator.
47.       As indicated in paragraph 27, the project works have been executed
by the Tarbela Joint Venture (TJV), who were awarded the main civil works



- 14 -
contract in May 1968 after international competitive bidding. Because of
the emergency nature of the remedial-works, WAPDA has entrusted their exe-
cution to TJV. The spillway works are being carried out by the main con-
struction companies associated in TJV, under a new joint venture arrangement,
on the basis of a letter of intent, pending the completion of negotiations
for a firm contract. Interim payments are being made to the Contractor on
the basis of estimated costs. These arrangements represent the only practical
approach in the circumstances.   WAPDA has confirmed its intention to complete
negotiations for a contract on reasonable terms and conditions as soon as
possible.  It is envisaged that other future repair work may also have to be
carried out on a negotiated basis but, to the extent possible and as time
permits, additional works required will be tendered in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines.  Equipment for operation and maintenance of the project
will be procured in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
48.       Estimates of prospective expenditure on the Project indicate that,
following exhaustion of the present foreign exchange resources available to
the Tarbela Development Fund around the end of March, disbursements against
new contributions would amount to about US$15 million during the remainder
of this fiscal year. Disbursements from the Fund are tentatively estimated
at about US$60 million in FY79, about US$50 million in FY80, about US$20
million in FY81, and about US$5 million in FY82. The proceeds of the IDA
Credit would be drawn upon as needed to meet the foreign exchange require-
ments of the Fund taking into account the timing of other additional contri-
butions; the dates of these contributions will be determined in part by the
budgetary procedures of the participating countries. It is expected that,
since only small amounts may become available from other contributions before
June 30, 1978, the IDA Credit would be drawn upon quite heavily to meet pro-
ject expenditures during the last quarter of this fiscal year, with the dis-
bursement of the balance of the Credit being spread over the next four years.
Project Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
49.       WAPDA has begun to assume responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of the Project.   It is now responsible, inter alia, for the O&M
of the power facilities and for the repair and maintenance of the reservoir
blanket. It is taking additional steps to assume full responsibility for
Project O&M during the next 24-36 months. Monitoring and maintenance of the
civil works will be a continuous and demanding task. Even after the major
repairs and additional remedial works have been completed it may be necessary
to control sinkhole formation by barge dumping and to repair erosion and
cavitation damages to the spillways and irrigation outlets. Agreement has
been reached that GOP/WAPDA will establish and submit to the Association in
the course of this year a program of operation and maintenance for the Project,
including appointment and training of necessary staff and procurement of equip-
ment, and for the regular inspection of the dam and other structures to ensure
their safety (Section 3.02 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits
50.       Completion of the works at Tarbela is a crucial element in the
strategy for the optimal utilization of the Indus Basin resources. The



- 15 -
Project will help to meet Pakistan's growing needs for irrigation water and
electric power. Given the need for-the Project and considering the large
resources already expended on it, there can be no doubt that the proposed
works deserve the highest priority.
51.       As indicated in paragraph 26, the Indus Special Study endorsed the
high priority for the Tarbela Dam Project and confirmed that a dam at Tarbela
of 11.1 MAF gross storage capacity was technically feasible and economically
justified, either singly or as part of a comprehensive development program.
The rate of return on a project of this type is difficult to quantify, since
the return depends on the execution of major associated investments in power
and downstream irrigation and drainage facilities and on other Government pro-
grams and policies affecting the effectiveness with which water is used. The
quantification of project benefits is also complicated by the fact that water
is only one, though a crucial, element of a number of agricultural inputs
which may be used in various packages and the particular package employed in
any given set of circumstances will have a major bearing on the additional
output obtained. It was, however, estimated that the economic return of the
Project, on the basis of reasonable conservative assumptions, would be about
9-13%. The study's estimates suggested that about 75% of the main benefit of
Tarbela would accrue to agriculture, while 25% would be related to its hydro-
electric potential. In addition, there are other unquantified benefits in
the fields of flood control, fisheries and forestry.
52.       Since the Indus Special Study was made, project costs have increased
and there have been delays in downstream investments in irrigation and drainage
works as well as continuing inadequacies in water management, extension and
other agricultural services. On the other hand, new high-yielding crop varie-
ties have become available and the prospective value of agricultural crops and
electrical energy attributable to the Project has increased sharply; in par-
ticular, there have been substantial increases in the cost of energy, and
power related benefits have risen considerably and are now probably more than
half of the total. A tentative recalculation of the rate of return on the
Project indicates that it remains in the order of 10%.
53,       The main purpose of the Tarbela dam is to store water in the summer
flood season, when the discharges are greatly in excess of the amount that
could be used for irrigation purposes, for use in the rabi (winter) season,
when the main food crops are grown but natural river flows are low and var-
iable. The availability of additional surface water in the rabi season is
particularly important for further development in those areas which are not
underlain by fresh groundwater - about 40% of the Punjab and 80% of the Sind.
The total addition to rabi canal deliveries that would come from Tarbela
is only one part of the benefits that the project confers on agriculture.
Existence of a large reservoir on the Indus makes it possible to regulate to
a significant extent the time pattern of river discharges and hence to match
canal deliveries, in combination with supplies pumped from the groundwater
aquifer, to the rather inflexible time pattern of crop-water requirements in
a way that was not possible in the past.
54.       In order to derive the full benefits from the water provided by
Tarbela and other irrigation infrastructure in the Indus Basin, the works



- 16 -
must be operated and maintained so as to ensure that the maximum amount
of the water diverted from the rivers reaches the fields in a timely manner,
while at the field level the farmers must follow irrigation practices which
provide proper amounts of water to the crop root zone. At the moment, water
utilization in the Indus Basin is inefficient; studies have shown that up to
40-50% of canal water is lost before reaching the farms and at some times as
much as 30% of the remainder is wasted due to inefficient on-farm practices,
though in sweet-water zones some of this water can be retrieved through pump-
ing. In addition, plans are needed for related investments to allow use of
the water without negative effects such as increased waterlogging. Formula-
tion of such a plan necessarily includes decialons by the Go-Vernment on the
allocation of all the water available to the system. To help improve utili-
zation of the irrigation water provided by Tarbela and other facilities in
the Indus Basin, a UNDP-financed study is being undertaken, with the Bank as
Executing Agency, to formulate an action program and investment schedule for
the development of irrigated agriculture in Pakistan; this study is scheduled
to be completed at the end of 1978. Several projects to improve on-farm
irrigation and drainage are under implementation with assistance from the
Bank and other donors. Agreement has been reached with the Government that,
following completion of the report of the UNDP Study, revision to the Govern-
ment's plans for the development of irrigated agriculture in the Indus Basin
will be discussed with the Association; that Pakistan will use its best
efforts to implement programs, based on the study's findings, to increase
the effectiveness with which water from Tarbela is used, in accordance with
a time schedule mutually acceptable to Pakistan and thhe Association; and that
progress will be periodically reviewed with the Association (Section 3.04 of
the Development Credit Agreement).
55.       Four power generating units of 175 MW each have already been in-
stalled and commissioned at Tarbela with assistance from Japan. The ADB has
agreed to provide US$87 million toward the installation of a further four
units and further support is being discussed with Canada and other possible
donors. Twelve units in all are scheduled to be installed by 1985. By that
time, Tarbela will be contributing some 10 billion kwh, or more than one third
of Pakistan's total annual requirement of electric energy. It has been esti-
mated that Tarbela will save Pakistan about 500 trillion btu of natural gas
that would otherwise have to be devoted to the generation of electric power
before 1985.
Risks
56.       The problems which have been encountered since water was first im-
pounded at Tarbela have been substantial. It is clear, in the light of these
various incidents, that the size of the dam puts it at the outer edge of known
technology. Prompt action has been taken to deal with the problems and mea-
sures to safeguard the Project have been given the highest priority by the
Pakistan Government. Work programs to repair and strengthen the structures
have been formulated with the advice of international experts, and drawing
upon the results of model tests. These work programs have been efficiently
executed by the Contractor on schedule within the tight time limits imposed
by seasonal river conditions. Given the unprecedented size and complexity



- 17 -
of the Project, the possibility cannot be ruled out that further technical
problems may arise in the future. It is hoped however that, with the help of
the measures already taken or planned, any further problems will be relatively
minor. The Project is being monitored continuously with the assistance of an
elaborate system of surveying and recording equipment and the best available
expertise will continue to be employed to provide advice. The Government of
Pakistan has agreed to establish adequate operation and maintenance arrange-
ments for Tarbela and to arrange regular dam inspection (Section 3.02 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition to the immediate task of
ensuring that the Project is completed and functions satisfactorily, intensive
efforts will be required to reap the full benefit of the additional irrigation
water from the Project. This will require, inter alia, complementary down-
stream investments, strengthening of agricultural extension services, provi-
sion of inputs, improvement of water management and appropriate government
pricing policies. Assurances have been obtained from GOP regarding the for-
mulation and implementation of programs to increase the effective utilization
of Tarbela water (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section I (D) of the Articles of Agreement, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex III.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 15, 1978



- 18 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN           - SOC IAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                ----------------------------------------------
---------------                                PAKISTAN                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      JMD3                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC      NM                         1960      i970   ESTIMATE          INDIA         THAILAND       TURKEY
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   35iWIIotDrI7n            rT            100.0*     210.0       50.
00.0  210.0     500.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)          45.3      59.8      71.0 /a           547.6       36.3        35.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      56.0      74.0      89.0 /a           167.0       71.0       46.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     198.0      246.0     292.0 7a           308.0      263.0       65.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AY)        49.2      47.6      47.4               41.0       44.3        40.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         26 3,   . 20.1      18.5               19.0       13.7       l4 4,
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      142:0 L±k124.3     113.0                 ..       80.0       153:0Ž
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)      42.1      47.4      49.6               47.2       55.5       54.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2       3.7       3.6                2.9        3.2         2.6/b.c
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.3       2.9       3.0                2.3        3.1         2.5
URBAN                                S.0       4.0       3.9                3.2        4.9         4.8/d
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         22.5      24.8      26.0               19.8       15.0        38.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      42C0/a C 43.4         ..               41.6       45.1        41.7
15 TO 64 YEARS                      52.0a c, 12.7         ..               55.3       51.8       54.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                    6.t S..9             ..                3.1        3.1         4.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.9  a.c  0.9                          0.6        0.9         0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.7 /ae   1.6 /a      *                1.1 /a      *1 /a      1. 1 e
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)          ..        ..        ..            14585.0      470.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        ..        ..                 ..       10.0         8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THGUSAND)       13000.0   16100.0   20400.0           218000.0    18700.0/b   1450D.0/f
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)        59.0      57.0      54.8               39.0       79.0        67.0
UNEMPLOYED (1 OF LABOR FORCE)           ,.        ..                           ..         ..         4.0 /a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           20.3 /f   17.8       17.3              25.0 /b    22   Jc     32.8/h
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS           45.3 /f   41.8      41.5               53.1 75    5 s   7:c   6D 07W
LOWEST  2'2% OF PaUSENOLDS           6.47f     6.0       8.4                4.7 /b     5.617       2: 97
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS            17.5 -f   20.2      2u.6               13.1 7E'   14.377j      9-47W
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS          46.2        ..         ..                ..          ..       53.0
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS         0.4        ..         ..                ..          .         o0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITiON
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7450.04. 43100 /b 4070.0               4690.0     7970.0      2250.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      14960.0     4 8440.0  7460.0           5220.0 /c 6650.0        1770.0/i
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         2070.0/i 1870.0         ,,             1610.0      890.0       500.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (5 OF REQUIREMENTS)        64.0      99.0      93.0               93.0      103.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             55.0      59.0      56.0               53.0       52.0        78.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0/aj 140./C.       ..               16.0       17.O/d      22.ozJ
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..      17.4 /d                                             14.7Lk
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO             30.0      44.0      47.0
PRIMARY SCHOOL                                                             65.0       B1.0       109.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    10.0      14.0      15.0                 .0       16.0      21.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AN'D SECOND LEVEL)           lo.olk    10,0/e    10.0/f             12.0       12.0        11.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     1 0       2.0       2.0                6.0 Id    14.o/e     14.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE I_) t6,o/l                  20.0       21.0              33.0       79.0         5.0/1
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               3.1/U      ..        ..                 ..         ..         1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (I)                       ..        ..        ..                 ..         ..       64.o
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ,.        ..        ..                 ..         ..       41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY IX)                    ..        ..        ..                 ..         ..        18.0
CONSUMtPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER tHOU POP)         6.0      14.0      16.0               21.0       76.0        69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          1.0       3.0       3.0                           50          4
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          22.0      67.0     13.U              114.0      124.0       247.o
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              0.1/a,a   0.6       0.3                0.7         1.0        0.7
sEE----  -…---…-------    -------- ------ --                                      ---… -hD…-
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITZruNS ON REVERSE



- 19 -
AN4NEX I
NOTES
ninotharwias noted, data for 1960 refer to any yea     hatsen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 batwesa 1968 and 1970, and fot Mont Recant tuti-ut         betwe
1973 and 1975.
IMGP par capita dta are base.d on the World Rank Atlas anthdology (1974-76 baa ia).
as  Turkey has been selected as an obJective county for Pakistan since the natura1 resources, agricultural basi.soad econotrL.Lly            eficiet
production and inv.asoet progran     are likly to be siilar in both countries.        Moreove -r, Turkey and P.ki.tao have siilar religions and
cultural bockgrounds, with many of the san     social and cultural barriers to oodersination with Turkoy baing sosuhat ahead In this process.
PAKISTAN     1960    /a   I.clud.. data far Bangladesh;      /b  1962-65;     /c  tocloding frontier rogiona;      Ld   15-59 and 60 years and over -epe-tilvy,
Is  Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and over to total laker farce;         /f   1963-64;    /A   Rogiaterad, no   all practicing
is the coutry;      /h~ bocIdsa    idwi-a;      Li  Iocluding dispanasris ;      Lij 1960-62,     lb lUp to   anclco         (10th grade)
Il  5 years and over, the ability to read with understanding a short atatanet on every day lifa in any local language,            In  data
refer to ho~Osholda;      /.  Figure  dons not include inprta by land.
1970    Ia   Ratio of population neder 15 and 65 and over tottota1 labor force;         /b  Rsgiat.r.d, not all practicing in tha .ou.try,
/c  Up to matriculation (10th grade);       Id  Encluding population of D. I. then and Pseha..ar Diviabons         I   including data
for Bangladeah.
MOST RECENT gSTDIATE:      Li  1976;     lb  1971;    j/, 1972;      Id  Registered, not all practicing in the country;;       I   1969-71 average;
/f  Up to .   nulto       (10th grade).
INDIA        1970    /a   Ratio Of population under 15 and 65 and over to total laboc forc      ags 15 and over;      /b  1967-68;     /c  becl.diR oidvi-e,
/d 1967.
TM~LANjD    1970    Is   Ratio of population under 15 end 65 sod over to -enoically active population - ago II and         -ve;      /b  toonoically atti-s
population age 11 and over;      Ic  Rural only;     /d   1964-66,    /a   Publin schools,   hich includes technical edoation at
the poet-aecondary leva.
TURKEY       1970    /a   1967;    /b  Ecludee 17 eastern provines;         Ic  1965-67;     /d  1965-70,     Is  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over
to labor force aga 15 years and over;       If  15 yearst end ovr, anlde. -noplayd;           L   Regiiter.d only;      /b  Disposa.ble
cLnon,      /i  Inoluding aesiattet nussad ntd.vs,             Li164-66,        /k   196 7-68; La/I   Persons 01   yaarc and oer who
tell the ososus takers that they can rsad and -rite..
R12, October 31, 1977
gPDlINi050 OF SOCUIA ISDICATSL
Land urea ithon he2)                                             Poonla~~~~~~Ition ann urime  parson - Poplstion divided by nouben Of p-acticing
Totl-I  Total aurfaca area cospriing land area and inland waters.                         eaaad fan1 graduate noa,trained" or            ca-tifid" nurses, an d
Ag.ic.  -Mot recant estimate of arclo        al rsa used tanpo..aily or Pain-             amiliary persenl etch traning oc .oprni-os
satly f or oropa, pasture, markt & kitchon gardan     or to Ie. f.llna.               fPolattion mr hessital bad - .Poplation ditvdsd by aunb.r of hospital hda
avaiable in public sod p,ivat. gsnrna  and sp-i.li..d hospital and
OW ann c.nits (USl) - GNSP per cspits aetinates at current market priusa,                 rehabilitation cantata; ...lId.a  use    bone   an .d sstablisinaats for
calculated by .-   covraior nethd as World Rash Atl.s (1973-75 basis);                  custodial and preventive oars.
1960; 1970 sod 1975 data.                                                             par ..Pits. .... IVOf calo-la fI of raoi-nata) - Coapet.d fran -ngy
sqoiv-lest of -nt food .uppli.. availabls in .ountry par ..pit. par day,
Poponltion and vital statiatict.                                                          -vitabla supplisa cmpni. donatic praduotion, inpor          Ia.ls  soports, and
Poonl.tion fod,ea.r nillion)    as Of July firat: If ant    vilabla,   -rgo               changes in stock; mat supplies  noluds an1ima  feed, aasd., quanities used
of two end-year eatinacee; 1-60, 1978 and 1975 data.                                    in food processing and lasses in diattibution; raqui-nests wars satineted
by FAG bsed on phyiolagical neds far noesnl activity end health eanid-
Povoul.tio d-nity    p ar kosr h     - Mtd-y-a populatio  par squar  kil-tan              aing soino      tal tpanpratoc, body   sigbta. age and sea ditrtibution   of
(100 hentars) of total ara                                                               ouaIon , and allmcSm    181 for- wet. at   .howsld lave.
Ponlatio dsmin I    annso   r he Of aeric. land - Conptad as above for                  Per ca  t   . suey of enoei ln_ nn da          - Protain eantat Of per capi ta
agricultural land only.                                           oa~~~~~~~t supply of food per day; ant supply of food is dafinad asa shov; reqire-
nents for all counties sat.bliabd by Unno Ocononic Ossesnh lSvtn...
Vital statatic                                                                            proida for a iniont .llansn     of 60 gres   of total protein par day, and
Cead birthrte n "    ,ad     vr       -     Ina lion birthe par thouaad of              20 grous of an1ima  and pulse protein, of hichb 10 g-a    hould he animal
olVd-byear popoltio;hca-year arithestic    vrnaea ending in 1960 and 1978,               pr.tain. thesa standards ar  Inar then thosa of 75 gr-      f total p-otai
and five-year average anding is 1975 foc net recat atmati-e.                            and 23 gress of asimal protein as an -vareg   f on the  -Ird, "pooosd bly FA0
Cr.d! death rats ant thoC,aand. -vrass - dsAl1 deaths pen thousad of aid-year             in the Third World Food RSrvy.
Popelatiao; can-year aritheetic avragesending in 1960 and 1978 and five-              Pe aiaerti         ue, 7f;ra anima end wuls      - Pr-tin sapply cf food
yaae serega eding in1975 fr netrct    stma                                       erive     fra   a imals ad pleas inea     e dy
Wnfat neraliy ate. u/ha         AnouaI deaths of infants tndr ona year of age           Death radte f/thou) ages 1-4 - A--Ia deaths par thousan.d in age group 1-4
P"rte     n  lion births.                                                               years, to childre  in this age group; Sugsted aanindicator of
Lie enetan     I t birt fera   - Avera. e,br Of years of life rasoing at                  orbonitiaon
birth; ne" lly five-year areram   seding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for darlop-
ing coatries.                                                                         gdscstion
Gross rerdoinrt              rags saber of liv. daughisr    a   a    ill hear           Adla tdsrlliant ra.tio -     nr     col-       ooluto       alae      spt
in her eonnl rprdwa~tio    period if she aep-nison     preset ag-specific               ntg      fPdmay scol-g _       an   ain;tcue        ibtldra  agd6-l.
f-rnili ty ranesa; --IaIy fi-7eemr  -averg, ending in 19-60, 1970 and 1975              but adjeatd for diffarent Iangth. of primary edocasia; for     --tia    with
for developing aauntniea.                                    neiversal aducation, anrollnent nay enesad 1001 st-yeaceed e00 a Lo ps.-   pp era hblen
Peolatan tach etsil  - tonal - Copss-d anea grenth      ots. of aid-yearenboste                    ficlshola.
pesaana  for19   040  1960-70 end 1970-75.                                         Adlutad enolmet rtin -              mgodeeshool.- C-orptd as abov; eacondary
Pswato goc =   rat . 15 - eban - C.toptd lika greenb rate of total                      eduction require   at least fesar year  f approvd primary inetu-tbon;
populstion; diffsmat definitione of urban areas nay affect coperability of              providee genral, voctionl or tooth.r trining isatouttion       for pupils
data -    na.-nies,                                                                     Of 12 to 17 yeas- of age; conapandene     couse   are  wenerallyseld.
Urban saguiton CZ of totalS   - Ketio of orba   to total poplatiao; differet            Year of oheai::Es sevddfria and ...cond I.-I.) - Total years           f
daIniltiose of oban erse   ey affeet cap-bility of data anog cnMsetia.                    .ch..lng  anene         e         tl aian   imatrotian ny he part ialy on
ane icucurs oornntl  CSP,ldrven (0-16 years), working-age (15-64 yeasra,          Vocatial enrsllen     Pofen      adaet  - Vonstiona  inatitutia   inclde
anjrtird     6  years an  oreat.                                                                     L=    t-ix' r) as p-eonnages of aid-year peplatien  ehia,idane  on ther psWgn  which aperter indep-edantly en as
ASte deandenn rtin   - Macis of papuinti-onandr 15 and 65 and mar te thoee                deparcsant   of seoondsy istiwtni_.
ofaeaI  thooegl 64.                                                               Ad:!t lt**re     rate M5  - Liteatet adults fable to red and anita) as par-
Snonnindesedene rtis - Ratio of peplationo dan 15 and 65 end ove     ta              catg     f total adelt papuintion agd 15 yen     anda    .
nbalabr fnceinage grasp of 15-64 years.
Pe ieslenn     netr nssai              hu   - iSd:=  analantr  masher of enneptar     lM
50 binth,.antro  dav ona ~.  npi.!  fntoa       iypann          rga               f~0~ebn5               -Aeaewse           fproaprra           soope
sine. ineeptin.                                                                conmes6tmf~ThisT in -;L-Iaroma; delliegs entlaa epa-pa-nea
Penl, lsaion- aarsP o nenia wa l -Parousgesaf  arred  an  fta..nu           .e and  nornpie  pains
child-earin  age  15-44  ears)eho m  biet-seantrldinen O o a-ll eane ofuidda           ia wtotwie          aanP           nnpa      netoaldaIg
i  aage group,                                                                in ena   and trenal arses witout ineide en mstaids piped water f_ilities
tharl.~~~~~~~~msest                                                    V.-e~~~~~~~n aronteg Of all orceiad dwelling.
Aenas o aeaninte  efalldeeliMal - Con~eantinnal dlliege with
Total Labor feneitananl        - ooondSealy entiv   Peean-, i-elding seed                 elcnnt       nlining queoarte- speren      ofttldeig           n   ne    n
frerns.    anlpe       a netlung las       e   * studens, tte.lddf-miossa renl                brema
in en    encasastnis. ar  at eanpanebin.                                              Mustataa~rasl areiass e n dt  lnrmt        S- .nde           hn     a   ua
L.ben feon   i   eLnotreP        Agritoltssel Lebenr  os    i fares,    forestry,       RiVEaga only.1CI-t                          XI-Cor     d-      -f.       .
Ilealened P of abor faeceS - ~s.~pleped aresoanlly defimad ne prsonse wh.   Cacaoti
son  bleasa wilin  te  ahea jb,  ut f aJab on a give  day, tneine-d out    Medi rcivr L-       thusas-All types         f receivers fen redio broadcats
of a ab,  eakig wok fena spcifid ailese  Parie  ne                           toedngai generalpbi  pnts.     of pepsslation; secude   oolicad rOtsiv-r
ak; ay nothe cnparele bousesnosanis.des to differen  defimitiona             in Cootri-esand in yeas- wen ,agist_ati_on    f radio sMetsua in effect;
of nenplaye  and  ourca  f dst, e.g,  -la ast off Rae aretatiacin   s.-PI.   data for raeat years any man he nsepaable since nea       -MIsa abolished
Plasesenrtar fontpa thee smy) - Passenger car   nospvi.   eten car   ...ting
Inca distib    tion-  p,r   -ag   f Poiaest moons (both in -esh and kinds                 lesnI        ih   esnlec,de         nuscs*hessedalt
enaedby richest n, rihest 201,    erwc2,     aedpeet61o            a-vhsl b-eigtPs.--6                                    .-a         .. --        i-
holds.                                  -        t         ~      O   fho.                    1
gle teiit  QRWe  one nel      -    1~se  ea.Ption  of industrial,caril
Dintriotionof lad ina his -Perenetages of land onned by _lthi_at 101              pbec.ad onpeotio     des    ithout kllnttn fo,r losesin. gis but       llan
and peoea 185. of lata asarsv.                                                           bmed for  tee      an  eote, of. electricity.grd.bt                    1
= f.b,Od ::rtriti-                                                           (bkp.*/-M-r~~srit fhJvu annnew   - Pee Lsiaanalc~lni kilogra
Psuano _nnshvinia-       Pepeition divided by m.e_ of pr_ctiningt-"fe                                     -   l     --i        p--      --      fespit
pbyeiCiins qualIfied Pa a andicel ach_al at _ni__rity leael.



ANNEX I
- 20 -
ECONOMIC DEV~ELOH4MENT DATA
(Amouts is millions Of U.S. Dollars)
Acul                    E3.75ete.       -..........        1974.-     1977-       1978-      1983-
1974  j~~~        19_76      1977        121     55§            1977       1978        1983        1988       1977        1978       1983
At 1976 Prices and Exchange Rates                             Averge Ancual Grcoth Rates                   As Percet of ODY
NATICOA ACCOUNTS
Gros  Dneot-c ProduCt                     11925     12749        13083      13422       14514      1.9063       4.0        8.1         5.6        4 4        100.7       100.71      99 9
Oss- fran Te-s of Trade (t)                -436      oil         --3         -62                    -71
Crss -ontic Ioo-a                      T1I9      32863       138          3331      1441        190         5           8.2         sB8        4.4        100 0      100 0       1(07 0
Lo,ports tool. NYS                        2582       2419        2587        2718       2665        2936      -0.3         4.3        2.0         3.5         19.1       14          15 4
Exports iool. RI   (import capaity)        112'5     485         1432        1305       1.446       2277       5.1        io.8         9.5        5.0          9.6       13) 0       11.7
Resource Gap                    1~~~~~~~~457  3165     115         1413       1219        63         50         -2.6      -11.6         5.8          W          2            .
EocnliaRpendturc                   11489      11899       11965       12031      13027      1.6649       1.5         8 3        5.0         4.2        90.1        934         4p 
InotuEttp. (tool. soi)               1472      1911         2273       2550        2611       3093      20.1         2 4         3.4        3.9         19.1        1ll.1      I6.1
Doa-tsc Soviags                            668        833        13127       1299       1392        2434      24.8         7.2       11 0         5.4         l,7         9.7        13- 8
Nat-los Sa-ingw8                                       7         1326        1732       1915        3187      30 1        10.6       10.7         3.5         13o0        1, 2        6 
~CME AGISE ~TRADE                                      A-c.ua Data at Curren t Prices                              A--rgn A-1sa Grcuth Rates                     As P.rcet ci COY
1,ports
Capital Goods                             411       621          723        865       1.149       1779        14.3       32.8        9.1       11.0         34.1       40 2        u2.6
Iote ,ediate Goods (cRl    fuels)        61.4       824         750        1171        796        113        19.9         s.6       6.9        12.0         30.3       27.9        26.6
of hiloS, fertillcer                  97        102          58          67        192          41       -8.3        86.6     -26 6         -            0.6        6.7i        1.0
V)L.                                     238        335         359         411        495         619       20.0        20.4       4 6        10.2         16.p       17 3        01.8
Coooacrpts-  Goode                       384         428        50          253        4i6         668        3.4        -2.1       9.9        14.i         i6.8       14.6        16.0
Total MeohanduseImports(oaf.)     174      941           2397       2700      T935         4179        15.5       12.6        7.9       117          0.0         0.0        00
Exports
Ra- Cotton                                 38       159          99          30         66         256       -7.6       120.0      31.1         6 9          5.6        4..         9.5
Cotton Tars                              183         86         144         123        222         300      -12.4        80.5       6 2        13 4         io.8       i6,.c       11.1
Cotton Cloth                             143        133         130         182        i48         245        4.2         8.6      10.6        13.1         14.2       10 7         9.1
Rice                                     212        233         250         250        227         444        5.6         9.2      14 4         9 1         21.9       16 4        16 5
Othe..                                   450        367         539         576        723        1l52        8.6        25 5      15.0        14.7         50 5       52 21       53.0
Total Merchadise Esp-rto (fob)          1031      --FIR        TT         72171        1386       261          3.6       21.5       14.2       14.1        10.0       107.         00 
Merchandise Trade I.dlono                                        Average 1976 0 0
Export Price Indes                      106.9        99.7       100         103.        113.2      159.4      -1.0        9.1        7 1        6.9
Import Price Enden                        0 8       105.4        100.0      11:1.0      120.7      156.9     16.2         8.7        s. 4       7.0
Term  of Trade                          150.9        94.5        100.0       93.5        93.8      101.6    -14.7         0.3        1.6       -0 1
Exopet of Volrmm Indem                   78.6        87.6       100.0        97.5      107.7       157.5       7.4       10.5        7.9        6.8
VAISTE ADDED BY SECTOR                              Annual. Data at 1976 Pr-ion  and Eanhange Rates                 Averge Ausal Growth Rates                   As P-ront ot Total
Agrliolt-r                              3804       3719         37         3L3         29         5376         1.3        8.6        4.6        4.2         32.0        21.3        220
Manofacturing               2824      ~~~~~       ~~                         ~~2806  2I84  390   -2.0        6.8        7.0         8.o        21.6         .32.0
Other Sectors                            4782      506         540         572        62.5g        1           6.2        8.4        5.6        5.9         46.4        46.5       46.5
Total                                  155         316         111         55        11548       17521        2.6         8.1        5.6        5.9        100.0       100.0      100) 0
PJBLIC PENANCE                                     Annual Data at 1976 Price  and Esohange Rates                   Aveage Annul Groth Rates                      Ao Pero-t of GDP
(~Central Governent) 1/
Currnt Receipts                         1948       1859        1991.       2100         .          ..        2.5          ..         .           .15.3
Curret kpemditsuea                      2021       2216        2258.226                                      3.8          ..         .           .16.5
Budgetary S-vlago                       -_73       -357         -267     -1  3          .          ..          ...                                          -1 2
Other Publh0 Sector
Puhbl  Seotor Investment                 745       1133        14s73       1618                             29.5                                            1.1.8
CURRENT EKPETSD1TUNN DRTAISA        ~~~~Actual Data             Eat.              DETAIL 01N PUBLIC SECTR     A196 Priesad Exchng          Rates,                         of Total
)Ao 9 Toa CuretEsen.                     1974        175        ~ 12&        f                INVESTMEINT PROGRAM5        199~ 97719977T
Education                               6.3         7.0         8.1        8.9                Social Sectors             127         187        278         264                       17.4
Other Social Services                  20.5        18.7       22.2        io.6                Agricultur  5/             235         295        324         315                      23.8
Agrinolture                              3.2        3.3         4.1        4.0                Industry & Mining          105         196        277         495                       21.9
Olther Ecmo1c ServIce                    3 6        3.2         3.0        3.3                Pwmer                      107         157        234         223                       14.7
Defense                                 38.0       39.7       4o.o        39.1                Tranap. & Camas     tietoas  149       221        252         262                       18.
Atui.hatratiss,                         8.5         7.5         7.9        8.5                Otber                       22          77~L       98         j                          4.1
Other-                                  19j 9      ao06       24.7        25.6                Total  spendlt-re          765        1133       210         261                        0.
Total Current Expenditures   100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0
FIRANC
Roblic Sector Savings 2/   -16        -107         56         is4                       -1 8
DoestDc Bor-oing           298         333         383        254                       25.8
Foreign Borrenng           463         90       ___          1210                       22.4
Total Financ.ing           745        533         1410       161                       100.0
Note   AU Year    given in thIs table refer to the Pakistan fiscal year July 1-Jane 3D. The fIsaml year is idetitfied hy the -alendar year in which it ends.
5/Consolidated federal and provincIal governmet.
5/Including empenditure on the Tarhela Dem project.
2/Includes interest payments.
5/Adjusted for i-vetmaet in curent, budget, tranfer      of surPles and self-financing by publie sector.
South Asia Department
Ictober 20, 49??'



Mffi12I
-  21 
FAXISTAN BALANCE OF PAYMR5T. EXTIRSAL A515TARCE AND DEET
amasoumts in itliins of U.3. doliars at current prices)
Avg Annal'
Actuai.                             Estited                               rojected                                    1,-oath Rotc
1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76   1976/77        1977/78       1978/79      1979/80      1980/81       11/82        1972/K6/`81/4
Scw4bBY 3ALAdCE OF PAYMRITS
ResourreBnLnce (M)             o94          1,202       1,25         1, 432           i,449           1,745        2.077         ,452        2,503                         18 
~~~UIsAnoi.2i!1  ~       ~                 LAdy        2.901        2.587            _,1_217                      .35         3.639         8 81           39 
Reosci-lscs 2X-M)                  -191          -2        -1,299       -1,155           I1,n           -~6           39         -127          .tf    ~     -:2
Tetes-eul (net)                         -84           -80         -93          -97             -136           -13           -2017        -228         -4o          -249 L7            9
DIrec:t Ines-ss     oos(e)               -              8           4          -25             - 28           - 31          - 34         - 38         - 41          - 17
-ikra' Enuitt-aen    (gs s).            145           150         229          353              595             700          770          853          950         1,              11 0
Other 'notor Sereioen (not)             .3. .,.                                  3
Ba'Lance on Current Accaui      n       1°z;30                 -1 itl                                                                                   .-    7   9 -1.
L30          7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 Mt3                                                                      0.1
rilete Dire-t ln-ent,scst (net)                        ..          -            41               45             50           55            60           66            /3
Official Capital Cranat (net)            46            91         140          120              102             100           SO           60           A0            20
D,!,iurMaLT     1/n                     356           497       1,019        1,067              86i            900         i,o16        1,056        i,064         1,1::3
Debs--seta                           -114          -106       -¶3           -171               3            -247          -315          349          377 74(3
oct c±aiacaeeents            T19~~_U       791         884            6                 6733                     -701          707        -79            TSO1
Net Disturse=ents           niF z           391
Other MALT Laonn
otih urnectT                          ...           ...         ...          ...               30             81            69           30           30            30
-6                                         44
Repe25entsl                           ..                                   -,14                                            24            -A           -4 
88816ibura4666n                                                                                  51)             746                      9             9             7
CapitaL Transactions n.e.i.  J           44            44         263           -               100
Change ms Net Reserves (-increnae)     -202            23        -f1L9        -130              211
1973/74      1974/75       197/76       197/T77
GRANT AND LOAN CCU4ITK  S                                                                          DPE2  AND DEBT SEBVICE
Public Debt Oats. & Dilbucoed             4,521         4,88i        5,693         6,318
Official Grants b Grant-like LawIs       29            30         nI6          120               Interest o Public Debt                     81           93           109          102
PV-tenis on Public Debt                   i lo6        135          147           163
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                TotaL Public Debt Se-rice                 187          228          256           265
IDBD                                   -             60          60           50               Dtbec Debt Berries (set)                   --
IlA                                    95            53          82                              o Mtel Debt Service (net)               187          ?28          256           265
Other Muliti-lateral                   39            82          71          119
G     veroasats 3/                    555         1,064         856          630            Burden on Export Paralogs (%( 2/
Supplier,                               5            13           9           4.2              Pblic Debt Service                        13 8         i5.4         14-3          13.0
Finnca    Istitution                    1            57          i2           iS               Total Debt S-rice-                                       -- 
Bonds                                                -           -            -                TDOBt Direct Invest. Inc.                  .. -                       ..
Public Loans n.e.i.
Totei Public MALT Loans       i       72          1399       1,2o         377              Average Tesr af Public Debt
Iot. an % Prior Year tOAD                  1.9          2.1          2.2           1 8
ActuaL Debt Outstanding   n Decber 31. 1976A                    t.      Pri        DOD                2.5          3.0           3.0          2.9
Disbursed Only                PFbrcent                   IERD Debt Outr. & Disbursed                  299          257           305          3(27
DEED as % Public Debt 05,0                    6.6          5.3          5.4           4.9
EXTEAL DEBT                                                                                        IiDe Debt Semi.e                             52.5         48.4         39.6          41.o
IDED                                       320                         5                      DE   a- % Public Debt Service                28.1         21.2         15.5          15.5
IDA                                        549                         9                      IDA Debt Oute. & Diebureed                    465          4n           506           530
Othec Multi-lateral                        122                         2                      ID  a % Public Debt OD                      10.3          9.6           8.9          8.4
Ooveesoneate                             4,75d                        80                      IDA Debt 8ervice                              4.2          5.7           5.7          6.i
Zspplier                                  1u5                          2                      IDA a  % Public Debt Rerr-ee                  2.2          2.5           2.2          2 3
rinannialinsltitutions                     102                         2
Roads
Public Debts n,.e.i. 
Toual Public KMA  Debt                     W0
Other IMA  Debts                           ...
Short-tern Debt (diub. onlY)               ...                        ..
. sot applicable                                                                                e   staff estiute
,, ant available                                                                                 -   a   o'r negligible
,    not ailble seatly but included in total                                                     --   lees than helf the sallest unit shone
V    The figures for 1975/76 - 1977/78 include imputed diobur,uents on aceonut of debt relief already agreed eitb the Pukiutan Aid Cssos-tis.
I/ Including e-ra     end nani,einsa
3/   Ineludang c-rnteets md     f-or debt relief.
N Ret of debt relief
B -rdep nD eri        s f-   exports ixolding IE and wo  rkers' rmittauses.
Soutb Ania Depsrissent
October 20, 1977



- 22 -                   ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of December 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                       US$ Million
Credit                                         Amount     (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower        Purpose        Bank  TW   IDA     Undisbursed
Sixty-eight loans and credits
fully disbursed /a                          537.5     426.0
621     1969   Pakistan      Railways          14.5       --           0.7
177     1970   Pakistan      Industrial
Development
(IDBP)           __        18.7         0.9
206    1970   Pakistan       Engineering
Education        --         4.0         0.9
213    1970   Pakistan       Power
Distribution      --       23.0         1.5
422    1973   Pakistan       Karachi Port III   --        18.0         3.7
961    1974   Pakistan       Industrial
Investment      25.0        -           4.3
466    1974   Pakistan       Flood Rehab-
ilitation        --        35.0         0.5
988    1974   Pakarab        Multan
Fertilizer      Fertilizer       35.0       --           0.6
492    1974   Pakistan       Karachi Port IV    -         16.0        12.3
510    1974   Pakistan       Telecommuni-
cations III      --        36.0        10.0
1107    1975   SNGPL          Gas Pipeline IV   60.0       --          14.0
546    1975   Pakistan       Industrial
Development
(NDFC)           --       30.0          9.1



ANNEX II
- 23 -
Loan or                                                         US$ Million
Credit                                          Amount      (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower        Purpose        Bank   TW     IDA   Undisbursed
1208    1976   Pakistan      Power
Transmis-
sion                  50.0      -        48.9
620    1976   Pakistan       Seed                           23.0        22.7
1326    1976   PICIC          Industrial
Development      25.0                     22.7
630    1976   Pakistan      Lahore Water II                 26.6        25.9
648    1976   Pakistan       Irrigation and
Drainage                       14.0       13.3
1366    1977   Pakistan      Livestock                10.0               10.0
1372/
684    1977   Pakistan      Railways          35.0          25.0        60.0
678    1977   Pakistan      Education                       15.0        14.9
683    1977   Pakistan       Flood Reha-
bilitation                     40.0       26.7
751    1977   Pakistan      Hill Farming /b                 (3.0)       (3.0)
TOTAL                                     732.0  60.0  750.4
of which has been repaid                  320.2         12.9
TOTAL now outstanding                     411.8  60.0  737.5
Amount sold                 23.3
of which has been repaid    22.3            1.0   --
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /c                                410.8  60.0  737.5
Total Undisbursed                          77.3  58.9  167.4        303.6
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly
for projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken
over by Bangladesh.
lb   Not yet effective and not included in totals.
/c   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 24 -                  ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1977)
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor              Type of Business       Loan     Equity   Total
1958   Steel Corp. of Pak.
Ltd                    Rolled Steel Products    0.63       --     0.63
1959   Adamjee Industries
Ltd                    Textiles                 0.75       --     0.75
1962   Gharibwal Cement       Cement
1965   Industries Ltd                                  5.25      0.42    5.67
1963-
1969-                        Development
1975   PICIC                  Financing                 --      0.52     0.52
1965   Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles                  1.95      --      1.95
1965   Packages Ltd           Paper Products           2.31      0.84    3.15
1967-  Pakistan Paper
1976   Corp. Ltd              Paper                    5.38      2.02    7.40
1969   Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.         Fertilizers              1.00     2.92     3.92
1969   Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd              Pulp and Paper           5.60     0.63     6.23
Total Gross Commitments                        22.87      7.35   30.22
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                    17.99     0.90   18.89
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               4.88     6.45    11.33
Undisbursed                                     0.05       -     0.05



ANNEX II
- 25 -
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan No. 548         Tarbela Dam:  US$25.0 Million Loan of July 10. 1968;
Effective Date: August 2, 1968; Closing Date:
December 31. 1977
The Loan was intended for residual financing, and disbursements
began in March 1975. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction
of the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-June 1974,
the main embankment had been completed to full ..g, and the first
impoundment began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties
were encountered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of
the tunnels necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the
tunnels and outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the
Indus Basin and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were
made by a number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the
cost of repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered
further damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has
now been redesigned and repaired, and operated satisfactorily during the 1977
irrigation season. The permanent solution for Stilling Basin 4 is still under
discussion. From 1975 through 1977, irrigation requirements have generally
been met. Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Plunge
pool development has endangered the flipbucket of the service spillway, and
additional protection works for this spillway must be completed before July
1978.
Loan No. 621        Ninth Railway:   US$14.5 Million Loan of June 26, 1969;
Effective Date: August 28, 1969; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and             Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:   May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
As of December 31, 1977 the Ninth Railway Project was nearly com-
pleted and disbursements amounted to US$12.7 million. The main outstanding
item is construction of the first stage of a new marshalling yard at Pipri,
near Karachi. The location and des1gn of this yard was changed twice follow-
ing protracted investigations and negotiations between various agencies and
planning authorities with a view to reconciling urban planning and railway
marshalling objectives. The Tenth Railway Project became effective on May 9,
1977; procurement under the Project is proceeding satisfactorily although
there have been no disbursements so far. PR's 1976/77 traffic level and
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 26 -
financial results were adversely affected by the severe flooding in August
1976, a sharp drop in wheat imports and political unrest in the first half
of 1977. Financial performance for 1977/78 is expected to improve substan-
tially as a result of a 20% increase in passenger fares and a 12.5% increase
in freight rates effective July 1, 1977 and efforts to hold down working
expenses. PR's performance of covenants is generally satisfactory.
Credit No. 206      Engineering Education:   US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970: Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. The new physical facilities are in partial use and are expected to
be in full use by June 1978. An extension of the Closing Date until December
1978, has been agreed to allow for execution of technical assistance and other
qualitative improvement programs.
Credit No. 213       Power Transmission and Distribution:  US$23.0 Million
Credit of August 13. 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Physical construction of the Grid Substation and associated equip-
ment of this Project is underway and can now be considered to be 60 percent
complete. Physical completion of the project is expected during the first
quarter of 1978 and disbursements should end at approximately the same time.
Credit No. 422      Third Karachi Port:   US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30. 1979
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Four-fifths of Credit 422 has been committed and disbursed. Con-
struction of the Juna Bunder Berths, having experienced further slippage of
about two months during 1977, and of the Napier Mole Road Bridge is about
ten months behind schedule, with completion now expected by early 1979.
Construction of the oil berth (Credit 492) commenced in January 1977, some
27 months behind the program prepared at the time of appraisal. All of the
permanent piling had been driven and most of the concrete decking laid by
the end of 1977. The causeway at the shore end of the trunkway has been com-
pleted and pipework to the jettyhead is under test. Consultants have prepared
contract documents for channel dredging works and dredger procurement, and
these are soon to be sent to prequalified contractors. Disbursements through
December 31, 1971 totalled US$3.7 million.



ANNEX II
- 27 -
Port efficiency and productivity still appear to be declining.
Because of poor maintenance, as much- as 70% of KPT's cargo handling equip-
ment is in need of repair. The Association has stressed to KPT and GOP
the need to strengthen the operational and financial management of the Port.
A number of agreements reached at the time of credit negotiations respecting
management improvements have not yet been satisfactorily implemented.
Loan No. 961         Industrial Investment:  US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974: Effective Date: April 3. 1974;
Closing Date: June 30. 1978
The Loan was made to the Government and is administered by PICIC.
The loan has been fully committed and disbursements amounted to $20.7 million
on December 31, 1977.
Loan No. 1326       Development Finance Company - PICIC:   US$25.0 million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29. 1976; Closing Date: December 31. 1980
As of December 31, 1977, subprojects for US$12.5 million had been
approved by the Bank. One previous loan to PICIC has not yet been fully
disbursed: Loan 961 should be fully disbursed by the closing date, June 30,
1978. PICIC remains a capable institution, but its operations and collections
have been adversely affected by the recent political difficulties in Pakistan.
Its long-term prospects will depend mainly on developments in the political/
economic environments, including the textile sector, which accounts for a
large portion of PICIC's outstandings.
Loan No. 988        Multan Fertilizer:   US$35.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1974; Effective Date: July 30, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Delays and escalating prices for civil works and, to a lesser
extent, for foreign equipment have raised the total project cost above the
appraisal estimate by about 84% (US$88 million). Construction delays have
been due to a shortage of civil contractors' capacity in Pakistan and to
late deliveries of critical equipment. Project completion is currently
forecast to be about 18 months longer than the appraisal estimate. The
project's economic return is still close to 28%, because of higher forecast
international fertilizer prices. The company has already obtained US$84
million of the extra financing required, in equity from the Government and
the foreign partner, and in debt from the OPEC Special Fund and local banks.
The remaining US$4 million are in the process of being secured. The pro-
ject's corporate and field management has been strengthened. Craftsmen and
field supervisors from Europe have recently been hired to expedite plant
construction.



- 28 -                   ANNEXL I
Credit No. 510      Third Telecommunications:   US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding reasonably satis-
factory, but is now about 12 months behind schedule. Procurement action for
all the main equipment items is nearing completion, installation of plant
and equipment is making good progress, and about 60% of the additional sub-
scriber's lines are in service. As part of the project, T&T was to have been
reorganized so as to function more effectively along commercial lines and to
have been given a greater degree of autonomoy. This reorganization, important
to improving the efficiency of operation of the sector, has been delayed, but
proposals which appear satisfactory are awaiting final Government approval.
The matter is continuing to be pursued with Government.
Credit No. 546      National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date 17, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
As of December 31, 1977 US$26.6 million of the credit had been com-
mitted and US$20.9 million disbursed. We anticipate that the credit will be
fully committed by June 1978 and fully disbursed by the following March.
Although NDFC is currently a highly profitable and financially stable insti-
tution there are several aspects of its operation which are of concern. The
orientation of NDFC's activities has been toward commercial banking; its
development impact would be improved if it were to redirect its efforts
toward analyzing sector problems in the public industrial sector. Its rapid
expansion has placed considerable strain upon its limited manpower resources
and newly established systems and procedures and while further growth is
projected over the next few years, staffing and systems development may
prove limiting factors.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
All project activities are on schedule although one of the two new
purification and dehydration units will be commissioned in March 1978 instead
of December 1977 as was anticipated earlier. A recent re-estimate of final
project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution systems
authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expenditures
of about US$7.3 million. The Borrower has applied to the Bank for permission
to apply these savings towards equipment and facilities needed for handling
additional gas supplies from the Potwar basin as well as toward several other
items that are required. Some delay has occurred in processing this request
because the Bank is awaiting Government's approval of the project extension.
The consequences of oil and gas developments in Pakistan may lead to a situa-
tion where a much greater quantity of gas will be available than the presently
estimated demand. The management of SNGPL has therefore suggested to GOP
that consideration should be given to the installation of a large fertilizer
plant in SNGPL's area of operations - thereby avoiding any risk of wasteful
flaring of gas associated with oil/condensate production.



ANNEX II
- 29 -
Credit No. 620       Seed ProJect:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Production of prebasic and basic seed, and project coordination
and reporting procedures have improved. Progress of the Seed Corporations'
activities is satisfactory. Three of five consultants to be financed under
the credit are in place and designs for processing plants have been drafted.
Minor amendments to the Development Credit Agreement have been made to
simplify procurement procedures for vehicles and civil works.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage:
US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8. 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Design work and the processing of bidding documents is proceeding
at a reasonable rate under the advice of engineering consultants financed
by UNDP. Part of a management team has been provided by the UK.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 million Third Window Loan
of February 19. 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical construction of the 336-mile transmission line between
Faisalabad (formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and associated equipment will start
in December 1977 with a completion date scheduled for mid-1980. The contract
for consultant engineering and supervision was signed in April 1976 and most
bidding documents for equipment and material have been issued.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
ProJect: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Survey work has begun and the construction colony has been estab-
lished in the project area. Consultants were selected in March 1977 and
began work in May. With their help, the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA), the implementing agency, was expected to begin procurement
by the end of 1977 and to complete project plans and start land acquisition
for construction early this year.
Credit No. 678     Third Education:   US$15.0 million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project which became effective in July 1977, provides facilities
for: (a) primary teacher training, and experiment on adult functional liter-
acy program and related studies; and (b) agricultural education to assist
in developing higher and middle level agricultural manpower, farmer training
and related studies. Project implementation is, on a weighted average,



ANNEX II
- 30 -
about three months behind schedule because of: (a) delays by the Government
in confirming the appointment of consultant architects in the Province of
Sind; and (b) delays in contracting technical assistance for the project. The
Government is addressing these problems and the project appears to be makinlg
progress.
Loan No. 1366-T     Puniab Livestock:  US$10.0 million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31. 1982
Progress has been satisfactory. The first spearhead team, which
will set up Village Associations, is undergoing training. Management of the
Lahore Milk Plant has improved but the Sihala Meat Plant still has cash
flow problems.
Credit No. 683       Flood Damage Restoration:   $40 million Credit of
March 8, 1977; Effective Date: April 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Repair of all major breaches in protective bunds under this Project
were completed by the Provinces before the start of the 1977 monsoon season.
However, other components of the project have lagged behind schedule. Only
35% of the civil works to be carried out by Mechanized Construction of Pak-
istan (MCP), the prime contractor, and the Provinces had been completed by
September 1977. In July 1977, the Association agreed to amend the Credit
Agreement to permit the Provinces, in addition to MCP, to be reimbursed for
civil works. There have also been serious delays in ordering spares and
equipment, due to difficulties in obtaining local currency cover.



ANNEX III
- 31 -
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The Tarbela Dam Project is part of the program of works
resulting from the agreement between India and Pakistan
concerning the division of the waters of the Indus Basin.
In 1960, India and Pakistan signed the Indus Waters Treaty
and the Indus Basin Development Fund was established to
help finance the construction of "replacement" works. In
1967, the Indus Basin Special Study confirmed the tech-
nical and economic feasibility of the Tarbela Dam Project
(paragraph 19-31).
(b) Date of completion of Negotiations: January 27, 1978
(c) Planned Date of Effectiveness: around April 30, 1978
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions:
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association
by December 31, 1978 a program for the operation and
maintenance of the dam reservoir and other structures
and for their regular inspection (paragraph 49).
(b) Following completion of the UNDP Indus Basin Planning
Study, Pakistan shall discuss with the Association
revision to its development plans based on the find-
ings of the Study and use its best efforts to imple-
ment programs to increase the effectiveness with which
water from Tarbela is used in accordance with a time-
table mutually acceptable to Pakistan and the Association
(paragraph 54).
Section IV: Tarbela Dam Proiect - Required Repairs and Additional
Works
Stilling Basins
1.        Damage to the stilling basins was discovered in August 1975, after
a change in the flow pattern in stilling basin 3 had been observed. It was



ANNEX III
- 32 -
established that a substantial portion of the floor of the stilling basin
had been removed and deep erosion of the underlying rock had occurred. Sub-
sequent inspections also indicated massive undercutting of the foundations
of the center wall between stilling basins 3 and 4. Under the program of
repairs, the eroded foundations were stabilized and backfilled with concrete.
The splitter walls in each basin were extended by 40 feet to improve the
discharge condition with the stilling basins. New slabs for the basin floor
were provided to replace those lost.
2.        Renewed damage to the stilling basins was detected in April 1976
after a short period of operation and a program to repair and reinforce the
structures was drawn up. Priority was assigned to work on stilling basin 3 in
order to have it ready for use as an irrigation outlet by May 1, 1977; only
minor works were carried out on stilling basin 4, which was held in readiness
as a standby. The works to stilling basin 3 included the placement of a post-
tensioned anchor system to secure the concrete floor of the basin to the rock
foundation; a 20 inch fiber concrete overlay; a system of drainage channels;
an air trough on tunnel 3; and the installation of measuring instruments be-
neath the stilling basin floor. These works were completed on schedule by the
end of April 1977. Since that time stilling basin 3 has been used on a number
of occassions for the release of irrigation water; its performance under ope-
rating conditions has so far been satisfactory.
3.        After the problems with the stilling basins in 1975/76, a review of
the existing design of the basins, including work on hydraulic scale models,
was started to investigate the possibility of amending the design to improve
the basins' dependability in regular service. The model studies are being
carried out at the Irrigation Research Institute (IRI) at Lahore and Nandipur
in Pakistan, at the Colorado State University, Fort Collins, USA, and at
Sogreah Hydraulic Laboratory, Grenoble, France. The main alternatives being
considered are converting stilling basin 4 to a flip bucket, a proposal
favored by WAPDA mainly on the grounds that inspection and repair would be
facilitated, or reinforcing the basin in the same manner as stilling basin 3.
Another possible modification would be the addition of raised end cills and
bulkheads on the basins for ease in dewatering and inspection. Some important
questions remain to be resolved before a final decision on these alternatives
can be taken, particularly relating to the shape of the flip bucket, the ex-
tent of downstream scour and the scour protection required. The effects of
possible spray on the powerhouse and switchyard will also require consideration.
Spillways
4.        In July 1976 there was a very large rockfall from the excavated rock
face on the right (west) side of the service spillway plunge pool, and several
subsequent falls occurred in the next two weeks. Repair work was started
immediately. Unloading (trimming back) of the rock slopes on the west side
of the plunge pool was completed in April 1977. A gap in the rock at the out-
let to the plunge pool was widened and deepened. Model studies were carried
out by IRI to test possible solutions to check the erosion.



ANNEX III
- 33 -
5.        During operation of the service spillway in July and August 1977,
a strong clockwise back current eroded deeply into the banks of the plunge
pool to the right of the spillway. In addition to the general erosion into
the bank, localized erosion out-flanked the right hand edge of the protective
wall provided in front of the spillway flip bucket. An inspection of the
spillway chute and flip bucket revealed that a number of construction joints
had widened, some by up to 1/4 of an inch, and the bucket had rotated
very slightly to the right and downstream.
6.        A meeting of WAPDA officials and consultants took place at Tarbela
in late August 1977 to discuss possible remedial measures to the spillway
problem and a program of repair works was drawn up and reviewed at a meeting
in London in September 1977. Further discussions were held at Tarbela in
early December 1977. The works to be undertaken this season (1977/78) are
primarily to maintain the integrity of the service spillway for passing
monsoon season discharges in mid-1978. During this period studies of the
long-term, permanent solution will be undertaken; thus it is envisaged that
additional works will be carried out in 1978/79 to augment and consolidate
the initial measures currently being implemented. The present program, which
should be completed by June 1978 in order that the spillway can be ready to
handle the monsoon season floods, comprises:
(a)  Placement of a rollcrete buttress (lean concrete placed by
earth moving methods) in front of the service spillway flip
bucket protection wall. The outer sloping face of the roll-
crete buttress would be faced with five feet of structural
concrete;
(b) Extension of the rollcrete buttress to the right of the
flip bucket to fill completely the cavity developed where
the rock is most extensively eroded into the fault zone
material;
(c) Construction of a rollcrete spur extending in a downstream
direction from the rollcrete buttress at the right of the
spillway bucket, clear of the jet impact zone. The design
of this spur is sublect to minor refinements in regard to
positioning, size and erosion protection methods for the
nose;
(d) Placement of a rollcrete dike at the left side of the plunge
pool to prevent further development of the embayment which
has arisen on this side from circulating flows;
(e) Installation of post-tensioned anchors from the right side
of the flip bucket foundation, and running in an upstream
and slightly angled direction so as to tie the rock founda-
tion together;
(f) Repair and restoration of all joints in the spillway
structure with fiber concrete;



ANNEX III
- 34 -
(g) Restoration of the eroded natural rock ridge in the Dal Darra
Channel to maintain 1977 tailwater levels, using rollcrete
with structural facing;
(h) Rock shattering at the outlet of the plunge pool to the Dal
Darra Channel over the width of the spillway down to 1020
level, together with some limited slope reforming below 1,300
on the right side of the pool exit; and
(i) Drainage holes from a gallery to be formed in the rollcrete
buttress at the right of the flip bucket to relieve seepage
pressures behind the buttress.
In addition to the foregoing, the auxiliary spillway plunge pool
requires some small erosion protection work.
Sinkholes
7.        Sinkholes in the main blanket were discovered in 1974 and were
treated by increasing the thickness of the blanket. A program of side scan
sonar survey was also set up and has been maintained to keep records of sink-
holes, and any new reoccurring sinkholes are being treated by barge dumping
of filter material.
8.        A sinkhole-like depression was recorded by the sonar surveys on
the upstream face of the main dam, located between the center and the right
abutment of the dam at an elevation of about 1,340 feet. This was inspected
in May-June 1977 after drawing down the reservoir. The inspection confirmed
that the depression was a sinkhole about 6 feet deep and about 80 sq. ft. in
area. Following the local removal of rip-rap and the placing of a concrete
collar, a lined shaft was excavated, revealing that the line of the sinkhole
was in a downstream direction passing out of the area of the shaft. Explora-
tory holes were drilled, bentonite grout was injected into the sinkhole, the
rip-rap was replaced and measuring instruments were installed in the vicinity.
The work was completed by the end of June 1977 before the seasonal rise in
the reservoir. Concurrently, the whole of the upstream face of the main
embankment dam was surveyed. Three areas of depression in the rip-rap were
located close to the sinkholes, where voids existed beneath the underside of
the rip-rap. These voids were back-filled after the installation of settle-
ment plates. Only minor sinkholes have been detected since that time.
Program of Future Activities
9.        The need to have the service spillway operational before next June
requires that this work be given top priority. The Contractor began work on
the spillway repairs in October and is so far on schedule. An access road to
the spillway has been constructed; a plant to make rollcrete has been built;
the plunge pool dewatered; and cleaning up of foundations is in hand. Approxi-
mately 500,000 cubic yards of rollcrete and 80,000 cubic yards of structural



ANNEX III
- 35-
concrete facing are to be put in place during the coming months. Other mis-
cellaneous work on the spillway chutes, approach channels and auxiliary spill-
way plunge pool is also to be completed before June 1, 1978.
10.       As indicated earlier, the further works to be undertaken on still-
ing basin 4 are still under study. Since the Contractor cannot undertake any
major works on the basins until the emergency work on the service spillway
is completed there will be time, before a decision needs to be made on the
various alternatives, in which to obtain further operating experience with
stilling basin 3 in its reinforced state and to complete necessary additional
model tests regarding the shape of the flip bucket, study the protection works
necessary for scour, and to consider the possible effects of spray on the
powerhouse and switchyard.
11.       Taking into account the outstanding works on the spillways and
stilling basins and the seasonal constraints imposed by the need to satisfy
flood and irrigation water releases, an overall period of at least two to
three years seems in prospect before the Tarbela Dam Project will be finally
completed. However, irrigation and power benefits are already being obtained
from the project and, barring any further unforeseen developments, will be
increasingly realized during this period.



Section V                                                                                                                                           ANNEX II
ESTIMATED RESOURCES OF THE FUND AND COST OF THE PROJECT
COMPARISON OF NOVEMBER 30. 1977 ESTIMATES WITH THOSE OF MAY 1975
Foreign Currency            Local Currency                 Total
Resources & Costs          Resources & Costs          Resources & Costs
(US$ Mtilion) )          (00$S Million)              (U0$ million)
CAT  TS)         CC)            C~~   ~   ~~~D)  CE)_     (F)
1975          1977         1975          1977         1975         1977
Estimated Indue Basin Development Fund - Remaining Balance                                                339 V         350 _/8/      -             -           339          350
Contributions to Tarbela Develop-ent Fund:
Forein Currenov            Local Corrency
(Million)                  (U     MilonY
(A            (B)          (C        (D)
1975        1977           1975      1977
(a)  Untied                             73           73
(b)  Tied                               76±-         76 -/
(c)  Bank Loan                          25           25
(d)  Cover-net of Pakistan              -            -            613 -l/    733 
(e)  Special Contributions under           6/          7/             5/6/         5/
Supplemental Agreeoent             39-         37- -            9--     14 -                         213          211           622           747         S35           958
Add or deduct net effect of change in eachange rates on original contributions                              3             3         -166          -189         -163         -186
Add Accumulated Iccome                                                                                      8             8            -                          8             8
Total Resources                                                                                           563           572-         456           558        1 019        1.130
Cost of the Project 1-/-/                                                                                 511           523          608           637        1,119        1,160
Coot of Repair- & Additional Works 9- -/-Y
Repairs                                                                                               35            27           15            24           50           51
Additional Works                                                                                      21            44            9            25           30           69
Further modifications to Stilling Basins                                                              -             34           -             29           -            63
Reedital Works to Spiliways                                                                           -             83           -             47           -           130
Interest paid on special plant advance and delay in repaymant of total special plant advsnce               -7            -7           -             -            -7           -7
Increase (or reductIon) in cost of the Project as a result of changes in exchange rates                    12            12         -176          -204         -164         -192
Total Costs                                                                                               572           716 -        456           558        1028         1274
Estimated Shortfall                                                                                         9           144--
1/ Subject to finali-ation of obligations of the Indue Basin Development Fund.
2/ Eicludes US$8 million, being payment up to May 2, 1969, for Tarbela Preliminary Works which were met frso the Indus Basin Development Fund.
3/ The French contribution was inoreased to FF167 following devaluation in 1969 in order to maintatn the original US dollar equivalent of France's
contribution. Includes unused balance of approximately $3 million originally pledged by Canada an tied contribution.
4/ Amounts of Tied Aid cantributed.
5/ Estimated total local currency contribution of Govarnment of Pakistan.
6/ Special Contribution at inception of Supplemental Agreement August 1975.
7/ Revaluation of Special Contribution at June 1977, as a result of changes in eachange rates.
8/ Includes allowances for adjustments on original and Special Contributions arising from realignment of eachange rates since December, 1971
which at June 1977 amounted to $6 million equivalent (Indus Fund $7 million and Tarbela Fund 5(1) million).
9/ To be revised periodically as work proceeds. Making an allowance for contingencies, the additional foreign eackange reqiurementa of the Project
are estimated for planning purpases at $150 million.
10/ Eicludea any allowance for recoveries from Insurers. Eacludes amy adjustments of Contractor's valuation of costs of repair.
1I/ Includes provision for 1977/78 Remedial Measures at Spillways and tentativs estimates for completion of Permanent Solution in 1978/79. Excludes
further espenditure on sinkhole trearment to be borne by WAPDA as a maintenance cost.     Includes further sapenditure on right abktment seepage
control measures. Includes provision for conversion of Stilling Basin 4 to a flip bucket and raised end cill and piers for maintenance
bulkheads on Basin 3 as currently proposed by WAPDA.



IBRD 13402
620                     660                70074                       FEBRUARY 1978
PAKI STAN                                                ussR.           1ICHINA
-   PRIMARY ROADS                  -J            i      .-Lo3
SECONDARY ROADS
-|-I-1- RAILWAYS                                      .     /
AIRPORTS                                     <      '
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                            |J A M M U
-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                         AND
-~     RIVERS                                            D      ( ar" .   t...;  .
Pesh war 
SLA 4AB
KA\SHMIR
0     100  200   300   400                                    Rowalpindi
K I LOMETERS                                                   f 
(   ~~~~  Khushb 
\ CD  ~'DI.            Sargod 
w ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~          d 
_30o /-}     ;<2                A        )       2'          /!1z>9-q °^3
k                    ¢ ~~~~~~~~ KQ~~~~uetta ol
1 Kalat                     a J Bawolpur/  N DI A
S N~~~ 
I RAN ))                 Jacobabod......
IRAN
I     4~~~ /kku              U.S...  R      Apprco.imste
Line of Contrd
Bela             S I N Df )
/ t  tg  ffi  ~~~~~~ iJ     +~Hyderabad     .<&                            t 
I  N   D   I A  '
KARACHI     Tott*
. .  z        :                    e        .       l   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BGLADESH
-24-       Arabian   se                 '                   24O- Arabian Sea           Bay
of
Bengal
626             a                                70°






IBRD 13403
/  /  .--   FEBRUARY 19/8
4- \    *-     5w                    ..       ,  A \Kolkoi
/       O~~~~~~~F
WARSAAM      TRBELA
m  DAM ~  ~   ~   ~   AMU      N
* j78To~~~~~~~~~rbelo 
..........-  Peshawar .t\
/  Attock  ISLAMABAD   J A M M U  A
Rowolpind *      K A S H M I R\
\  tKus obgorh  MANGLA
KALABAGH                 DAM  *
RASUL         *   /
/NDUS AND TARBELA PROJECS     00 4MARALA
LOCATION            -0               80  I2OKILOMETEDR
I | / ~~~~~~~~~~BALLOKI 
AUNSA]  \   Sl    /          _  y   <  ~~~~~~~~~~EROZEPORE
\00  Av7          ~~~~~~~~~~~SULE ;; t4   \
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f, -p h. 1)  p,,., 9 °  1h,,n1oasO ¢e a 
/  ID   _  f    /   *-       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,,rId 8fr-k ,rl V.f1 --t rl f,,ru 7n
y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- Borage  ,-y
/          ~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN        Conols      ~     I
INDUS AND TARBELA PROJECTS            0   0   40~     0IE
L O CAT I ON N                  0    8   1KLMTR



