OPFIC           SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 51 PAK
DOCUMENTS
Special Action Project Agreement
(Tarbela Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
and
PAKISTAN WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated                             , 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 51 PAK
SPECIAL ACTION PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    'IUA&dJ        Z                 , 1980,
between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of
the Special Action Account established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (hereinafter
called the Administrator) and PAKISTAN WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY established and existing under the laws of the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called WAPDA).
WHEREAS by the Special Action Credit Agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Special Action Credit Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administrator has
agreed to make to the Borrower a Special Action Credit (herein-
after called the Special Action Credit) on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Special Action Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that WAPDA agrees to undertake such obligations
towards the Administrator as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS WAPDA, in consideration of the Administrator's enter-
ing into the Special Action Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Preamble to this Agreement, in the Special Action Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions applicable to such Special
Action Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WAPDA shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Special Actioa Credit Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist WAPDA in carrying out
the Project, WAPDA shall, except as the Administrator may other-
wise agree, employ consultants and experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Administrator and WAPDA.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods required for operation and maintenance
and which are to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) WAPDA undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insu-
rance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by WAPDA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Administrator may otherwise agree, WAPDA
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit to be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) WAPDA shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall
reasonably request.
(b) WAPDA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit, and to disclose their use
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Administrator's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Administrator at
regular intervals all such information as the Administrator shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure


﻿-3-
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) WAPDA shall enable the Administrator's representatives
to examine plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property, equipment, records and documents with respect to the
Project as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between WAPDA and
the Administrator, WAPDA shall prepare and furnish to the Adminis-
trator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Admin-
istrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by WAPDA and the Administrator
of their respective obligations under the Special Action Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Special
Action Credit.
Section 2.06. Except as the Administator may otherwise agree,
WAPDA shall present to the Association for its review by March 31
of each year a detailed annual program reflecting budget proposals
and proposed expenditures for operation and maintenance of the
Project during the subsequent fiscal year, including capital
expenditures for permanent operation and maintenance facilities.
Section 2.07. (a) WAPDA shall at the request of the Adminis-
trator, exchange views with the Administrator with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Special Action Credit.
(b) WAPDA shall promptly inform the Administrator of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Special Action Credit, or the performance by WAPDA of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of WAPDA
Section 3.01. WAPDA shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and


﻿-4-
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial, administrative and engineering practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. (a) WAPDA shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and the right to carry on its operations
and to acquire and retain ownership of all lands and maintain
and renew all interests in land and other properties, and take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
(b) WAPDA shall at all times operate and maintain its
projects, machinery, equipment and other property, and make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with
sound engineering practices.
(c) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
WAPDA shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its property or assets required for the efficient operation of
the Project, except in the normal course of business.
.Section 3.03. WAPDA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Administrator, for insurance against such ris%s and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. WAPDA shall maintain separate records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. WAPDA shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case
not later than twelve months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such


﻿-5-
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reason-
ably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other
information concerning such accounts and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Special Action Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Administrator and of WAPDA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Special Action Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(ii) September 1, 1993.
(b) If the Special Action Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Administrator, shall promptly
notify WAPDA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Special Action Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-


﻿-6-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action
Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For WAPDA:
Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority
WAPDA House
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
WAPDA
Lahore
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of WAPDA may be taken or executed by its
Chairman or such other person or persons as WAPDA shall designate
in writing, and WAPDA shall furnish to the Administrator suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION
ACCOUNT established with funds
contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By         J
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of the Special Action Credit Agreement and except as
provided in Part C hereof, goods for operation and maintenance
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, WAPDA shall prepare and forward to the
Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Administrator
shall reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. WAPDA shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice as the Administrator may request so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for the
imported goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of
other goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluaton of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Adminis-
trator that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the. c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If


﻿- 10 -
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Equipment and materials with contract price not exceeding
the equivalent of $100,000 each may be procured in accordance
with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Administrator, provided that the aggregate expenditure of
items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, WAPDA shall furnish to the
Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further mo-dification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, WAPDA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other infor-
mation as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform WAPDA and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 11 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, WAPDA shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Administra-
tor of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request. The Administrator shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform WAPDA and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, WAPDA shall inform the
Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform WAPDA and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  \ A,      day of  /AL    .
198 1L.
FOR SECRETARY


