Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19454
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(LOAN 3388-CM)
June 21, 1999
Rural Development 2
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
The CFAF is pegged to the French Franc. Following the devaluation of the CFAF on January 12, 1994,
the ratio changed from FF 1 for 50CFAF to FF 1 for CFAF 100.
US$1.00 = CFAF 283 (1991)
US$1.00 = CFAF 263 (1992)
US$1.00 = CFAF 288 (1993)
US$1.00 = CFAF 536 (1994)
US$1.00 = CFAF 512 (1995)
US$1.00 = CFAF 512 (1996)
US$1.00= CFAF 583 (1997)
US$1.00 = CFAF 590 (1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 01 - June 31
Food Security Project: Jan. 01 - December 31
Vice President     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director      Serge Michailof
Sector Manager      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Staff Member      Jean Delion



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADIE                Association pour le Developpement de l'Information Environnementale
APCU                Aerial Pest Control Unit
CAA                 Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (External)
Debt Agency
CFAF                CFA Franc
CFC                 Credit Foncier du Cameroun
FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organization
FIMAC               Fund for Micro-Projects in Agriculture and Community Development (Fonds
d'Intervention pour les Micro-Realisations Agricoles et Communautaires)
FONADER             National Rural Development Fund
FSAR I              First Rural Development Fund Project
FSAR II             Second Rural Development Fund Project
FSP                 Food Security Project
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                 International Development Association
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRAD                Institut de Recherche Agricole pour le Developpement
MESIRES             Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
MINAGRI             Ministry of Agriculture
MINASCOF            Ministry of Soc. Affairs and Feminine Condition
MINAT               Ministry of Territorial Administration
MINSANTE            Ministry of Health
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
PPDR                Small-Scale Rural Development Activities (Petits Projets de Developpement
Rural)
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP                 Structural Adjustment Program
SNAR                National Early Warning Agency (Service National d'Alerte Rapide)
SODECOTON           Societe de Developpement du Coton
SOWEDA              South West Development Association
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
UTAVA               Aerial Pest Control Unit (Unite de Traitements Agricoles par Voie Aerienne)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents
1.     PREFACE                                         .1.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY .1
Project Objectives.ii
Achievement of Objectives .iii
Micro-project component.iii
Locust control component .                                                             iii
Early Warning System component .iv
Market infrastructure component ...........................Iv..............I..,.,.,.,.,,,,.,,..I .,,  iv
Pilot nutrition education component .iv
Major Factors affecting the Project .iv
Project Sustainability.v
Bank Performance.v
Borrower Performance                                   .v
Assessment of outcome .vi
Future operations .vi
Lessons learnt and recommendations .vi
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                    .1
INTRODUCTION.1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                   .2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                .3
Micro-project component                                .3
Locust control component                                .4
Early Warning System .5
Market infrastructure component .5
Nutrition education component                             .6
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                           .6
Factors Not Subject to Borrower's Control                      .6
Factors Generally Subject to Borrower 's Control                  .6
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency's Control             .7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABLITY                                  .7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ....................8...................................                 8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............9
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .11
4. PART 1: STATISTICAL TABLES .13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .15
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS ................................................ 15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .                                        16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .... 17
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .                                                      17



TABLE 8 A-A: PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT ..................................................                                                  19
TABLE 8 A-B: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY (BANK FUNDING ONLY) ..................................................                               1 9
TABLE 8 B: PROJECT FINANCING .................................................. 20
TABLE 9: EcONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .................................................. 20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .................................................. 28
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENT ....................................                                  .............. 33
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..................................................                                                  33
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..................................................                                                      34
5.   APPENDIX A: MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE .....................................................                                                   35
6.     APPENDIX  B: BORROWER  CONTRIBUT'ION  TO  THE  ICR  ..................................................... 43
7. APPENDIX C: MISCELLANEOUS .54
8.     APPENDIX  D: MAPS ................                                                  ,58
Map no. IBRD 302'13



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(LOAN 3388-CM)
1. PREFACE
1.1    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Food Security Project in
Cameroon for which loan 3388-CM in the amount of US$23.0 million equivalent was approved on
July 02, 1991 and made effective on May 27, 1992. An amount of US$10.6 million equivalent was
cancelled on June 10, 1997. In addition to the Bank loan, the Project also benefited from a Japanese
Government Grant (US$5.1 million equivalent).
1.2    The loan was closed on December 31, 1998, six months earlier than the initially planned date
of June 30, 1999 except for one component, the locust control, which was closed on May 31, 1999. It
is expected to be fully disbursed, and the last disbursement is expected to take place before June 30,
1999.
1.3   Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission which took place in
Nov/Dec 1998. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own
evaluation of the project's execution and submitting it to the ICR mission in November 1998.
1.4    A first draft of he ICR was prepared during the ICR mission by Jean Delion, Angeline Mani,
Georges Minang, Clotilde Ndomb and Ndjebet Yaka Helene of the Resident Mission in Yaounde.
This draft was later consolidated by Jean Delion, Aly Sy and Thierry Brun.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(LOAN 3388-CM)
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY
2.1    The Cameroon Food Security Project (Loan No. 3388-CM) was the first of its kind in the
Africa Region. It was initiated after the Government adopted a revised food security strategy with
Bank assistance in a context of severe deterioration of the economy. This new strategy emphasized
the removal of supply and demand constraints in order to generate agricultural growth, which was
considered to be the basic factor for food security. To address these constraints, the project aimed at
supporting income generating, social and infrastructure micro-projects and at increasing food
marketing efficiency.
2.2    The Food Security Project (FSP) was also an integral part of the structural adjustment
strategy and was intended to alleviate the negative impact of adjustment measures on the population's
accessibility to food, and foster participation of the poor in the growth process. The Loan amount
was US$23.00 million equivalent. The Project benefited also from a Japanese Grant (US$5.1 million
equivalent).
Project Objectives
2.3    The overall objective was poverty reduction. The general strategy was to improve food
security through capacity building and increasing the incomes of targeted segments of the rural
population.  The project outputs were:  a) to create employment opportunities and raise the
purchasing power of rural groups, particularly women; b) to reduce the impact of locust attacks on
food production in northern regions; c) to increase the efficiency of staple foods marketing, and; d) to
test nutrition interventions aimed at improving the dietary practices of vulnerable groups.
2.4   Implementation was carried out under five components:
a) micro-projects: Entrusted to the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI), this component was to
finance income-generating micro-projects prepared by farmer groups at the grass roots level
(including commercial, non-commercial activities and micro-infrastructures). In the SAR, it was
to absorb 52% of the total project funding;
b) locust control: Entrusted to the Aerial Pest Control Unit (UTAVA), this component was to
reduce the impact of locust attacks by aerial spraying in the North and extreme North of the
country;
c) early warning system: Entrusted to MINAGRI, this component was to establish a fully
operational Early Warning Market and Information Agency (SNAR) on food shortages;



iii
d) market infrastructure: This component, entrusted to the "Credit Foncier du Cameroon"
(CFC), was to build and renovate market facilities in secondary cities and rural communes; and
e) pilot nutrition education: Entrusted to the Ministry of Health (MINSANTE), this component
was to implement a pilot nutrition education program for vulnerable groups.
Achievement of Objectives
2.5    The involvement of many agencies and sectors in the FSP, and the absence of a reliable
monitoring and evaluation system for every project componen, make it difficult to get a fully accurate
measure of achievement. Overall, project objeatives were only partially achieved but many lessons
were learned, on the ways to mobilize community participation, on the need to apply market based
interest rates even i:n poverty alleviation projects such as this one. The Bank applied these lessons in
other countries in similar projects, and the borrower will apply them in forthcoming food security and
rural finance projects in preparation with IFAD support
Micro-project compionent
2.6    This component partially achieved its objective of raising the purchasing power of rural
groups and creating employment opportunities. However from a micro-finance standpoint, poor
results were achieved.
2.7    Within MINAGRI, the component was implemented by the Fund for Micro-Projects in
Agriculture and Coimmunity Development (FINMAC). By providing training and extending credit to
2,906 groups (39% more than initially targeted), the component had a positive impact on rural
employment and incomes. Of the 20,206 beneficiaries involved in these groups, 43% were women.
FIMAC covered all the 52 districts of the coantry. Based on the internal rates of return (IRR)
generated by the "modeles de reference" prepared by FIMAC, most of the activities financed under
this component have been generally more profitable than what was initially forecast in the SAR,
therefore bringing substantial financial gains to the beneficiary groups.
2.8    From a micro-finance standpoint, however, FIMAC experienced a low recovery rate (about
73%) for the first generation loans. The component did not achieve its objective regarding the
experimental micro-credit fund for cash-generating activities; this fund was never implemented.
However, before the end of the project, recycled funds were transferred into trust funds managed by
nearly 300 private micro-finance institutions (MFIs). Groups who benefited from first generation
loans are being linked to these MFIs who will use the trust funds to finance second generation micro-
projects. FIMAC has been able to link 81% of these beneficiary groups to MFIs. 11% were due to
be linked in March/April 1999, bringing the total linkage rate to 92%.
2.9    This component used US$1.9 million equivalent from the Japanese grant to finance technical
assistance, training and the first micro-projects from 1991 to 1994.
Locust control com;7onent
2.10   Achievements were negligible for this component. UTAVA has been constantly plagued by
procurement problems and was able to acquire only one plane at the very end of the project. Its
capacity to carry out aerial spraying has been very limited throughout the project. However UTAVA
was restructured and, as a consequence, its wage bill was cut down making it more cost effective.
Spare parts were bought to repair two planes and personnel were trained overseas in pest control and
aeronautical mechanics. A few rural communities in the Northern provinces were trained in the use



iv
of satellite Global Positioning System (GPS) in order to test their ability to alert intervention teams in
case of locust attacks. This training was a success and UTAVA is planning to expand it in the
coming years.
Early Warning System component
2.11   This component achieved its objective in a substantial way. Its main financing source was
the Japanese Grant and, from 1991 to 1997, US$3.2 million equivalent was used to fund technical
assistance, training, equipment and operational expenses. The Early Warning System has been fully
operational since 1997. Information on prices and volume of staple foods available in 56 rural and
urban markets nationwide has been provided through a monthly publication, rural radio programs and
postings in markets. In the three provinces most exposed to food shortages (Far North, North and
East), 26 groups at risk have been monitored monthly and this information made available to decision
makers. This has enabled appropriate measures to be taken in order to avert famine. Local staff
trained and equipped at the district, provincial and national levels have demonstrated their ability to
carry out food security surveillance without external assistance.
Market infrastructure component
2.12   Achievements under this component have been negligible. Out of the planned 30 markets,
only 6 were built. Of these six markets, only two are fully operational. CFC was very slow in
implementing this component because it wanted to be very careful in protecting its financial interest
as it was lending to municipalities plagued by internal problems.
2.13   The component was able to train 20 provincial directors of CFC agencies, 13 trainers from
CFC, and 15 from the Ministry of Territorial Administration (MINAT) but only two seminars were
provided for mayors. Study tours were organized in Morocco and Burkina Paso to visit markets and
other economic activities implemented and managed by municipalities.
Pilot nutrition education component
2.14   This component partially achieved its objectives. It conducted several nutrition education
research and training activities. It provided training to 357 staff members from four different
ministries (Health, Agriculture, Social Affairs and Higher Education), to NGOs and to over 1,500
community leaders and field agents. The community leaders organized "nutrition groups" in their
communities and trained their members (essentially women). Evaluation studies were completed and
indicated that around 40% of the women in these nutrition groups improved their nutritional
knowledge, and that 20% of these women actually improved their nutritional practices.
Major Factors affecting the Project
2.15   Two major factors outside of the borrower's control adversely affected the project. The
cancellation of US$10.6 millions equivalent of the initial IBRD loan of US$23 million in 1997,
following the devaluation of the CFA Franc (CFAF) in 1994. Contrary to what the Borrower had
expected the cancelled amount on the IBRD loan was not replaced by an IDA credit.
2.16   The following factors, under the borrower's control, adversely affected the project: (a) an
important public service salary reduction in 1993 which affected the morale of civil servants; (b) the
inability of the project to involve commercial banks in the micro-credit aspect of FIMAC; (c) the lack



v
of proper coordination during project implementation; and (d) the insufficient knowledge of
procurement procedures which caused major delays.
2.17   The borrower also took initiatives thal: had positive impacts on the project, such as (i)
decentralization of the decision making process; (ii) creation of a strong coordinating unit in 1997
(iii) hiring of an internal controller in the micro-credit scheme to improve financial management (iv)
active campaigns in the media to support project implementation; and (v) strong political support
from ministers, governors and district authorities.
Project Sustainability
2.18   Globally, project sustainability is uncertain. The capacity building effort generated across all
components is likely to have a sustained impact, as is the emphasis put on beneficiary participation.
For example, the beneficiaries are likely to continue to use their knowledge on micro-investments, the
use of financial services and nutritional practices. However, at the component level, the picture is
mixed.
2.19   Activities carried out under the micro-project component are likely to continue outside the
FIMAC scheme provided that beneficiaries react positively to the introduction of interest rates and
that the first generation loans are completely reimbursed. The Borrower is capitalizing on the
positive achievements of this component in an upcoming IFAD Food Security/Rural Finance Project.
For the locust control component, sustainability is uncertain; UTAVA has been stocked with enough
pesticides for the next three years and has a new plane. It will be less dependent on government
funding following its restructuring. If the plane is well managed, UTAVA's activities are likely to be
sustainable. The Early Warning System is the component most likely to be sustainable because, with
SNAR, the country has the necessary tool to produce the data needed to warn of food shortages. The
government has allocated resources to support this agency and FAO is committed to provide
technical support. Sustainability is uncertain for the market infrastructure component, as only two
markets are operational. However, CFC has leanied from this experience and it has started to commit
its own funds to continue building two new markets. Sustainability is also likely for the nutrition
education component which should be integrated into the MINSANTE programs.
Bank Performance
2.20   Bank perfonnance was unsatisfactory.  Although it was good at the identification and
preparation stages, it became less satisfactory at the appraisal and negotiation stages. During
appraisal, the Bank overestimated the Borrower's institutional capacity to implement such a complex
project. During the negotiations, it agreed to provide interest-free loans on micro-projects, as the
project was focusing on poverty alleviation. This was in contradiction with the bank guidelines on
the development of sustainable micro-finance instituions. During implementation, although the Bank
had the proper skills mix, there were numerous changes of task manager, thus causing a continuity
problem. There was no formal mid-tenn evaluation.
Borrower Performance
2.21   Overall, Bonrower performance has beer[ unsatisfactory. Although project preparation was
satisfactory as the Borrower conducted participatory appraisals in the ten provinces, project design
was deficient as it took interest rates out of the micro-project component and gave a pivotal role to
civil servants rather than NGOs and private organizations. Project implementation was slow and



vi
deficient in coordination and procurement aspects. Overall, however, covenant compliance was
satisfactory.
Assessment of outcome
2.22   Overall the project outcome is unsatisfactory. Furthermore, this outcome was hard to
measure. The activities were well monitored for the micro credit and the market information system,
which used databases on microcomputers at the provincial and central levels. The project conducted
impact assessment studies for two components (micro-credit and nutrition) and a beneficiary
assessment for the whole project. But these studies did not produce reliable information on impact.
2.23   The project had poorly integrated components and its implementation by civil servants was
too slow. In the micro-project component, a zero interest rate and a lack of service fees corrupted the
project design. This distorted the basic rules of sustainable micro-finance. The 73% recovery rate
for first generation loans was too low, leaving FIMAC with the burden to recover the CFAF I billion
still outstanding. The most significant project outcome is that it was able to train the 20,606 members
of the 2,906 beneficiary groups in the use of micro-credits. It was also able to "graduate" 92% of the
groups, which became clients of sustainable MFIs by the end of the project. The Locust Control
component did not achieve any significant outcome but UTAVA has been properly outfitted in terms
of equipment, pesticide and trained personnel to face future operations. The Early Warning System
component has achieved a significant outcome by setting up an efficient data gathering and
processing system and by becoming a service provider for development agencies and programs. The
Market Infrastructure component did not achieve any significant outcome but was able to define
more precise financing rules for building community markets. Finally, the Pilot Nutrition Education
component developed efficient nutrition education methods at the community level.
Future operations
2.24   As a follow up to the micro-project component, the MINAGRI is designing a rural finance
project with IFAD. This new project will benefit from the institutional and technical capacities built
at MINAGRI by the FSP.
Lessons learnt and recommendations
2.25   Three types of lessons and recommendations can be drawn from this project:
a)   Lessons and recommendations on the design and implementation of FSPs:
*      Civil servants should not be given a pivotal role in community micro-finance
management;
*      Decentralizing most management responsibilities can have a stimulating impact on
project outreach;
*      Reliable monitoring and evaluation systems are needed;
*      Intensive and broad-based training is a pre-condition for adequate field
implementation performance;
*      A consistent and homogeneous supervision team is needed on both the Borrower and
the Bank sides;
b)   Lessons and recommendations on micro-credit:



'vii
*      Micro-credit schemes should not be implemented with zero interest rates and without
service fees;
*      Micro-credits repaid by communities must be recycled rapidly;
*      More attention should be paid to the financial rates of return on micro-projects and to
beneficiary creditworthiness;
c)   Lessons and recommendations on the achievement of objectives:
*      From a poverty reduction standpoint, the FSP suggests that mechanisms adopted in
this project caLn be effective in selecting, designing, and implementing thousands of micro-
projects to reach remote villages in all provinces, based on poverty criteria;
*      The FSP showed how a sustained participatory process could breed innovations,
create ownership and build capacities at the community level.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(LOAN 3388-CM)
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
3.1    Following a period of strong economic growth from  1980 to 1985, the Cameroonian
economy entered a period of economic crisis due not only to external factors (falling oil prices and
sharp deterioration in its terms of trade) but also to wide-spread economic mismanagement. Faced
with this situation, in the early nineties, the Government adopted far-reaching macroeconomic and
sectoral adjustment measures including a Structural Adjustment Program.
3.2    As the economy deteriorated, the agriculture sector, which had been growing annually at
about 4% in the 1965-1985 period, started to stagnate. This sector employed close to 60% of the
population and represented, on average, about 25% of Cameroon's GDP from 1980 to 1990. In 1990,
it contributed about 35% of total export earnings. Although the country was widely recognized as
having a high ratio of food self-sufficiency (96%), this situation tended to hide structural and natural
constraints which greatly affected food security.
3.3   In order to improve this situation, the Government revised its food security strategy with
Bank assistance. The new strategy emphasized agricultural growth as a basic condition for food
security and saw the removal of supply and demand constraints as the proper instruments to achieve
this. The Government had already begun implementing this strategy through various policy and
investment decisions. The Food Security Project (FSP) was designed to complete the strategy
implementation by increasing food marketing efficiency and supporting income generating and
infrastructure micro-projects.
3.4    The Bank had already been involved in poverty alleviation in Cameroon by financing Social
Funds. The first Social Fund, known as the Rural Development Fund Project (Credit No. 723-CM)
which was approved in 1977, was followed in 1985 by a new project called the Second Rural
Development Fund or FSAR II (Loan No. 2567-CM). The FSP (Loan No. 3388-CM) which, for its
major component described below, builds on the experiences of these two previous projects
(especially the PPDR component of the FSAR), was signed on September 16, 1991 between the
Government of the Republic of Cameroon and the Bank. It became effective on May 27, 1992.
3.5    The project formed an integral part of the structural adjustment strategy by alleviating the
negative impact of adjustment measures on the population's accessibility to food, and fostering



2
participation of the poor in the growth process. The project, which was originally scheduled to close
on June 30, 1999, amounted to US$23.00 million equivalent and project implementation was
entrusted to five agencies: the MINSANTE, the MINAGRI, the CFC, the UTAVA and the SNAR.
The Project, financed by the Bank, the Government of Cameroon, local municipalities and
beneficiaries, also benefitted from a Japanese Grant (US$5.1 million equivalent). This grant was
mainly used to prepare and initiate the project, fi-om 1991 to 1994 and to cover some expenses on the
Early Warning System which were carried out until 1997. Out of the US$5.1 million equivalent, 1.9
million was used by the Micro-project component to finance technical assistance, training and the
first micro-projects. The remaining US$3.2 million was used by the Early Warning System
component to fund technical assistance, training, equipment and operational expenses.
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.6   The overall objective was poverty reduction. The general strategy was to improve food
security through capacity building and increasing the incomes of targeted segments of the rural
population. The project outputs were: a) to create employment opportunities and raise the
purchasing power of rural groups, particularly women; b) to reduce the impact of locust attacks on
food production in northern regions; c) to increase the efficiency of staple foods marketing and; d) to
test nutrition interventions aimed at improving the dietary practices of vulnerable groups.
3.7   The objectives were very clear and closely related to production, physical availability,
financial accessibility and utilization of food. They were also in line with the National Food Security
Strategy in that they dealt as much with incentives to increase supply (by focussing on reducing the
impact of locust attacks and on increasing efficiency in marketing and storage of foodstuffs) as they
did with demand side measures (increase of employment opportunities and improvement of feeding
habits) and information and planning aspects. Imnplementation of these objectives was to be carried
out under the following five components.
3.8    A micro-project component: This component was to finance commercial cash-generating
activities, non-commercial productive activities, infrastructure, and village storage facilities. At the
time of appraisal, this component, entrusted to the FIMAC, was to absorb 52% of the total funding.
A second objective of this component was to bring rural groups into the mainstream of the private
commercial credit system.
3.9    A locust control component. Entrusted to the UTAVA, this component was to reduce the
impact of locust attacks on food production in the North and Extreme North of the country. It was to
last over a three year period.
3.10   An Early Warning System component: Entrusted to the SNAR, this component was to
establish an Early Warning Market and Information System on food shortages.
3.11   A pilot market infrastructure component: Entrusted to the CFC, this component was to build
and renovate market facilities in urban (secondary cities) and rural communes.
3.12   A pilot nutrition education component: Entrusted to the MINSANTE, this component was to
develop and implement a pilot nutrition education program through research, testing and
dissemination of nutrition messages. It was to last over a three year period (in one department in the
Extreme North, Eastern and Western Provinces and the urban slums of Douala) and targeted high risk
groups, specifically children under 5 and pregnant and lactating women.



3
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.13   The multi-sectoral nature of the project makes its achievements difficult to measure globally.
Criteria for judging the achievement of objectives were quantified in the SAR in terms of outreach.
Depending on the component, a very uneven effort was made to define adequate performance
criteria; therefore the different components have to be looked at separately.  Overall, project
objectives were only partially achieved but many lessons were learned, on the ways to mobilize
community participation, on the need to apply market based interest rates even in poverty alleviation
projects such as this one. The Bank applied these lessons in other countries in similar projects, and
the borrower will apply them in forthcoming food security and rural finance projects in preparation
with IFAD support.
Micro-project component
3.14   This component achieved its objective of training the group members on the use of financial
services, of raising the purchasing power of the group members and creating employment
opportunities. However from a micro-finance standpoint, the results were limited. Before the project
start, the Japanese Grant was used to pay for the training of 10 regional coordinators during one year
in Gabon. It was further used to train district supervisors and members of the first groups, from 1991
to 1993.
3.15   From an outreach standpoint, a well-trained team was able to extend credit to 2,906 groups
(involving 20,606 members, of which 43% were women) against a target of 2,067 groups. The
groups came from the 52 districts of the country, as illustrated on the map in appendix D. Training in
micro-project management was initially provided by projet staff, and subcontracted to NGOs after
1993. The members from 1,595 groups benefited from formal organizational, financial and technical
training sessions.  The other groups benefited from  informal training on preparation and
implementation of the micro-projects. The above results were achieved at a time when public support
to agricultural credit had ceased and when investment funding was not available to farmers.
3.16   Group members used the micro-credits provided by the project essentially for food
production and processing, as illustrated in the graph in appendix C: 32% of the groups were engaged
in food crops production, 24% in livestock, 18% in animal traction, 7% in vegetable growing and
16% in processing (flour and oil mills). Very few groups used the funds for village infrastructure
(3%) as most villagers were mainly attracted by income generating activities.
3.17   Activities financed under this component were generally profitable as indicated by a
beneficiary assessment carried on in 1995 and as suggested by the Internal Rates of Return computed
by the project staff. The project trained 10 provincial staff in micro-project management during one
year in Gabon. The trainees prepared 10 "reference activity models", including IRRS. These activity
models were updated, based upon samples of real activities conducted by groups in different
provinces. When compared to similar models shown in the SAR, the IRRs from the real cases are
substantially higher than the initially estimated 15%. Some examples are provided in table 9 of the
annex, they report very high IRRs, above 150%. The figures could not be verified during the ICR
process as time did not premit to elaborate detailed activity models. Still, the beneficiary assessment
reports that group members felt that food availability and income had been improved by their access
to micro-credit. Furthermore, 90% of the groups became clients of MFIs by the end of the project,
and are willing to continue using credit services, even with market based interest rates. This suggests
that they are convinced to get a positive return on their future investments.



4
3.18   From a micro-finance standpoint, however, the component did not achieve all its objectives.
The average recoveiy rate for micro-projects loans has been low (73% on March 31, 1999) and
variable depending on the province (only three reached rates higher than 85%). This low rate is
mainly due to the fact that these loans were not perceived as real loans, as they were handled by civil
servants, they had ze:ro interest rates and they did not charge service fees.
3.19   The component did not achieve its micro-finance objective regarding the experimental micro-
credit fund for cash-generating activities. Th.is sub-component was never implemented mainly
because the commercial banks were not interested in managing this experimental fund. The
borrower's own experience with micro-credit management through MINAGRI had ended with the
liquidation (in 1989) of FONADER, the agricultural credit institution created inside the MINAGRI.
Still, this objective was partly met by the links that were established, by the project's end, with
private MFIs. Two years before the end of the project, the revolving funds were transferred as Trust
Funds to about 30(0 private MFIs.  In this new approach, management responsibilities were
transferred from MINAGRI to autonomous private rural development structures. For this second
round of loans, the first generation beneficiary groups have been linked to private MFIs which lent
them money partly guaranteed by the revolving funds and partly by their own savings. This
guarantees the availability, at local levels, of more financial resources at affordable interest rates for
small farmers who cannot meet the requirements of the formal banking sector and therefore it closes
the gap between the formal and informal financial sectors.
3.20   The first step of this new approach has been quite successful. Of the 2,810 groups which
were involved in productive investments in the first round, 81% were linked to MFIs by February 28,
1999 (the 96 groups which were involved in village infrastructure were not taken into account
because they did not pay back their loans but simply made provisions for depreciation). Half of the
remaining groups was due to be linked in March/April 1999. The other half is located in very remote
areas where there are no MFIs. In those cases, the revolving funds will be transformed into village
development funds which will be used to build local infrastructure. This new approach cannot yet be
considered a success as the linkage with private MFIs started in the last two years of the project and
has not had the time to prove that it can function properly.
3.21   Finally, the component did not achieve its objective regarding the construction of village
storage facilities in the Far North. This sub-component was never implemented; a study conducted in
1991 showed that formner attempts carried by NGOs were not successful.
Locust control component
3.22   This component achieved negligible results. The capacity of UTAVA to carry out aerial
spraying of locusts has been limited from 1992 to 1997 by the lack of pesticides while in 1998, the
last year of the project, it was by the lack of operational planes (there were enough pesticides but only
one plane was available to do the spraying). Activities foreseen under the component included the
purchase of two planes and spare parts to enable aerial spraying of locusts, training of personnel, and
financing operating costs. When this component first became operational, spare parts were bought to
repair two planes. Major delays due to procurement problems have plagued UTAVA all along the
project. One plane was bought in April 1999, about three months after the end of all other project
activities.
3.23   As planned, two studies have been completed for this component. The first dealt with the
improvement of UTAVA's performance and has led to the restructuring of UTAVA and the ensuing



5
reduction of its work force to between 15 and 18, thereby reducing its wage bill. The second study,
focussing on the cost-benefit aspect of crop protection services, was completed in 1994. Four pilots
(specialized training in crop-dusting techniques) and two mechanics (aircraft maintenance and repair)
have been trained and local communities in the beneficiary provinces have also been trained to better
monitor and alert technical teams who are then able to carry out rapid interventions.
Early Warning System
3.24   This component has achieved its objective in a substantial way. From 1991 to 1997, this
component, totally financed by the Japanese Grant, was implemented in two phases. The first phase
was slow and led, in 1995, to a new approach. The second phase was implemented with FAO
support and was very efficient.
3.25   During the first phase, a National Early Warning System (SNAR) was established by
MINAGRI at district, provincial and national levels. Staff at these three levels were trained from
1991 to 1995. This phase was slow and plagued by accounting and audit problems that stopped
disbursements in 1995 and 1996. The central disbursement agency in Cameroon, the "Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement" (CAA) was slow in making funds available to SNAR.
3.26   During the second phase, starting in 1995, the whole system was reorganized, with FAO
providing technical assistance to a small national team. The new Early Warning System, fully
operational since 1997, has been of particular importance to the Northern provinces of the country
where food crop production is constantly exposed to droughts and attacks from migratory locusts and
birds. Adequate information on food security in the country has been provided through a regular
monthly publication and this has been very useful. For instance, two early warnings (in 1994 and
1997) have helped avert serious food shortages in difficult circumstances.
3.27  Information on food crop availability in different parts of the country has been provided to
decision makers and farmers alike in a bid to influence market supply and to avoid price hikes. This
information has been made available through rural radios on a weekly basis and has provided prices
and volume of foodstuff available in 56 rural and urban markets nationwide. This information has
also been posted in those markets.
3.28  In the three provinces most exposed to food shortages (Far North, North and East), 26 groups
at risk have been monitored on a monthly basis, and information collected on these groups has been
made available to decision makers thus enabling them to take appropriate measures to avert famine.
3.29   Local staff have been trained and equipped at the district, provincial and national levels of the
MINAGRI and this team have shown their ability to produce all the information needed by SNAR
without external assistance.
Market infrastructure component
3.30   Achievements under this component have been negligible as major problems occurred on the
first investments. The component started late (early 1994) because CFC was still using funds from
another project (the Second Urban Development Project; Loan No. 2999-CM) for the same purpose.
CAA and CFC had disagreements on who would be managing the Special Account set up for this
component. Community Councils were not able to finance the required feasibility studies.



6
3.31   Out of the planned total of 30 to 40 markets, only 6 were built by municipalities, with CFC
loans. During the first years, CFC mainly conducted training for its staff and for mayors. A total of
20 provincial directors of CFC agencies, 13 facilitators from CFC, 15 facilitators from the MINAT
and 146 mayors were trained. Study tours were organized in Morocco and Burkina Faso. Then three
markets were built in 1996 and three others in 1997. Social cohesion was hard to establish as the
implementation started during a period of political turmoil and instability. Market construction in
some municipalities was hampered by personality and political differences and conflicts over market
location. Of the six markets that were built, only two are fully operational but two more can reach
that status if the Councils have full control of the management responsibilities. The remaining two
markets are not used by the municipalities.
Nutrition education component
3.32   This component partially achieved its objectives.  The activities started slowly, as the
component was providing training to health staff in public hospitals and dispensaries. The approach
was drastically revised in 1994 and the emphasis was put on training community groups in areas
affected by food insecurity. It conducted several nutrition education research and training activities
in selected test areas, in the North, West and Littoral regions. It provided training to 357 staff
members from four different ministries (Health, Agriculture, Social Affairs and Higher Education), to
NGOs and to over 1,500 community leaders and field agents. The community leaders organized
"nutrition groups" in their communities and trained their members (essentially women). Evaluation
studies were completed and indicated that around 40% of the women in these nutrition groups
improved their nutritional knowledge, and that 20% of these women actually improved their
nutritional practices.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Subject to Borrower's Control
3.33   Changes in the economic environment. The devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994 had
negative impacts on the project. Cameroon beamne eligible for IDA funds and, as the project had
been slow in disbursing, part of the IBRD loan was cancelled in 1997 (US$ 10.6 million equivalent).
At the time, around 2,600 groups had submitted ifunding requests to FIMAC and MINAGRI and were
expecting that IDA funds would replace the cancelled amount. As this did not happen, FIMAC staff
and candidate groups were discouraged. The word quickly spread that "FIMAC was closing" and
that it was not necessary to pay back the on going credits anymore. This resulted in a further drop in
the repayment rates.
Factors Generally Subject to Borrower's Conl:rol
3.34   Cuts in civil servants' purchasing power. The 50% salary cut suffered by all Cameroonian
civil servants, (compounded by the 50% devaluation) de-motivated project staff and prevented them
from fully contributing to project implementation.
3.35   The commercial micro-credit aspect of FIMAC was not implemented. The borrower
could not find the proper incentives to involve commercial banks in this scheme. After this activity
was dropped, the borrower did not take the decision to find an alternative until the last two years of
the project when it b:rought in MFIs under the second generation loan scheme. As a consequence, the



7
viability of a micro-credit program including interest rates had still not been tested at the end of the
project.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency's Control
3.36   Coordination of the implementing agencies. Insufficient project coordination caused
implementation delays. This was due to the fact that different Ministries and agencies, which were
not answerable to the MINAGRI, had management responsibilities in some project components. The
borrower established a coordinating unit in 1997, and this measure had a positive impact on project
activities.
3.37   Handling of procurement procedures. Delays in awarding procurement contracts seriously
hampered project implementation. For instance, the purchase of the plane by UTAVA happened only
in May 1999, bringing about two extensions of the loan closing date. The borrower hired an Internal
Controller for the micro-credit component in 1998, which resulted in improvements in procurement
and financial management.
3.38   Changes in implementation procedures. The change in the minimum contribution required
from FIMAC beneficiaries opened project funding to a larger number of beneficiary groups than
would have been the case with the original arrangements. The borrower also took appropriate steps
to decentralize the decision making and disbursement processes at the provincial level for loans not
exceeding CFAF 500,000 speeding up the loan approval and disbursement process.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
3.39   Although some components may be sustainable, overall the sustainability of the FSP is
uncertain. The emphasis put on beneficiary participation and the linkage with the private financial
sector are important factors in sustaining the achievements of this project.
3.40   The capacity and institution building effort generated across all components of the project is
likely to be sustained. The skills acquired by beneficiary groups have prepared them for future
micro-credit operations. The skills acquired by government staff will enable them to continue
providing useful advice in the various components. This is especially true for the MINAGRI where
around 90 high-level staff have acquired the necessary expertise to provide technical assistance to
farmers in agricultural credit. Skills acquired by beneficiary groups in micro-project management are
also likely to be sustained.
3.41   The micro-projects component is likely to become sustainable: the MFIs should be able to
extend more credit to small farmer groups, using the trust funds as partial guarantee for 25% of the
loan amounts. Their operations are likely to be sustainable, as they will be charging market based
interest rates. MINAGRI has expressed its commitment to continue monitoring the use of the trust
funds managed by the MFIs and expressed its willingness to sustain the FSP achievements in micro-
project implementation. These achievements will be extended in the upcoming IFAD rural finance
project.
3.42   Sustainability is uncertain for the locust control component. UTAVA's sustainability will
rely on the quality of its management. If well managed, it will become sustainable, as it is well
equipped and has stocks of insecticides. The fact that UTAVA was restructured early in the project
has made it more efficient and has increased its financial sustainability by making it less dependant



8
on government funding (from 1990 to 1998 government funding has decreased from 80 to 20%). As
a test, UTAVA has trained some farmers in the art of setting traps and has organized them in "locust
prevention brigades", providing them with Global Positioning Systems. This test proved to be a
success, as the aerial spraying could be accurately targeted.
3.43   The Early Warning System component is likely to be sustainable. With SNAR, the country
has developed a lasting capacity to monitor food markets and prices and to produce in a timely
fashion the data needed by decision makers to avert famines and food shortages. Furthermore, the
Early Warning Systern has been integrated into MINAGRI's operations by way of a budget allocation
line made especially for the team in charge of SNAR by the Government of Cameroon since 1997.
FAO has expressed its willingness to continue supporting data analysis and forecast as needed.
Contracts signed by SNAR with SODECOTON, SOWEDA, ADIE, IRAD, CRDP, UNDP 1 and FAO,
provide evidence that its achievements are widely recognized by its local and international partners.
3.44   Sustainability is unlikely for the market infrastructure component managed by CFC. Only
two markets out of the six that were built should continue their operations, covering their costs and
paying back their loans to CFC. Still, CFC has learned how to assess political risks by involving the
beneficiaries from the start. Construction has started for two other markets in 1998, with financing
from CFC's own funds.
3.45   Sustainability is likely for the nutrition eaducation component. The achievements of this pilot
intervention, mainly in terms of community participation, have been integrated into some of
MINSANTE and MDIAGRI programs, especially in the new "Health and Nutrition" project.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
3.46   Overall Bank performance has not been satisfactory: The Bank did not resolve the
underlying dual aim of achieving social development objectives and achieving sound financial
objectives. This resulted in different judgments on project performance. In the identification stage,
the performance was satisfactory in that it was consistent with the country's food security strategy
and with the Bank's strategy which, at the time, was to protect poor segments of the population
during a structural adjustment period.
3.47  In the appraisal stage, the Bank initially identified the supervision and implementation risks
linked to the complexity of the project but overestimated the Borrower's institutional capacity to
implement such a project. The Bank did not clarify whether the emphasis was on the social or on the
financial side. The Bank agreed to fund micro-projects with interest-free loans. This was not
compatible with the basic rules of micro-finance: in the absence of interest rates the beneficiaries
could not learn to use real credit instruments and ihe institutions involved could not cover their costs.
The confusion between the social and financial objectives of the micro-project component was
mirrored in hesitations on where to anchor the project within the Bank. The project started in an
Agricultural division, then it moved to a Human I)evelopment division in 1992, and it finally moved
back to an agricultural division in 1996.
3.48   During implementation, performance was deficient although the Bank used the proper skills
mix and conducted two to four supervision missions per year, during project implementation. There
was a lack of continuity in the Bank supervision efforts shown by the numerous changes of task
I See acronyms definition on the introductory part of this document.



9
managers during the project life (five in all, with each task manager bringing a different
understanding of the project's objectives). The lack of a formal mid-term evaluation prevented some
corrective measures from being taken at the right time. However, the Bank showed great flexibility
with regard to implementation changes and to the reallocation of funds when the project was
restructured in 1997. It was also instrumental in helping define a new approach that would improve
the chances of making the micro-project component sustainable.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
3.49   Overall, the Borrower's performance was not satisfactory. During project preparation,
performance was satisfactory as the borrower conducted participatory appraisals in 6 provinces over
three months.  During project implementation, the performance was not fully satisfactory as
management capacities in some of the implementing agencies (UTAVA and CFC) were
overestimated. Although the Borrower was instrumental in creating conditions favorable to an
increase in the number of beneficiary groups funded through FIMAC (by amending the Loan
Agreement and by decentralizing the loan processing procedures to provincial capitals), the Borrower
was deficient in the coordination and management aspects of the project. A lack of proper
coordination between the various agencies implementing the different components led to
implementation delays. So did the centralized disbursement system at the CAA which, by delaying
the submission of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), hindered the replenishment of some of the
special accounts. Nonetheless, all funds earmarked for the project after restructuring were disbursed.
3.50   Covenant compliance has been satisfactory. Procurement activities have been completed for
all components but with major delays for the purchase of a plane for UTAVA. The govemment has
been slow in awarding some procurement contracts, especially for the purchase of replacement
vehicles and motorcycles to continue certain activities after Bank funding stops.  The CFC
component suffered setbacks due to a misunderstanding about the component's objectives by the
implementing agency. In 1998, an extemal compliance audit focussing on procurement procedures
implemented by all Bank projects in Cameroon found no significant problems in the FSP when
compared to the other projects.
3.51   Audits for the various components of the project were late in 1994 and 1995. Major
problems occurred on three components. SNAR did not set up a satisfactory accounting system until
1994. These problems were all corrected in 1997. From 1997 to 1999 all audit reports were received
by the Bank.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
3.52   Overall, the project outcome has been unsatisfactory although it was able to achieve
meaningful but limited results from a poverty reduction standpoint. For the components managed by
SNAR and MINSANTE, the outcome is partly satisfactory. However, for those components
managed by FIMAC, UTAVA and CFC, it is not satisfactory.
3.53   The project outcome was hard to measure. The activities were well monitored for the micro
credit and the market information system, which used databases on microcomputers at the provincial
and central levels. The project conducted impact assessment studies for two components (micro-
credit and nutrition) and a beneficiary assessment for the whole project. These studies did not
produce reliable information on impact.



10
3.54   The micro-project component did not achieve a satisfactory outcome. On one hand, this
component had important outreach as it made financial resources available to poor rural farmers.
From a food security standpoint, this component contributed to the increase in food production and
revenues for the expected beneficiaries. Fronr a social point of view, FIMAC had an important
impact on capacity building for more than 20,000 beneficiaries, training them in the proper use of
financial services. These beneficiaries were later linked to formal MFIs. From these two last
standpoints, the project met its objectives. This component was also satisfactory in transforming the
revolving funds into Trust Funds in private MFIs. On the other hand, however, the design of this
component was corrupted by the absence of interest rates in the micro-credit process and its
implementation by civil servants was very slow. As a consequence, the concept of sustainable micro-
credit was distorted. In addition, the recovery rate was low (73%) and FIMAC needs to recover the
CFAF one billion still outstanding from the first generation loans. Finally, two sub-components, the
micro-credit fund for cash-generating activities and the village storage facilities were never
implemented. Therefore, globally, the outcome is not satisfactory.
3.55   The locust control component did not achieve any significant outcome during the project but,
at the end of the pro.ject, UTAVA is properly outfitted in terms of equipment, pesticide stocks, trained
personnel and restructured management to face future operations.
3.56   The Early Marning System componeni: achieved a significant outcome. It has set up an
efficient data gathering and processing system and is financed in part by the Government and in part
by service contracts with development agencies and programs.
3.57   The market infrastructure component has not achieved a significant outcome in terms of new
markets built. Howvever, the project was successful in defining more precise financing rules for
building community markets and CFC has already started to build new markets with its own funds.
3.58   The pilot nutrition education component undertook baseline studies and developed efficient
nutrition education rnethods at the community level. It reached a large number of people in its target
population and improved their feeding habits.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
3.59   Institutional and technical capacities have been built up at the MINAGRI and this will enable
the Ministry to design and implement future proj ects with little external support. The monitoring and
evaluation skills developed by the staff and those acquired and integrated in the Ministry's operations
are useful for on-going as well as future operations to be carried out by the Ministry.
3.60   As a follow up to the micro-project cornponent, the MINAGRI is preparing a rural finance
project with IFAD. This new project is likely to support the emerging private MFIs, without direct
involvement of civil servants into loan operations. MINAGRI will mainly monitor trust funds use by
cooperating MFIs. It will keep a small team to monitor: (i) the recovery of the CFAF one billion still
outstanding from the first generation loans; (ii) 1he annual reports of each cooperating MFI; and (iii)
the financial return on micro-projects. Interest payments to the managing MFIs are likely to sustain
credit operations for the next five to ten years.



I1
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.61   This project was rated by the beneficiaries of micro-credits and nutrition education as
satisfactory or very satisfactory. Their main complaint was that 2,600 micro-projects were prepared
and were not funded. Although the project faced many limitations, the beneficiaries indicated that it
was the first project in Cameroon that brought them concrete support, increasing directly their food
production and generating income through credit. The financial set-up of micro-credits was not
satisfactory and consequently less successful from a micro-finance standpoint.
Lessons on Food Security Project design
3.62   Civil servants should not be given a pivotal role in community micro-finance management.
Implementation of similar activities in future projects should be handled by private NGOs or other
local organizations and local civil servants should have only a peripheral role if any.
3.63   Decentralizing most management responsibilities can have a stimulating impact on project
outreach. MINAGRI opened ten sub-accounts, one in each province. Procurement of inputs for
micro-projects was based on three pro-forma prepared by the groups themselves. MINAGRI created
ten regional development committees to review FIMAC micro-project applications. These were
selection committees with a mandate broad enough to include resource allocation responsibilities.
The central level could only oppose by using its veto, if needed. This veto was never used during the
project. The involvement of many participants at the regional level has created strong ownership and
left considerable experience and expertise at decentralized levels for similar operations in the future.
3.64   More reliable monitoring and evaluation systems are needed. The micro-credit and the
nutrition components maintained a computerized database at the provincial and central levels, but
apart from that, project monitoring and evaluation was not well organized. The project failed to make
provisions for an independent impact evaluation system. This led to difficulties in assesing the
effects of the various components. Beneficiary assessments were useful to compensate for these
weaknesses. However they were qualitative and did not provide measurable evidence of impact on
food security.
Lessons on FSP implementation
3.65   Intensive and broad-based training is a pre-condition for adequate field implementation
performance. Such projects can have an important impact on capacity building; the project has
achieved good results in the number and diversity of training sessions provided to staff in all
components and to beneficiaries in the micro-project and nutrition component.
3.66   A consistent and homogeneous supervision team is needed, on the Borrower and the Bank
sides. Frequent changes of task managers are detrimental to project supervision. Such changes are
specially detrimental in the case of innovative projects such as this one: different task managers,
brought their own perspective, putting more emphasis on one or the other sides of the project. In
contrast, projects of similar nature which have benefited from a consistent and homogeneous
supervision team have performed better.
Lessons on micro-credit
3.67   Micro-credit schemes cannot be implemented without interest rates. The absence of interest
rates on micro-credits was one of the weakest points in the design of the project. As other African



12
food security and micro-credit projects have shown, market based interest rates are not an obstacle to
dissemination and are a condition for sustainability. They are also necessary to initiate poor
communities in the use of genuine micro-credit.
3.68   Micro-credits repaid by communities must be recycled rapidly: Project design failed to make
appropriate arrangements to recycle the funds repaid by rural groups. The refunded sums were
frozen in bank accounts from 1992 until 1997 when innovative solutions were found to use them as
trust funds incooperating MFIs. Similar projects would need to set up clear arrangements for second
generation loans to sitart at an early stage and to stimulate the whole process. The most appropriate
way seems to link the beneficiary groups with existing micro-finance institutions from the beginning.
3.69   Such projects can raise local expertise in assessing rates of return of rural investments and
draw attention on the profitability of specific rural activities: The fact that three quarters of the
participating rural groups were able to repay the initial loans suggests that most investments onducted
by the groups were profitable. The project demonstrated that it could contribute to raise the expertise
of agricultural technical services to assess these rates of return and capitalize on the information on
profitability for future investments. It also showed that it was effective in building credit worthiness
among rural producers. Intensive training of beneficiaries and frequent site-visits made thousands of
rural groups capable of managing micro-projects. The fact that most of the groups became clients of
MFIS at the end of the project, indicates that they are willing to use credits for rural investments.
Lessons learned on achievement of poverty and participation objectives
3.70   From a poverty reduction standpoint, the project suggests that the mechanisms adopted can
be effective. It was able to select, design and implement thousands of micro-projects, located in
remote villages in all provinces, "bringing for the first time concrete signs of external aid" according
to the report from the beneficiary participation. 'However another lesson is that this mechanism was
too rooted in the daily operations of the civil service, and was therefore slow and costly.
3.71   A sustained participatory process can breed innovations, create ownership and build
capacities at the community level. The beneficiary assessment showed that FIMAC was perceived
by thousands of farmers as "their" project: addressing their needs for small lines of credit in a time
of financial crisis. Project staff and beneficiaries were able to influence markedly the FIMAC
implementation manual which was revised thirteen times during the project. Many groups used
technical innovations which they would have not tested without FIMAC support: for example on
processing equipment, animal husbandry, small irrigation techniques, vegetable production, food
processing and preservation, pest prevention and treatment, transportation, etc. Most group members
gained self-confidence in the use of micro-finance tools or in their capacity to improve their
nutritional practices, by themselves.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(LOAN 3388-CM)
4. PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                              x
Sector Policies                                                                             x
Financial Objectives                                   X
Institutional Development                              x
Physical Objectives                                    X
Poverty Reduction                     X
Gender Issues                                          X
Other Social Objectives               X
Environmental Objectives                                                                    X
Public Sector Management                                                 x
Private Sector Development                                               X
Other (specify)                                                                             X
B. Project Sustainability                Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank Performance                       satisfactory           Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                                                  X
Preparation Assistance                                          X
Appraisal                                                                                   X
Supervision                                                                                 X
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                        satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient



14
Preparation                                                X
Implementation                                                            x
Covenant Compliance                                        X
Operation (if applicable)
Highly 
E. Assessment of OutcDme            satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
x
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Preceding Operations
1. Rural Development  Develop, strengthen and    1977   Credit closed on December 31, 1983. In spite of early
Fund Project          support institutions involved      management problems and slow disbursements which led
(Credit 723-CM)       in rural development and           to two closing date extensions, the project achieved a
thus increase their                satisfactory performance of its physical targets: 1,400
capabilities to carry out high-    wells were renovated (100% achievement); 60 wells
priority, small-scale              capped (100%); 230 positive boreholes drilled (53%);
development projects               315 manual pumps installed (64%); 4 small dams
throughout the country.            constructed (40%); 1,100 cattle fattening credits
allocated (55%); 60 market garden loans made (100%)
and 300 ha of bottom land developed (100%).
2. Second Rural      Strengthen rural             1985   Credit closed on December 31, 1993 two years later than
Development Fund      development institutions at        scheduled and with an undisbursed balance of US$4.5
Project               village, provincial and            million which was cancelled effective August 16, 1994.
(Loan 2567-CM)        national levels; and improve       For the most important component, rural water supply,
living conditions and              the project objectives were over-achieved: 1,117 wells
incomes in rural areas             were installed (111.7% achievement) at a per unit cost
through the implementation         that was 24 percent lower than planned; the projected
of selected, high priority         beneficiaries per well rose to 450 compared to the 350
operations, not covered by         originally planned. Achievements of specific objectives
other projects and programs.       of the PPDR component were modest, especially as
measured by original standards. Direct achievements in
other areas were very small or nil.
Following Operations                         _
3 National Agricultural Increase Agricultural    1990   Credit closed on December 31, 1998 one year later than
Extension and Training  Production and Income by          scheduled. The impact of the agricultural extension
Project               improving the testing and          services supported by the project is clearly positive as the
(Loan 31850-CM)       dissemination of new               July 1997 Beneficiary Assessment has confirmed. The
agricultural technologies in a     project has made a major contribution to assisting the
cost effective manner.             Government in the implementation of a national
agricultural extension strategy.



15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification                                                   04/11/1988      I
Preparation                                                       I11/88
Pre-appraisal                                                    07/12/1989      l
Appraisal                                   11/1989              10/14/1989
Negotiations                               04/1991               04/03/1991
Board presentation                           N/A                 07/02/1991
Signing                                      N/A                 09/16/1991
Effectiveness                              08/1991               05/27/1992
Midterm review                        12/31/1994 (FIMAC)  Informal review 09/1994
Project completion                        12/31/1998             12/31/1998
Credit closing                            06/30/1999             03/31/1999
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate       1.15    2.99     4.37     5.06    3.22     2.07    2.99     1.15
Original Cumulative      1.15    4.14     8.51     13.57   16.79    18.86   21.85   23.00
Revised                 2.01       0       1.10    2.57     1.32     1.80    1.85    1.75
Revised Cumulative      2.01     2.01     3.11     5.68    7.00     8.80    10.65   12.40
Actual                  2.01       0       1.10    2.57    2.63      1.68    1.54    0.36
Actual-Cumulative       2.01     2.01     3.11     5.69    8.33     9.99    11.53   11.83
Actualas%ofRevised       100               100      100     199      93      83       21
Actual as % of Estimate    175     0       25       51       82      81      51       31
Date of Final                                                                      Expected
Disbursement (for                                                                    06/99
UTAVA plane)



16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
a. Micro"rojects                          _
.Number of groups supported                      2 000              2,906
. Number of micro-projects                       1_867    2_906
. Community leaders training                   Completed           Not done
. Farmer's groups training                       2000                1595
. Field staff training                         Completed         Completed (9)
. Training extension workers                   Completed              N/A
._NGOs training                               Completed           Not done
. Training in storage techniques to beneficiary  Completed            N/A
groups
. Groups financed by the Village Storage Pilot    200                  0
Program in the Extreme North
b. Locust control
. Percentage of infested area covered by anti-locust  65             N/A
aerial spray
. Percentage of anti-locust government campaign   20                 N/A
financed by APCU                        _                         .__ .
| Study on cost-effectiveness of ground treatment  Completed       Completed
* Training in crop dusting techniques          Completed      Completed for 4 pilots
. Training in maintenance and repair techniques  Completed   Completed for 2 mechanics
c. Information systemii                __
| Publication and diffusion of quarterly news bulletin   Completed  Completed
. Weekly or bi-weekly radio programs reporting  Completed          Completed
pricing and marketing information at provincial
level
. Publication of an annual report              Completed             N/A
* Training for enumerators and MINAGRI personnel   Completed       Completed
. lMarket infrastructure
. Number of markets renovated or built           30-40      6 (including 2 inadequate)
. Training seminars for rural and urban Councils  Completed    146 mayors trained
e. IPilot Nutrition education
. Field agents trained in community techniques    400                 N/A
. Training for technical coordination committees and   Completed      N/A
field staff
. Train staff in qualitative research          Completed           Completed
. Education material development testing       Completed           Completed
. Baseline study                               Completed           Completed
. Repeat study                                 Completed           Completed
. Formulation of a national education strategy  Completed           Not done



17
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Not Applicable
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Locust Control Study    To determine the cost-    Completed Conclusions of the study were used to
ffectiveness of the ground    in August revise UTAVA's strategy, for example
treatment activities of the   1994   regarding the use of village brigades and
Crop Protection Service and           ground interventions
the possibility of farmer
participation in crop
protection in the two Northern
Provinces
"Improvement of UTAVA's Study not included in        Completed The study led to the restructuring of
performance" Study    appraisal document. The               UTAVA and to a reduction of its work
purpose was to analyze                force and therefore to a reduction of its
UTAVA in order to improve             wage bill
ts performance.
Nutrition Baseline Study  To examine mothers'      Completed The study provided a detailed description
owledge, attitudes and              of the nutrition status, with significative
practices and nutrition status        differences from one region to another. It
of the high risk population           was used to prepare specific strategies in
and a comparison group                each region. The baseline survey was used
as a basis for comparison in the following
studies
Nutrition Repeat Survey  To show changes from      Completed Positive changes were reported, calling the
Baseline Study.                       attention of senior officials and other
donors.
Nutrition Evaluation Study To evaluate the Pilot Program  Completed The evaluation was used to prepare
proposals for further actions in a new
health project



18
TABLE 8 A-A: PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Micro-Projects Development     11l.l   7.3        1843,7    -3,7   1
Locust Control Programi      11.1    3.9         5.0                          0,4    1,0       1,4   1
Information Systems            0.6    0.7         1.3                          2,4    1,7      4,1
Market Infrastructure          3.5    2.4         6.0                          0,69    0,07     0,76
Nutrition                      0.6    0.8         1.4                          0,6    0,1      0,7
Total Base                     17.0   15.1       32.1                          7,79    2,87     10,66
Price Contingencies            1.2    1.2         2.4
Physical Contingencies         0.5    0.7         1.3
Total Cost (incl. Taxes)       18.7   17.0        35.7
Taxes                         1(0.4)   0.0       (0.4)                         0,2             0,2
Total Project Cost (Net of Taxes) 118.3   17.0   35.3
TABLE 8 A-B: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY (BANK FUNDING ONLY)
IS          MIN4AGRI -Small-scale Projects              8,500,0001  4,500,000      3,731,320 
| 2        | MINAGRI - Vehicles/Equipment/Materials       00,000    900,000        606,833
6           MINAGRI - Consultants Services/Training   2,000,000   2,000,000       271,803,957
|4         |MINAGRI - Operating Costs               | 1,000,000 |2,000,000  |2,350,353|
5!          MIN4SANTE -Vehicles/Equipmenl.               400,000 | 150,000   L       50ooo0
|6         |MIN4SANTE - Consultants Services,/Training | 600,000 |250,000   | 271,002|
7           MINSANTE - Operating Costs                   600,000    300,000        317,826
8           UTAVA - Vehicles/Equipment                 2,000,000    1,250,000     1,322,008
9           UTAVA - Training                             200,000    150,000        181,174
10          CFC - Sub-loans                            4,100,000    600,000        455,974
11          CFC - Training                              500,000    200,000         311,472
12        ; Unallocated                                2,200,000    100,000
| Total                                    23,000,000   12,400,000    11,501,919



19
TABLE 8 B: PROJECT FINANCING
IBRD                    8.9       1.1       23.0           8          3        11l
World Food Program                                                                l  
Japan                   0.9       2.9       3.8           2,8       2,3        5,1
Government              1.8        -         1.8          0,5         -        0,5
Municipalities          1.7        -         1.7         0,18         -       0,18
Beneficiaries           3.6        -        3.6           2,4         -        2,4
APCU                    1.4        -         1.4         0,1          -        0,1l
Total                  18.3      17.0       35.3         19,9       5,3       19,2
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
The main point that should be kept in mind for this section is the fact that no Internal Rate of Return
(IRR) was initially computed for this project in the Staff Appraisal Report. What was done was to
build production models for a few of the projects included in the components and then compute
financial benefits and the associated IRRs. These hypothetical models, mostly related to the first
objective and carried out through the FIMAC, produced rates of returns generally higher than 15%;
hence the assumption that the overall IRR for the project should be equal or higher than 15%. Data
collected by the project staff and applied to some of the same production models allowed us to
compute the actual financial benefits (and the associated IRRs) accruing to the groups who adopted
these models. These are shown below on the FIMAC section. For the other components, we took a
different approach to show the economic effects generated.
a)    Locust control. Although no IRR could be computed for this component, one can look at
the economic effects linked to a fully operational UTAVA. In 1996, 300,000 Tons were harvested on
360,000 Ha of cultivated land in the target regions. Of these 360,000 Ha, 100,000 were infested with
locusts. Taking into account the fact that the average loss on infested land is about 50%, the yield for
non-infested land can be computed as: YNI = 300,000 / ((360,000-100,000) + (100,000/2)) = 0.97
Ton per Ha. This means that if the 100,000 Ha were sprayed by UTAVA, the harvest could be
increased by 48,397 Ha (i.e. 100,000 * 0.97 * 0.5). Even if losses were cut by only 50%, there still
would be an increase of 24,198 Tons on the 360,000 Ha.
b)    Early Warning System. This component has a major role in improving food security even
if no IRR was computed. The Early Warning system has reduced crop losses and therefore increased
food availability and farmers revenues. By publishing information on prices and products availability
on the 56 markets, CFC has reduced the variations in food prices and has reduced food shortages.
c)    Market infrastructure and Pilot Nutrition education. These two components should be
viewed as tests. Therefore, at this stage, the associated economic effects are minimal. These aspects
should become more important in the next phases. Nevertheless potential positive effects have



20
already been detected. For CFC, for instance, one of the markets which is operating normally has
generated a 30% increase in sales in 1996 and enough revenues to pay for local expenses (taxes,
maintenance, etc.). For the PPEN, the main economic effect is the potential reduction in health
expenditures induced by the reduction in malnutrition.
d)    Micro-projects. In comparing the SA]R estimates to the actual figures, a word of caution is
necessary. The underlying assumption behind the models (also called "modeles de reference")
presented by the project is that they are representative of the average production process for the
activities shown. These models did not originate from random sampling and no survey was done to
substantiate the uncderlying assumption.
The three activities presented in the SAR and -For which data were available at the project are Flour
Mill, Chicken Farm and Palm Oil Press. Actual data for two electrical flour mill projects showed
internal rates of return of 148% and 201% respectively compared to 15.7% for the SAR model.
Provided that the beneficiary groups were able to invest the required start-up amount, they would
collect respectively 4,494,000 and 2,530,350 CFAF in 10 years (i.e. an average of 449,400 and
253,035 CFAF respectively per year). Even if the two projects were to stop after only 4 years, the
IRR (137% and 196% respectively) would still be much higher than the 15% shown in the SAR,
resulting in cash benefits of 437,675 and 306,750 CFAF respectively per year. Going one step
further and including in the analysis the amount that has to be put aside in order to renew the
equipment at the end of the project (i.e. for depreciation), the two groups would still be able to renew
their equipment witLhout any outside funding.
What would have happened if the groups being financed had had to pay interest on the loan as was
originally the plan in the SAR? Profitability would still be assured because the net financial benefit
would still be positive and the computed IRR would respectively be 128% and 174%.
According to the "modeles de reference" presented, the manual or mechanized Palm Oil Press models
are even more profitable than the flour mill projects because, contrary to the model presented in the
SAR, they generate profits on their first year of operation. As all cash flows are positive no IRRs can
be calculated, the NPV being positive. The main difference with the assumptions of the SAR model
lies in the amount of sales made. The actual mechanized Palm Oil Press sells ten times more than the
SAR model. This compounds over the years tc end up generating benefits more than 10 times higher
(41,442,950 against 3,137,500 CFAF) in the case of the mechanized process. These figures are quite
astonishing!
However, when it comes to the Chicken Farm activity, the picture is not so encouraging. The IRR
computed for an operation lasting 10 years is negative (minus 2) and the cumulative cash flow for
this activity remains negative for 9 of the 10 years. It generates a very small profit of 23,600 CFAF
only on the I 0th year and the cash flow available at that time is far from being sufficient to allow the
activity to continue without external financing. This is too long for such a small profit and is very far
from the 55% IRR shown in the SAR. Here the difference lies in the size of the operating costs
which are about three times higher in the case of the actual figures. These figures show that, if the
project was to stop after 4 years, it would be a disaster with a debt load of more than CFAF 240,000
after the FIMAC loan has been repaid.



21
FLOUR MILL OPERATION
(Appraisal)
Year 1     Year 2    Year 3     Year 4   Year S    Year 6   Year 7  Year 8  Year 9   Year 10
(Units: CFAF)
Investment
Mill                       1,350,000
Transformer                80,000                                                                     0
Mill Installation          20,000
Buckets                                                    20,000                      20,000
F.R.
Sub-total                  1,450,000    0        0         20,000   0         0        20,000  0      0        0
Operating Costs
Electricity                18,000      36,000    36,000    36,000   36,000   36,000   36,000  36,000  36,000   36,000
Maintenance                7,200       14,400    14,400    14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400  14,400  14,400   14,400
Rent                       3,250       6,500     6,500     6,500    6,500    6,500    6,500   6,500   6,500    6,500
Bags                       6,000       12,000    12,000    12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000  12,000  12,000   12,000
Wages                      0           0         0
Miscellaneous (2%)
Sub-total                  34,450      68,900    68,900    68,900   68,900   68,900   68,900  68,900  68,900   68,900
Total Expenditures         1,484,450   68,900    68,900    88,900   68,900   68,900   88,900  68,900  68,900   68,900
Receipts
Milling Charges            144,000     288,000    360,000    360,000  360,000  360,000  360,000 360,000 360,000  360,000
Residual Value             5,760       11,520    14,400    14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400  14,400  14,400   14,400
Sub-total                  149,760     299,520   374,400    374,400  374,400  374,400  374,400 374,400 374,400  374,400
Cash Flow                  -1,334,690   230,620    305,500    285,500  305,500  305,500  285,500 305,500 305,500  305,500
Cumulated Cash Flow        -1,334,690  -1,104,070  -798,570   -513,070  -207,570  97,930   383,430 688,930 994,430  1,299,930
IRR for 8 years            15.73%
IRR for 4 years                       -20.31%
'.J7h Financing
FIMAC Contribution         870,000
Revised Cash Flow          -464,690    230,620    305,500   285,500  305,500  305,500  285,500 305,500 305,500  305,500
Reconstitution                         217,500   217,500   217,500  217,500
Balance Remaining          -464,690    13,120    88,000    68,000   88,000   305,500  285,500 305,500 305,500  305,500
Cumulative Balance Remaining  -464,690    -451,570   -363,570   -295,570  -207,570  97,930   383,430 688,930 994,430  1,299,930



22
FLOUR MILL OPERATION
(Actual figures: Group Forji Farmter's Youth de Loum Chantiers)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year,4    Year 5   Year 6     Year 7    Year 8     Year 9     Year 10
(Units: CFAF)
Investment
Mill                        550,000                                                                           550,000
Transformer                 120,000                                                                           0
Mill Installation           110,000                                                                           110,000
Buckets                     5,000              5,000               5,000                 5,000                5,000
FR.                         25,000
Sub-total                   810,000   0        5,000    0          5,000      0          5,000     0          665,000    0
Operating Costs
Electricity                 48,000   48,000   48,000   46,000      42,000     40,000    40,000     35,000     48,000     48,000
Maintenance                 60,000   60,000   60,000   70,000      80,000     100,000    100,000    100,000    60,000    60000
Rent                        60,000   60,000   60,000   60,000      60,000     60,000    60,000     60 000     60,000     60,000
Bags                        750       750      750      750        750        750        750       750        750        750
Wages                       0         0        0         120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000
Miscellaneous (2%)          3,750    3,750    3,750    3,750       3,750      4,400     4,400      4,100      3,750      3,750
Sub-total                   172,500   172,500  172,500   300,500    306,500    325,150    325,150    319,850    292,500    292,500
Total Expenditures          982,500   172,500  177,500  300,500    311,500    325,150    330,150    319,850    957,500    292,500
Receipts
Milling Charges             720,000  720,000  720,000   700,000    650,000    600,000    550,000    500,000    720,000    720,000
Residual Value                                                                                                100,000
Sub-total                   720,000   720,000  720,000   700,000    650,000    600,000    550,000    500,000    820,000    720,000
Cash Flow                   -262,500  547,500  542,500   399,500    338,500    274,850    219,850    180,150    -137,500   427,500
Cumulated Cash Flow         -262,500  285,000  827,500   1,227,000  1,565,500  1,840,350  2,060,200  2,240,350  2,102,850  2,530,350
IRR for 8 years             200.62%
IRR for 4 years                       195.82%
With Financing
FIMAC Contribution          500,000
Revised Cash Flow           237,500   547,500  542,500   399,500    338,500    274,850    219,850    180,150   -137,500   427,500
Reconstitution              200,000  200,000   100,000
Balance Remaining           37,500   347,500  442,500  399,500    338,500    274,850    219,850    180,150   -137,500   427,500
Cumulative Balance Remaining  37,500    385,000  827,500   1,227,000  1,565,500  1,840,350  2,060,200  2,240,350  2,102,850  2,530,350



23
FLOUR MILL OPERATION
(Actual figures: Group Toksl do Nkangsi Mbangs)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4     Year 5    Year6      Year7     Year 8    Year 9   Year 10
(Units: CFAF)
Investment
Mills                        950,000                                                                                    950,000
Transformer                  150,000                                                                                    0
Mill Installation            110,000                                                                                     110,000
F.R.                         47,500
Sub-total                    1,257,500  0        0          0         0         0          0         0         0        1,060,000
Operating Costs
Electricity                  97,200    97,200    97,200    97,200    97,200    95,000      90,000    90,000    85,000   80,000
Maintenance                  36,000    36,000    36,000    36,000    36,000    40,000    50,000    60,000    65,000   70,000
Rent                         72,000    72,000    72,000    72,000    72,000    72,000    72,000      72,000    72,000   72,000
Bags, etc.                   4,500     1,000     4,500      1,000     4,500     1,000      4,500     1,000     4,500    1,000
Wages                        120,000   120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000  120,000
Sub-total                    329,700    326,200    329,700    326,200    329,700    328,000    336,500    343,000    346,500  343,000
Total Expenditures           1,587,200  326,200    329,700    326,200    329,700    328,000    336,500    343,000    346,500  1,403,000
Receipts
Milling Charges              1,080,000  1,080,000  1,080,000  1,080,000  1,080,000  1,020,000  960,000    900,000    840,000  780,000
Residual Value                                                                                                          250,000
Sub-total                    1,080,000  1,080,000  1,080,000  1,080,000  1,080,000  1,020,000  960,000   900,000   840,000  1,030,000
Cash Flow                   -554,700   706,300    702,800   753,800   750,300    692,000    623,500    557,000   493,500  -373,000
Cumulated Cash Flow          -554,700   151,600   854,400    1,608,200  2,358,500  3,050,500  3,674,000  4,231,000  4,724,500 4,351,500
IRR for 9 years              127.88%
IRR for 4 years                        115.43%
With Financing
FIMAC Contribution           950,000
Revised Cash Flow            395,300   706,300   702,800   753,800    750,300   692,000    623,500    557,000   493,500  -373,000
Reconstitution               388,000   384,000    178,000
Balance Remaining            7,300     322,300    524,800    753,800    750,300    692,000   623,500    557,000   493,500  -373,000
Cumulative Balance Remaining   7,300   329,600    854,400    1,608,200  2,358,500  3,050,500  3,674,000  4,231,000  4,724,500 4,351,500



24
CHICKEN FARM
(Appraisal)
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3    Year 4      Year S    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9     Year 10
(Units: CFAF)
Investrnent
Building                   500,000
Equipment                  300,000                         300,000                        300,000
Sub-total                  800,000   0          0          300,000    0         0         300,000    0         0         0
Operating Costs
Chicks                     150,000   600,000    600,000   600,000     600,000   600,000   600,000   600,000   600,000   600,000
Feed                       504,000   2,016,000   2,()16,000  2,016,000   2,016,000  2,016,000  2,016,000  2,016,000  2,016,000  2,016,000
Veter-inary Products       50,000    200,000     200,000   200,000    200,000   200,000   200,000   200,000   200,000   200,000
Personnel                  15,000    60,000     60,000    60,000      60,000    60,000    60,000    60,000    60,000    60,000
Fuel                       0         0          0          0          0         0         0          0         0         0
Litter                     0         70,000      60,000    90,000     90,000    90,000    90,000    90,000    90,000    90,000
Sub-total                  719,000   2,946,000   2,956,000  2,966,000   2,966,000  2,966,000  2,966,000  2,966,000  2,966,000  2,966,000
Tota Ixpen ditures         1,519,000  2,946,000   2,'356,000  3,266,000   2,966,000  2,966,000  3,266,000  2,966,000  2,966,000  2,966,000
Sales                      0         3,360,000   3,840,000  4,320,000   4,320,000  4,320,000  4,320,000  4,320,000  4,320,000  4,320,000
Sub-total                  0         3,360,000   3,640,000  4,320,000   4,320,000  4,320,000  4,320,000  4,320,000  4,320,000  4,320.000
Cash Flow                  -1,519,000  414,000   664,000    1,054,000   1,354,000  1,354,000  1,054,000  1,354,000  1,354,000  1,354,000
Curmulated Cash Flow       -1,519,000  -1,105,000  -2:21,000   833,000  2,187,000  3,541,000  4,595,000  5,949,000  7,303,000  8,657,000
IRR for 10 years           54.72%
IRRfor4yearn                         21.80%
W7th Financing
FIMAC Contribution         911,400
Revised Cash Flow         -607,600   414,000    B84,000   1,054,000   1,354,000  1,354,000  1,054,000  1,354,000  1,354,000  1,354,000
Reconstitution             0         303,800    303,800   303,800
Balance Remaining          -607,600   110,200   580,200   750,200     1,354,000  1,354,000  1,054,000  1,354,W00  1,354,000  1,354,000
Cumulative Balance Remaining  -607,600  -497,400    82,800    833,000  2,187.000  3,541,000  4,595,000  5,949,000  7,303,000  8,657,000



25
CHICKEN FARM
(Actual Figures)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year t    Year 9    Year 10
(Units: CFAF)
Investment
Building                          425,000
Equipment                         142,000                                142,000                                           142,000
Sub-total                         567,000        0         0         0   142,000        0         0         0         0   142,000
Operating Costs
Chicks                            420,000   420,000   420,000   420,000   420,000   420,000   420,000   420,000   420,000   420,000
Feed                             1,230,000  1,230,000  1,230,000  1,230,000  1,230,000  1,230,000  1,230,000  1,230,000  1,230,000  1,230,000
Veterinary Products               150,000   150,000   150,000   150,000   150,000   150,000   150,000   150,000   150,000   150,000
Personnel                         210,000   210,000   210,000   210,000   210,000   210,000   210,000   210,000   210,000   210,000
Fuel                               30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000
Litter                             15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600    15,600
Sub-total                        2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600
Total Expenditures               2,622,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,197,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,055,600  2,197,600
Sales                            2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000
Sub-total                        2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000  2,137,000
Cash Flow                        -485,600    81,400    81,400    81,400   -60,600    81,400    81,400    81,400    81,400   -60,600
Cumulated Cash Flow               -485,600  -404,200  -322,800  -241,400  -302,000  -220,600  -139,200   -57,800    23,600   -37,000
IRR for I0 years                   -1.92%
IRR for 4 years                            -27.83%
With Financing
FIMAC Contribution                427,000
Revised Cash Flow                  -58,600    81,400    81,400    81,400   -60,600    81,400    81,400    81,400    81,400   -60,600
Reconstitution                    170,800   128,100   128,100
Balance Remaining                 -229,400   -46,700   -46,700    81,400   -60,600    81,400    81,400    81,400    81,400   -60,600
Cumulative Balance Remaining      -229,400  -276,100  -322,800  -241,400  -302,000  -220,600  -139,200   -57,800    23,600   -37,000



26
PALM OIL PRESS
(Appraisal)
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4   YearS      Year 6    Year 7     Year 8     Year9      Year 10
(Units: CFAF)
Investment
Press                         3,000,000
Building                      350,000
Sub-total                     3,350,000  0         0          0        0          0          0         0          0          0
Operating Costs
O & M Supplies                50,000     50,000    50,100     50,000   50,000     50,000     50,000    50,000     50,000     50,000
0 & M Labor                   0         37,500     75,0)00    75,000   75,000     75,000     75,000    75,000     75,000     75,000
Sub-total                     50,000    87,500     125,000    125,000   125,000    125,000    125,000    125,000    125000    125,000
Total Sxpenditures            3,400,000  87,500    125,000    125,000   125,000    125,000    125,000    125,000    125,000    125,000
Sales                         550,000    675,000    800,000    800,000  800,000    800,000    800,000    800,000    800,000    500,000
TonsFFBprocessed              50        75         100        100      100        100        100        100       100        100
LitersofOilextracted          7500      11250      15000      15000    15000      15000      15000     15000      15000      15000
Sub-total                     550,000    675,000    800,000    800,000  800,000    800,000    800,000    800,000    800,000    800,000
Cash Flow                     -2,850,000  587,500    675,000    675,000   675,000    675,000    675,000    675,000    675,000    675,000
Cumulated Cash Flow          -2,850,000  -2,262,500  -1,587,500  -912,500  -237,500   437,500    1,112,500  1,787,500  2,462,500  3,137,500
IRR for 10 years              17.80%
IRR for 4 years                         -16.76%
Wrth Financing
FIMAC Contribution            2,010,000
Revised Cash Flow            -840,000   587,500    675,000    675,000  675,000    675,000    675,000    675,000    675,000    675,000
Reconstitution                0         502,500    502,500    502,500  502,500
Balance Remaining             -840,000   85,000    172,500    172,500  172,500    675,000    675,000    675,000    675,000    675,000
Cumulative Balance Remaining   -840,000   -755,000   -582,500   -410,000  -237,500   437,500    1,112,500  1,787,500  2,462,500  3,137,500



27
PALM OIL PRESS
(Actual Figures)
Year I    Year 2    Year 3     Year 4    Year 5      Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10
(Units: CFAF)
Investment
Press                      3,370,550  6,000    6,000       126,000   6,000      6,000     126,000   6,000      6,000     3,170,500
Building                   400,000
Sub-total                  3,770,550  6,000    6,000       126,000   6,000      6,000     126,000   6,000      6,000     3,170,500
Operating Costs
Fuel & Lubricants          316,000   316,000   316,000     320,000   320,000    320,000   320,000   330,000   330,000   330,000
Maintenance                120,000   120,000    120,000    125,000   125,000    125,000   125,000   130,000   130,000   130,000
Supplies                   246,000   246,000   246,000     246,000   246,000    246,000   246,000   246,000   246,000   246,000
Containers                 30,000    30,000    30,000      30,000    30,000     30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000
Labor                      830,000   880,000   880,000     880,000   880,000    880,000   880,000   880,000   860,000   880,000
Taxes                      30,000    30,000    30,000      30,000    30,000     30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000
Sub-total                  1,622,000  1,622,000  1,622,000   1,631,000  1,631,000   1,631,000  1,631,000  1,646,000  1,646,000  1,646,000
Total Expenditures         5,392,550  1,628,000  1,628,000   1,757,000  1,637,000   1,637,000  1,757,000  1,652,000  1,652,000  4,816,500
Sales                      6,500,000  6,500,000  6,500,000   6,500,000  6,500,000   6,500,000  6,500,000  6,500,000  6,500,000  6,500,000
Tons FFB processed
Liters of Oil extracted
Sub-total                  6,500,000  6,500,000  6,500,000   6,500,000  6,500,000   6,500,000  6,500,000  6,500,000  6,500,000  6,500,000
Cash Flow                  1,107.450  4,872,000  4,872,000   4,743,000  4,863,000   4,863,000  4,743,000  4,848,000  4,848,000  1,683,500
Cumulated Cash Flow        1,107,450  5,979,450  10,851,450  15,594,450 20,457,450  25,320,450 30,063,450 34,911,450 39,759,450 41,442,950
IRR for 10 years           #NUM!
IRR for 4 years                      #NUM!
With Financing
FIMAC Contribution         1,000,000
Revised Cash Flow          2,107,450  4,872,000  4,872,000   4,743,000  4,863,000   4,863,000  4,743,000  4,648,000  4,848,000  1,683,500
Reconstitution             400,000   400,000   200,000
Balance Remaining          1,707,450  4,472,000  4,672,000   4,743,000  4,863,000   4,863,000  4,743,000  4,848,000  4,848,000  1,683,500
Cumulative Balance Remaining  1,707,450  6,179,450  10,851,450  15,594,450 20,457,450  25,320,450 30,063,450 34,911,450 39,759,450 41,442,950



28
TABLE 10: STATlUJS OF LEGAL COVENANI'S
Main      3.01                                                 Tile Born-ower shall:l
..  ~ ~ ~ '... _l._~.                                                                               I ~/\.~Jr   ..
3(0arry out Pa,ILs A, B (b) and C of fir rioJLc; tihUughi
(i)                                                  MINAGRI and Part E of the Project through
MINSANTE in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices and provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and othet resources required for such Parts of the
_____________  _ _ _ _  Project.                                                 __
3.01 (a)     10        C                             Cause UTAVA and CFC to perform all their
(ii)                                                 respective obligations set forth in the tlTAVA
Project Agreement and the CFC Project Agreement;
the Borrower shall also take or cause to be taken all
actions, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary to unable
UTAVA and CFC to perform such obligations.
3.01 (c)     10        C                             Make available to UTAVA on a grant basis the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories (8) and
(9) of the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule I
to this Agreement under a grant agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and UTAVA,
under terms and conditions which shall have been
l_____                _approved by the Bank.
3.01 (d)     10        C                             (i) make available to CFC, on a grant basis the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories ( I I ) of
the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule I to
this Agreement; and (ii) re-lend to CFC the proceeds
of the Loan allocated to Category (10) of said table,
tunder a subsidiary loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and C'FC, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the
lBank.



29
Main      3.02                                                 The Borrower shall:
3.02(a)      2         C                             Follow procurement provisions under Schedule 4    Procurement has been acceptable
although UJTAVA has faced difficulties
buying a plane and spare parts.
3.02 (b)               C                             Employ a specialized non-governmental            CARE was contracted to work on this
organization, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the part of the Project.
technical coordination of Part E of the Project.
Main      3.03          9                                       UTAVA and CFC shall carry out the obligations set
forthi in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions in respect of Part
B(a) and D of the Project, respectively, pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the UTAVA Project Agreement and
of the CFC Project Agreement.                                                         l
Main      4.01                                                 The Borrower shall:
4.01 (a)     I         C                             Maintain or cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
4.01 (b)      I        C                             Have the records and accounts referred to in section  Audits have been done by components
li)                                                  4.01 (a), including those for the Special accounts and until a decision was made to group all
those for the FIMAC Scheme under Part A of the    audits starting in July 98.
Project at the central, provincial and departmental
levels, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
.Bank.



30
Mainl      4.01 (b)         I         C                                  ForuliS  to tle n aik as sooi res available, but in anyw
(iti)                                                       case not later than six months after the end of eac: 
suc(  year, tha report 0fU  ch abmdit by said auditors,n
of sucri scope aatd il such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonab uy req oested.  f
Main        4 () 1 (c)      I         C                                  For all expenditures with respect to whichl
withdrawals from  the Credit Account were made onn
the  basis of statements of expenditure:;
(a) enbaiiltaih a or cause to be    ataivstained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and  accounts refecting such
i (ii) rctain, until at least one year after the Bank has
pareceived the audit sepondt for the fiscal year in
o siicu the last withdrawal from the Looan
Account or payso ent out of the Special Accounts
l                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~was made, all r-ecot-ds (contracts, orders,
l                           .                                  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iivoices, bills, receipts and other documenits)
evidencing sucit expenditure;        f
(iii) enable the  Bank's representatives to examine
l                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~suich records; anid
l                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(iv) ensLure that suchi records and accounits are
included in th    i a tiral apdit reprerred to in
para-raph (b) of this Section and that thd report
of sLuch auidit conitains a separate opinion by said
auiditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submnitted during sucli fiscal year,
tog,cther withi the procedLures anid internal
conitrols involved in their preparation, cani be
relied Llpon to sLupport thie related withdrawals.



31
Ag teme__t _____c___Date '                              Dte
Main      Schedule    10         C                            rhe Borrower shall, through MINAGRI, beginning  Work programs for 95/96 and 96/97
l          ~~~~5 November 1991 and thereafter not later than June 30 were received. For 97/98, work
l                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of eachi year, furnislh to the Bank, for its review and  program for FIMAC, the only
approval, in respect of the forthcoming year, detailed component fully active was received.
work programs, where applicable. In addition,
together with the detailed work programs and
budgets for Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through MINAGRI, furnish to the Bank an
evaluation report of activities undertaken during the
previous twelve-month period of FIMAC records
and accounts at the central, provincial and
departmental levels referred to in Section 4.01 of this
_______   Agreement.
CFC       2.02         9         C                            Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,      Bidding for the construction of tlhe
procurement of the goods works and consultants'   market for Foumba, Mbangante and
services required for Part D of the Project and to be  Meyo-Messala was done in accordance
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be    with Bank procedures, three more bids
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the  covering three markets were also donc
Loan Agreement.                                according to Bank procedures.
CFC       2.05 (b)     9         C                            CFC shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of Part D of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by CFC of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the CFC Subsidiary l oan
lAgreement.



32
Ci-c      3 .( I        SC                                       CF^C shiall carry oni its operations and conduct its    The Deputy Director is the head of thc  l
affaiils in accordance with sound admiinistrative,  project working with his staff.|
econiotiiic anid financial practices under thel
supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
| JT'AVA    2.05 (b)      9         C                              lJTAVA shall promptly inform the Bank of any      The Bank was informed by UTAVA in
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere   1994 of the loss of one of its aircrafts
with the progress of Part B (a) of the Project, the  destroyed by fire.
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by UTAVA of its obligations under this
Agreement and under thle lJTAVA Grant
Agreement.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                            8.   Indigenous people
2.    Financial performance/revenue generation   9. --Monitoring, review, and reporting
from beneficiaries                        10.   Project implementation not covered by
3.    Flow and utilization of project funds            categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                        11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. =  Management aspects of the project or             other resource allocation
executing agency                          12.   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6  =  Environmienital covenanits                       regulatory/inistitutionial action
7.    Involintary resettlemenit                 13.   Other
8  P'resent Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD   =       complied withl after delay
CP- complied with partially
NC   =       not complied with



33
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMIENT
No Major lack of compliance was observed.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
St_A_ ,                                    ..,. .                        AP:.i::
Weeks      US$ '000    Weeks    US$ 000    Weeks   US$ '000
Preparation to Appraisal          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0      68.0      133.4
Appraisal                         0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0      84.6      183.4
Negotiations through Board       16.5         22.8       0.0          0.0      28.0        66.7
Supervision                      72.6        138.7      97.9        164.7    239.8       436.0
Completion                        5.0          9.1         5          9.1       5.3        12.2
Total                            94 1        170.6    102.9         173.8    425.7       831.7
Source: World Bank Cost Accounting System (FACT. March 1999).
The staff weeks planned in the appendix to the SAR are different from what has been compiled in the
FACT database. In order to keep original, revised and actual data comparable, the figures shown here are
the ones retrieved from the FACT database.



34
TABLE 13: BANkh RESOURCES: MISSIONS
AgRim~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Stage o  Moutb/NumberDays   Spcialize    Partiipated  mplemeDevelopmaent  Types of
Through         N/A
Appraisal
Appraisal       N/A
through Board
approval       ___
Board approval   N/A
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1    04/92      1                 AG             Y           !
Supervision 2    01/93     2      21.0      AG,CO           Y,N          I           I         TA. TP
Supervision 3    11/93     3      22.0    EC(,RD,CO        Y,Y,N         1          2            FC
Supervision 4    04/94      1     18.0        EC             Y                      2        PR,TA.TR
Supervision 5    09/94     4            NG,CO,EC,RD    Y,Y,Y,Y          S           HS
Supervision 6    0:3/96    3      45.0    OA,EC,EC         N,Y,N        U           S         OC, PM
Supervision 7    09/96     3      45.0    EC,EC,AE         Y,Y,N        U           S         OC, PM
Supervision 8    0:3/97    2      24.0      AE,AE           Y,N         U           S            PR
Supervision 9    07/97     2      14.0      RD,AE           N,Y          S          S            PR
Supervision 10   11/97     2      12.0      RD,NG           Y,Y          S          S
Supervision II   06/98     3      35.0    R[),AE,MF        Y,Y,N        U           U        FC,ME,PR
Completion      1:2/98     4      25.0  RD,AE,MF,NG    Y,Y,Y,Y          U           U        ME,PM,PR
Key to Status
Performance Raiig,g          Specialized Stalf               Types of Problems
I = Problem Free               AG: Agriculturalist           FC: Financial Covenants
HS = Highly Satisfactory    AE: Agricultural Economist        LC: Legal Covenants
2= Moderate Plroblems            CO: Consultant           ME: Monitoring and Evaluation
3= Major Problems                EC: Economist              OC: Other Legal Covenants
S= Satisfactory            MF: Micro-Finance Specialist      PM: Project Management
US= Unsatisfactory             NG: NGC) Specialist              PR: Procurement
NA: Not available.           OA: Operations Analyst            ST: Studies Progress
RD: Rural Development          TA: Technical Assistance
Specialist
TP: Training Progress



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(LOAN 3388-CM)
5. APPENDIX A: MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
PROJET SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE - PRET 3388-CM
Mission de supervision du 2 au 7 novembre et du 17 novembre au ler decembre 1998
Objectifs de la mission
1.    Une mission de supervision et de preparation du rapport de fin de projet s'est deroulee au
mois de novembre 1998. Cette mission avait pour but: (i) de superviser les activites de la demiere
composante en execution, le FIMAC (ii) de planifier les etapes de cloture des comptes provinciaux et
d'arret des activites du projet au 31 decembre 1998 (iii) de collecter le maximum d'information au
titre de la preparation du rapport de fin de projet. Le rapport de fin de projet sera consolide par une
mission en fevrier 1999, apres cloture des comptes du FIMAC. Le present aide-memoire se
ddcompose en deux parties, l'une relative a la supervision du projet, l'autre resumant les observations
relatives au rapport de fin de projet.
Deroulement de la mission
2.     La mission s'est deroulee en plusieurs temps pour bdn6ficier du passage au Cameroun de
Guy Bedard, en appui A d'autres programmes:
a) Du 2 au 7 novembre G. Bedard, specialiste en micro-finance a supervise les activites de transfert
des groupes FIMAC, A Yaounde et dans les provinces du Centre et de l'Ouest.
b) Les 17 et 18 novembre, la mission, composee de J. Delion, C. Ndomb, G. Minang, H. Ndjebet et
A. Mani a lance le processus de preparation du rapport de fin de projet de la Banque Mondiale: Elle
a particip6 a une s6ance de presentation du rapport provisoire de fin de projet 6labore par la DEPA.
Elle a rencontre le Directeur de la Cooperation Economique et Technique du Ministere des
Investissements Publics, le Ministre de l'Agriculture, le Directeur de la DEPA, le Directeur du
Developpement Communautaire et du Genie Rural et les responsables des composantes du projet.
Elle a indique le besoin de foumir des informations supplementaires, et, particulierement, des
indicateurs chiffr6s. Parallelement, dans le cadre de la supervision des activit6s du projet, ils ont
participe A un seance de programmation des dernieres missions de terrain des equipes FIMAC et ils
ont clarifie les demieres etapes 1iees A la livraison d'equipement d'UTAVA. La mission a egalement
tenu une seance de travail avec le Representant Resident de la Banque Mondiale au Cameroun.



36
c) Du 26 novembre au ler d6cembre, la mission a approfondi 1'analyse des activites et des resultats
de chaque responsable, avec les responsables de chaque composante, en mettant l'accent sur la
collecte d'indications chiffrees.
d) Le ler decembre, le present aide-memoire a, et revu et amende au cours d'une reunion prdsidce
par le Directeur de la Coop6ration Economique et Technique du Ministere des Investissements
Publics. Le meme jour, la mission a egalement participe A une reunion sur les perspectives de
d6veloppement des systemes financiers decentralises, sous la presidence du Directeur de la Division
des Etudes et Projets Agricoles. Les listes des participants A ces deux reunions sont jointes en
annexe. Le meme jour, enfin, la mission a ete re,cu en audience par le Ministre de I'Agriculture et a
presente le present aide-memoire.
3.     La mission remercie le Ministre de I'Agriculture, le Directeur de la Cooperation Economique
et Technique du Ministere des Investissements Publics, les personnalites, les cadres et les membres
des groupes rencontres. Tous les participants ont exprime une forte motivation A poursuivre les
activites engag6es apres la fin du projet. Les actions convenues pendant la mission sont resumees
dans le texte qui suit et dans l'annexe. Elles devront etre confirm6es par la Direction de la Banque
Mondiale.
PREPARATION DU RAPPORT DE FIN DE ]PROJET
Etat d'avancement du rapport de fin de proje1: de 1'emprunteur
4.     La mission a participe A une seance de presentation du rapport provisoire de fin de projet
prepare par la DEPA. La mission a constate que l'equipe de la DEPA avait visite plusieurs provinces
et rencontre les agences d'execution et des beneficiaires de chaque composante du projet. Elle a
constate que les composantes n'etaient pas parvenues A fournir des indications chiffr6es necessaires
pour soutenir une evaluation des resultats du projet. La mission a coopere avec 1'equipe de la DEPA
pour collecter ces infonnations chiffrees aupres de chaque composante.
Taches complimentaires pour la finalisation dii rapport de fin de projet
5.     La mission a conduit une analyse d6taill6e de la situation de chaque composante, et a partag6
ses observations avec 1'6quipe de la DEPA. Compte tenu de l'insuffisance d'indicateurs chiffres, la
mission n'a pas r6dige immediatement de texte final. La mission a convenu que l1'quipe responsable
de la preparation du rapport de fin de projet A la mission residente poursuivrait sa cooperation avec
1'equipe de la DEPA. pour la collecte d'indicateurs chiffres et pour l'evaluation des resultats du
projet, notamment pour l'analyse des effets economiques. Un calendrier des 6tapes de finalisation a
e  prepare: la DEPA devrait remettre son rapport avant le 151/1999. L'6quipe de la Banque
Mondiale devrait remettre un premier jet de son rapport avant le 31/1/1999.
Principales observatilons sur l'ensemble du projet et sur chaque composante
6.     Un consensus s'est developpe entre la mission de la Banque, les responsables de la DEPA et
la Direction de la Cooperation Economique et Technique du Ministere des Investissements Publics
sur les point principaux qui suivent. Ces observaltions sont provisoire, elles devront etre confirmees
par la Direction de la Banque Mondiale. Dans tous les cas, elles sont d'ordre general, elles devront
etre confirmees par chacune des parties dans son rapport de fin de projet.



37
Contexte
7.     Le projet doit etre per,u dans son contexte: en 1989, le Gouvernement du Cameroun (GDC)
s'engageait dans un pret d'Ajustement structurel. La meme annee, une dtude de revue du secteur
agricole orientait les actions de la Banque mondiale vers des actions sectorielles telles que le soutien
A la securit6 alimentaire. le projet Securite Alimentaire etait concu comme l'un des moyens de limiter
les effets de l'ajustement structurel sur les populations defavorisees. Le projet s'inserait dans une
politique nationale de securite alimentaire; il visait A initier ou a consolider des activites dans
differents domaines: soutien A la production et aux revenus de groupes A risques, mise au point d'un
systeme d'alerte sur la situation nutritionnelle, test de methodes d'education nutritionnelle, tests de
mise en place de marches sur financements bancaires, soutiens aux activitds de protection des
cultures contre les acridiens et les oiseaux granivores dans les provinces du Nord. Le projet a e
execute dans un contexte difficile: il a et gravement affecte par les reductions des salaires des
fonctionnaires, suivis par les effets de la d6valuation du FCFA et par les effets de la reduction du
montant du pret (50% en 1996 cette reduction a 6te decidee en raison du fait que le Cameroun etait
devenu eligible au guichet IDA, et que les deboursements etaient tres lents. Le Ministere de
I'Agriculture a rappele que ce montant avait ete annule dans la perspective de la mise en place d'un
autre projet de finances rurales sur fonds IDA et que ceci n'a pas ete fait.
RWsumn des observations sur les objectifs et les resultats de chaque composante
Composante micro-projets (FIMAC)
8.     OBJECTIFS: Cette composante etait la plus importante du projet en terme de financement.
L'objectif g6neral etait de creer des opportunites d'emplois et d'augmenter la pouvoir d'achat de
groupes ruraux d6favorises, en particulier les femmes, en vue d'accroitre leur acces aux produits
alimentaires. Dans le contexte decrit ci-dessus, ces objectifs se sont precises dans une dimension plus
sociale qu'economique: Il n'y avait pas de reference claire sur des modeles de financement du
monde rural et le projet se situait entre la lutte contre la pauvrete et le developpement de systemes
financiers viables. Les financements mis en place etaient intermediaires entre des micro-credit et des
fonds sociaux: la categorie dite "prets commerciaux" avec taux d'interet du marche, n'a jamais
fonctionne. Le projet s'est limite A des petits prets contribuant A la s6curite alimentaire et A 96 petites
infrastructures villageoises. En l'absence d'interets, les financements de petits prets n'dtaient donc
pas de veritables prets. Ils ont ete consentis sur des periodes relativement longues (souvent 4 ans) et
il n'y avait pas d'incitations majeures a rembourser dans les delais, en 1'absence d'int6r8ts de retard.
Dans ces conditions, ces financements se rapprochaient davantage d'un fonds social pour limiter les
effets de l'ajustement structurel, avec un objectif de formation des emprunteurs par experience de
premiers investissements A credit. L'objectif majeur de cette composante etait de soutenir la
production et les revenus de populations A risque, de les entrainer dans l'utilisation de services
financiers et de les aider A se relier aux systemes financiers forrnels en fin de projet.
9.     RESULTATS: Cette composante a atteint l'objectif specifique ci-dessous: en terme de
beneficiaires, l'objectif a et6 depasse, environ 30.000 familles, membres de 2.700 groupes, ont
am6liore leurs productions alimentaires et leurs revenus en utilisant les financements du projet. De
plus, environ 10.000 familles ont beneficie d'ameliorations d'infrastructures villageoises, A travers 96
projets d'infrastructures. Le projet a connu des ralentissements importants A cause de lourdeurs de
procedures de gestion des fonds. II a ete affecte par un decouragement des populations et des cadres
quand les deboursements ont et suspendus en 1996: les agents se sont demobilisds, les populations
ont considere que "le FIMAC etait termine" et les taux de remboursements ont fortement chute. Les



38
activites ont repris plus lentement par la suite, mais les performances 6taient faibles.  Le
decouragement a e  profond, car plus de 2500 dossiers avaient ete prepares par les groupes, instruits
par les agents FIMAIC et agrees par les commissions provinciales. Les agents se sont alors trouves en
butte A des critiques rmassives des populations qui les accusaient d'avoir monte des dossiers pour rien.
Ces 2500 demandes dejA agreees sont toujours en recherche de financement, elles vont se retoumer
progressivement vers les nouvelles IMF qui ont pris le relais des financements FIMAC.
10.    Le projet a egalement atteint ses objectifs de formation A l'usage de credits: les membres des
groupes ont et formes, et, pour plus des trois quarts, ils ont bien maitris6 l'utilisation de credits et la
gestion des remboursements. Le projet n'a pas atteint un niveau de remboursement satisfaisant dans
toutes les provinces. Certaines provinces affichent des taux de 90% tandis que d'autres ont des taux
de 65%. En moyenne, le niveau de remboursement est nettement insuffisant. Le projet ne pretendait
pas niettre en place un systeme durable de micro-credit, et il s'est contente de soutenir des
populations A risques et de les aider A "migrer" vers des institutions de micro-finance en fin de projet.
Ce transfert a 6te concu et mis en oeuvre trop tard, dans les deux dernieres annees du projet. Mais le
projet a reussi a transferer les fonds rotatifs de l'ensemble des 2700 groupes beneficiaires de cr6dits
productifs (1,7 milliard FCFA) A des institutions de micro-finance qui offrent des perspectives de
quadnipler l'offre de volume de credit. Le projet n'est pas parvenu a impliquer des banques
commerciales dans 1'execution de tests de credit commercial au taux du marche. Ces aspects avaient
.t6 mal apprecies au moment de 1'6valuation du projet. La mission a considere qu'il s'agissait IA
d'une indication sur la difficult6 de meler des fonds sociaux sans inter& avec des fonds de micro-
credit, dans un meme projet. La mission s'est inquiete du fait que le transfert A des IMF s'est fait trop
rapidement au cours de la derniere annee, et surtout au cours des demiers mois: ces transferts sont
tres fragiles, le GDC a entame des negociations avec des bailleurs bailleurs pour assurer un
financement relais en 1999 pour soutenir le suivi des IMF dans leur gestion des fonds transferes.
ETAT D'AVANCEMENT DES OPERATIONS DE TRANSFORMATION DES FONDS
ROTATIFS VILLAGEOIS FIMAC EN FONDS FIDUCIAIRES GERES PAR DES INSTITUTIONS
DE MICRO-FINANCE
11.    Les fonds roi;atifs des groupes FIMAC sont en cours de transformation par contrats A des
Institutions de Micro-Finance (IMF) selectionnees par les groupes et agrees par le projet. Les
sommes seront utilis,&es par ces IMF comme fonds fiduciaires pour soutenir leurs operations de
credits rural. Les signatures de contrats sont bien entamees elles se poursuivent a un rythme rapide
dans toutes les provinces. Elles devraient etre terminees mi-decembre 1998. Un demier seminaire
est ensuite prevu les 29 et 30 decembre, pour consolider le r6le des agents FIMAC dans le suivi de
gestion de ces fonds liduciaires dans les IMF. Le tableau qui suit resume la ventilation des groupes
FIMAC dans leur "arrimage" A des IMF:
Caisses      Caisses     COOPEC        Caisses    COOPEC   ONGs pour   Total
CAMCCUL    MC2 de          aidees par   villa,e;eoises  autonomes  infrastruc.
CCEI -Bank  CAMCCUL         CIDR                   villageoises
954          147          708           57          785          222       2874



39
Composante d'education Nutritionnelle:
12.    OBJECTIFS: L'objectif de cette composante 6tait d'am6liorer les pratiques alimentaires des
groupes A haut risques d'insecurite alimentaire, les femmes enceintes et allaitantes et les enfants de
moins de cinq ans.  Dans ce cadre, les objectifs specifiques etaient d'aider des equipes
pluridisciplinaires A conduire des recherches sur la situation nutritionnelle des populations A risques,
et A tester des methodes d'education nutritionnelle adaptees A ces populations A risque.
13.    RESULTATS:  Dans un premier temps, le projet s'est concentre sur des actions de
sensibilisation de responsables provinciaux, de constitution d'6quipes composees de representants de
plusieurs ministeres, d'acquisition de materiel et de realisation de recherches quantitatives et
qualitatives, etalees sur un A deux ans sur trois regions. En 1995 le projet a et gravement affecte par
une demobilisation des agents qui ne voyaient pas venir les equipements prevus et qui etaient frapp6s
par la devaluation. Le projet a modifie sa strategie, il s'est appuye davantage sur les leaders
communautaires: des actions massives ont ete entreprises apres une phase d'essai en fin 1995, en
appui sur des methodes et des materiels pedagogiques bien adaptes: au total 580.000 personnes ont
beneficie de ces actions dans 51 aires de sante en zones rurales (dans l'Ouest, I'Est et l'extreme
Nord) et en zone urbaine (A Douala dans le Littoral). La mission a considerd que cette composante a
atteint globalement ses objectifs, malgre un demarrage tres lent: le projet a developpe une strategie et
des methodes efficaces d'6ducation nutritionnelle au niveau communautaire. La mission a not6 que
des ONGs et des programmes d'aide bilaterale ont commence a utiliser les services des equipes
concemres et que des groupes engages dans ces actions continuent leurs efforts, avec l'appui de leurs
infirmiers, particulierement au milieu des populations les plus d6favoris6es dans l'Extreme-Nord. La
mission a prevu que le plan d'operations precisera les modalites de poursuite des activites, en
impliquant autant que possible des equipes puridisciplinaires.
Composante de lutte contre les acridiens et les oiseaux granivores
14.    OBJECTIFS: L'objectifde cette composante etait de contribuer a la reduction des effets des
attaques d'acridiens et d'oiseaux granivores sur les cerdales dans la partie Nord du pays. Les
objectifs specifiques etaient de contribuer A une restructuration de l'organisme de traitement aerien
(UTAVA) et de le soutenir par l'achat d'equipement.
15.    RESULTATS: en terme de restructuration de l'UTAVA, le projet a obtenu de bons resultats:
Les etudes preparatoires A la restructuration de l'UTAVA ont ete executees, et les conclusions de ces
etudes ont e appliquees: En 1990, 1'UTAVA dependait A 80% de financements de l'etat. En 1998
il depend seulement A 20% de ces financements. Le personnel a ete reduit et bien formd a ses taches.
la structure est plus efficace. En termes de protection des cultures, le projet n'a pas obtenu de
resultats significatifs durant la plus grande partie du projet: pendant cette periode, I'etat n'a plus mis
de produits de traitements A la disposition de l'UTAVA. Une crise importante est survenue en 1997,
elle a necessite des soutiens exterieurs majeurs et le GDC a consolide sa strategie dans ce domaine.
En 1998 l'UTAVA a retrouve des stocks importants de produits (50.000 litres de produits anti-
acridiens et 5.0001 de produits contre les oiseaux granivores) ces stocks representent plusieurs anndes
d'avance. Le GDC a entame lune restructuration juridique et financiere de l'UTAVA, dans des
conditions qui preservent les aspects de services de protection des cultures contre les acridiens et les
oiseaux granivores. L'UTAVA a beneficie de formations importantes pour son personnel, il va
beneficier d'un avion monoplace de traitement agricole debut 1999, il est donc en bonne position
pour participer A la protection des cultures dans le Nord du Pays.



40
Composante de systeme d'alerte rapide
16.    OBJECTIFS:   l'objectif de cette composante  etait d'amdliorer l'efficacite  de  la
commercialisation et du stockage des produits alimentaires. L'objectif specifique etait d'ameliorer la
collecte et la diffusion d'informations sur les quantites et les prix de produits alimentaires sur les
marches et d'analyser les informations pour mettre en place un systeme d'alerte rapide sur
l'insecurite alimentaire.
17.    RESULTATS: Le projet a commence relativement lentement, en appui sur un dispositif
assez lourd de collecte d'infornation. II a evolue en 1995, il a ensuite beneficie d'un appui important
de la FAO, finance par un don japonais au titre du present projet. Cette assistance de la FAO a
permis la mise en place d'un systeme efficace de collecte de donnees par des agents de vulgarisation.
Des chefs d'antenne dans chaque province traitent ensuite ces donnees, qui sont ensuite consolidees
au niveau national. Le systeme distribue l'informtation dans 56 marches (marches ruraux, marches de
collecte, marches urbains, marches frontaliers) et par la radio rurale. Cette diffusion est utilisee par
les commer,ants et les producteurs. Le systeme integre les tubercules et les feculents. Cette
composante a egalement effectue un suivi des groupes A risques. Elle a permis de declencher deux
alertes concemant des situations d'insecurite alimentaire. La derni&e alerte a permis d'avancer d'un
mois environ la reponse a la situation de crise et de limiter s6rieusement les effets de cette situation.
Cette composante a donc globalement atteint les resultats escomptes malgre un demarrage assez lent.
Les performances de ces services sont appreciees par differents programmes: le SNAR est soutenu
par une dotation speciale de l'etat, il a signe des conventions avec des societes de developpement
regional, avec la SOI)ECOTON pour l'information sur tous les marches de la zone cotonniere, avec
I'IRAD (sur les fruits et legumes) avec le CRBP (sur la banane) avec le PNUD (pour la cartographie
des groupes a risques), avec l'ADIE pour le suivi des produits reglementes et proteges.
Composante de consitructions de marches sur financement bancaire
18.    OBJECTIFS: L'objectif general etait de tester des methodes d'accroissement des capacites
de commercialisation et de stockage des denrees alimentaires par la construction ou renovation
d' infrastructures de rnarche sous forme de financement bancaire, par la canal du Credit Foncier du
Cameroun.
19.    RESULTATS:  Cette composante a egalement commence tres lentement; le concept de
financement de marches sur prets des commtnes avait ete lance dans le cadre du projet de
developpement urbain et des essais avaient ete faits dans deux grandes villes, A Bertoua et A Belabo,
avec un soutien important en terme de formation des agents locaux et d'appuis A la gestion. L'id6e
n'a pas rencontre beaucoup d'echos au cours ctes premieres annees du projet, le CFC a surtout
effectue des sensibilisations. Trois marches ont finalement e  finances et r6alises en 1996 et trois
autres en 1997. Les premiers marches ont ete mis en place sans negociation prealable des contrats et
conditions d'utilisation et sans participation importante des futurs utilisateurs.  Deux des trois
premiers marches ont rencontre des difficultes majeures A cause de changements d'equipes de gestion
dans les municipalites et de rivalites internes sur le choix du site. Ceci est intervenu au moment ou
les communes faisaLient l'apprentissage de l'ouverture et de l'alternance politique, avec le
developpement du multipartisme. Des nouvelles equipes ont rejete les projets de leurs predecesseurs
et ont critique les sites retenus. Neanmoins un niarchU fonctionne normalement. Les trois marches
construits en 1997 ont ete acheves en 1998, il est trop t6t pour donner un avis sur leur
fonctionnement. Dans l'ensemble, les resultats de cette composante sont faibles. Pourtant, sur le
fonds, le test est positif: Le principal probleme semble &tre le risque de changement d'equipe a la t@te



41
des municipalites. Dans des villes ou il semble y avoir une certaine stabilite, ce type d'investissement
apparait maintenant comme possible. Le CFC finance actuellement 4 autres constructions sur ses
fonds propres, ce qui montre que le test a eu des consequences positives. Le CFC a appris a evaluer
les risques politiques en impliquant A l'avance les populations concernees, par exemple pour le choix
du site, les modalit6s d'utilisation, les conditions de paiement de taxes de marche, etc.
Observations generales sur les aspects institutionnels
20.    Le projet a et difficile A gerer, avec cinq composantes relativement autonomes, conduites
sans veritable coordination: le montage institutionnel etait complexe, la coordination n'a pas et
facile A mettre en oeuvre, entre plusieurs instituions relevant de ministeres differents. Elle a et
particulierement difficile avec le CFC. Le projet manquait d'indicateurs precis permettant de suivre
les activites des diff6rentes composantes. Les coats de fonctionnement du projet avaient et sous-
estimes: le budget de fonctionnement du MINAGRI, par exemple, est passe de 250.000 US$ A
1.000.000 US$. Le fonctionnement du projet a e  lent, le projet a eu du mal a maitriser les
procedures de gestion de la Banque Mondiale. Les rapports d'audit ont et tres critiques au milieu du
projet, des mesures ont ete prises pour renforcer le contr6le de gestion, par exemple par la mise en
place d'un cabinet prive en contr6le interne de gestion. Neanmoins, ce montage institutionnel a eu
des avantages: il a pernis d'impliquer plus de 130 cadres fonctionnaires de niveau ingenieur, dont 90
pour la composante de micro-credits. II a profondement marque ces agents qui ont accompagne, par
exemple, les micro-credits des petits groupes. II a mis en valeur des dimensions de couits et de
rentabilit6 des innovations agricoles, auparavant mal maitris6es.
Plan d'operations apres projet
21.    Le Ministre de 1'Agriculture et le Directeur Gen6ral de la cooperation ont rappele A la
mission que toutes les dispositions ont ete prises pour assurer la suite des activites apres la fin du
projet. Le plan d'operation pr6cisera les activites prevues. Par exemple, les fonds rotatifs du FIMAC
(1,7 milliard de FCFA) sont en securite, ils sont geres par des IMF priv6es, ils sont suivis par les
autorites provinciales sans aucune interference dans leur gestion. Dans ce sens, les acquis du projet
seront preserves. La mission a esquisse les lignes du plan d'operations pour chaque composante,
elles seront finalisees avant le 31/1/98.
22.    Neanmoins, le Ministre de 1'Agriculture et le Directeur General de la Cooperation du
Ministere du Plan ont rappele qu'ils souhaiteraient vivement la poursuite des appuis de la Banque
Mondiale dans le domaine de la securite alimentaire. Une demande ecrite a deja e  transmise en ce
sens en juin 1997, et cette demande a ete formellement rappelee par le Ministre de l'Agriculture a
chaque mission de supervision depuis juillet 1997. Le Ministere de l'Agriculture a rappele qu'il a
donne son accord sur la l'evolution recente de la reglementation bancaire, A condition que des
moyens soient mis en place pour soutenir son application, sous forme d'un projet de soutien en
micro-finance. Le Ministere de l'Agriculture a organise une seance de travail sous la presidence du
Directeur de la DEPA, avec la participation d'un responsable de la Direction de la Cooperation
Economique et Technique du Ministere des Investissements Publics et des bailleurs dans ce domaine.
Cette reunion a revu l'etat des programmes en cours dans le domaine de la micro-finance. Le compte
rendu de cette seance de travail est joint en annexe 2. Il est ressorti des besoins importants sur les
axes suivants:



42
23.    Developpement de capacites et reglementation d'IMF priv6es:
(i) Appuis de formation et d'information sur la reglementation.
(ii) Appuis A la mise en oeuvre des enregistrements et des contr6les.
(iii) Soutien au developpement d'IMF dans des provinces oui aucun bailleur n'intervient.
(iv) Soutiens A des prestataires de formatlion aux agents des IMF sur 1'ensemble du pays.
(v) Poursuite de soutiens A des COOPEC actuellement appuyees par CAMCCUL.
(vi) Besoin dle preciser ces appuis dans une programmation des appuis au developpement de
services de micro-finance, avec des details par region.
24.   DNveloppement de petites infrastructures rurales:
Soutiens A des mecanismes decentralises de financement d'infrastructures villageoises
variees: infrastructures de soutien A la production et infrastructures d'amelioration des conditions de
vie comme les amenagements de points d'eau et la construction de maisons communautaires. Ces
soutiens pourraient se traduire par la fourniture de financements sous forme de subventions sous
condition d'apports importants des communautes, dans le prolongement des resultats positifs obtenus
par le FIMAC: 96 petites infrastructures ont ainsi ete realis6es A titre de test, avec des apports en
nature variant de 10 a 30% et des apports en esp&ces variant de 5 A 10%. Dans leur grande majorite,
ces infrastructures sont bien entretenues, et 72%/c des comites villageois concernes sont A jour dans
leurs versements a des comptes d'amortissement des infrastructures; ces comptes sont tenus
separement des comptes de fonctionnement des infrastructures; les versements sont effectues sur des
comptes d'epargne specifiques au nom des comites, ils sont bloques pour toute la periode
d'amortissement, ils sont places sous le contr6le des comites provinciaux de developpement.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(LOAN 3388-CM)
6. APPENDIX B: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
SUMMARY REPORT
I.    Project Preparation
I.    After a period of strong economic growth from  1980 to 1985, Cameroon suffered an
unprecedented economic crisis marked by deteriorating terms of trade and a drop in oil production,
exacerbated by disastrous economic management. Government interventionism was also very
damaging. In order to control the dysfunctional effects that the crisis was having on the overall
macroeconomic picture, Cameroon signed an agreement in September 1988 with the IMF to
implement macroeconomic stabilization measures.  In 1989, the country signed a structural
adjustment loan agreement with the World Bank which was to take up where stabilization efforts had
left off. It was in this environment of economic stagnation that the project was identified and
prepared.
HI.    Evaluation of project implementation
2.     The project's initial overall goal was to improve the country's food security. In order to
achieve this goal, the project had the following specific objectives: (i) create job opportunities and
increase the buying power of disadvantaged rural groups, especially women, in order to increase their
access to foodstuffs; (ii) reduce the impact of crop parasites; (iii) increase the efficiency of marketing
and storage of food products; (iv) improve food preparation practices and dietary habits of such high
risk groups as pregnant and lactating women and children under the age of five. These specific
objectives were manifested in each of the project's five components.
III.   Achievement of objectives
3.     The general observation is that the various accomplishments made here and there bear little
relation to the main objective of improving the population's food security, and more particularly to
the goal of overcoming the constraints inherent in food distribution. Such is the case with the CFC
component: there has been almost no financing of conservation/storage structures for foodstuffs.
4.    In addition, there was no close collaboration from a technical standpoint between the various
components that were supposed to contribute to the Project's overall objective.  This lack of



44
monitoring, attributable to the fact that the CON1,AN was put on the back burner, also contributed to
the deviation from initial objectives.
5.    Attainment of the global objective can therefore be considered unsatisfactory.  This
observation needs to be nuanced, however, when one considers each component separately.
6.    Crop forecasts were fulfilled for the country's western provinces, which are more or less
permanently exposed to vagaries of all kinds. Information on the status of the cropping season was
regularly collected and made available to donors and decision-makers. However, some weakness
was sometimes observed at the level of the authorities responsible for mobilizing resources to deal
with emergencies: thus, the warning of a locust invasion that caused serious food shortages in the Far
North province was issued in a timely manner, but the corresponding measures were not immediately
taken.
7.    Concerning the monitoring of food markets, each week the national radio system broadcasts
information on prices and marketed volumes on 56 markets (rural or base-level, urban or consumer,
and border). Data thus collected and disseminated helps economic actors identify zones with deficits
or overflows, and helps stimulate the flow of foodstuffs among different zones and stabilize supply.
In addition, the surveillance of border markets m.akes it possible to assess the volume of imports vis-
a-vis exports, and thus to better evaluate the availability of food within the country.
8.    In the opinion of the SNAR managers met in the field, however, more urban than rural
markets are being monitored. Since rural markets are the ones closest to production zones, this
means that there is no accurate information on the quantities being produced. In addition, the
broadcast of prices noted on urban markets sometimes causes the price of certain foodstuffs to rise on
rural markets, an indication of a faulty perception of market information on the part of farmers.
9.    Groups at risk for food insecurity are being monitored in the three high-risk provinces,
namely East, North and Far North. This monitoring is done on a monthly basis and supplies
decision-makers withi information on the food sitWation of at-risk groups.
10.   At the time of its appraisal, the stated objective of the CFC component, which is concerned
with food security, was to increase food marketing and storage capacities. One indication of a
deviation from the objective was the fact that the only criterion considered in selecting project
dossiers was immediate financial return. Indeecl, the World Bank required a 15% rate of return on
projects. A financial institution such as the CFC could do nothing more than see that this stipulation
was respected, since it was a condition of the Bank's non-objection to a loan.
11.   In addition, the CFC's cumbersome procedures and the poor fit between the project selection
criteria and the realities prevailing within the mayoral offices of Cameroon meant that only 6 markets
were financed instead of the 30 or 40 that had been planned. Only two (2) outreach seminars for
mayors' offices were organized with prior World Bank consent, at a total cost of 21 million CFAF.
This outreach effort was insufficient given the fact that the mayors' offices had no prior familiarity
with credit issues.
12.   The mayors' offices received no support in resolving difficulties associated with
implementing feasibility studies, due to a lack of human and financial resource in almost all districts.
In addition, over 30% of the counterpart funds demanded were difficult to mobilize for small
districts, given their totally deficitary financial situation. As a result, the credit line intended to



45
finance market infrastructures could not be fully used; this resulted in an additional exchange rate risk
and generated more debt service for the Government vis-a-vis the World Bank.
13.   The objective of improving dietary practices was attained overall. More specifically, impact
indicators obtained from the baseline survey and the internal evaluation after two years of
implementation show a clear and generally positive trend in behaviors between the base year (1994)
and the test year (1997). The relevant figures are provided in an appendix. In addition, in places
where the reaction was weak, it is apparent that this situation was caused by economic constraints.
14.   Regarding impact indicators of an increase in the population's nutritional knowledge, the
initial appraisal goal was to reach 40% of the 587,195 persons at high risk for malnutrition. After
some revision based on the acceptability of nutritional messages and agro-ecological zones, the goal
was fixed at 20-30% and actual achievement rates were on the order of 15-45%.
15.   Concerning the development of a national nutritional education strategy, it should be noted
that, after implementation of the initial approach based on research, training and intervention in the
Far North, the limits of this approach became apparent. These limits had to do with: a considerable
reduction in the Government budget allocated to these services, a drop in salaries of Government
personnel, which caused a loss of morale, and the cumbersome nature of certain methodologies used
for quantitative surveys. The intervention strategy was therefore refashioned into a community
approach.
16.   FIMAC exceeded its goals in terms of the number of projects financed. Indeed, as of June
30, 1996, 2,300 projects were actually operational, and over 100 more were on the verge of being set
up. This surpassing of goals can be explained by two factors: the expansion of the mechanism to all
58 departements of the country and the creation of a streamlined but efficient implementation
structure for the program.
17.   The target number of groups to be created was far exceeded (5,365 recognized, of which
2,641 financed, as against an objective of 2,000 groups). The target number of production support
infrastructure projects was also far exceeded. This level of over-achievement may be attributable to
objectives that were set too low at the outset, or to an underestimation of the dynamism of target
populations and local managers which determined the setting of goals at that level.
18.   Although the implementation of the FIMAC did increase food production, the failure to
implement the village granaries>  component, and the low level of financing of processing
equipment, storage and preservation infrastructures and rural markets mean that serious food security
needs (in terms of accessibility and availability of food) still remain.
IV.   Main factors affecting the Project
19.   The following overall factors were detrimental to the Project:
* The existence of a single special account for three PSA components, and the financing needs
resulting from the expansion of those components, often caused cash flow problems;
* World Bank procedures were not thoroughly understood;
* The rapid turnover in project Task Managers, each with his own vision of the project, led to
some inconsistencies that hampered project implementation;
* There were delays in the obtention of non-objection agreements;



46
* The devaluation of the CFA franc was a serious blow to the project, especially as regards the
special account, which was replenished in local currency;
a  The slow pace of disbursements led to the payment of additional interest on undisbursed
funds.
20.   More specific difficulties at the level of each component include the following:
At the level of the FIMAC:
The weak development of community spirit in rnost provinces was detrimental to credit repayment.
In sorme provinces such as Sud-Ouest, there was great instability of provincial coordinators during the
first three years of project implementation.
Delays in replenishing provincial accounts seriously limited the number of micro-projects recognized
and alpproved for financing.
Certain provinces saw their credit suspended because of the low level of loan repayment.
The bankruptcy of savings and loan cooperatives that had been created in the context of economic
liberalization made farmers suspicious of this type of institution.
The devaluation of the CFAF led to an underestirnate of the cost of several investments.
At the level of the SNAR:
Managernent difficulties hampered normal activity under this component during its first three years
of operation. The SNAR lacked an accounting system.
At the level of the PPEN
Community spirit was slow to develop at first in some zones. The drastic reduction in civil servants'
salaries was a factor in a loss of morale on the part of outreach personnel. The drop in purchasing
power caused rural communities to sell all of their production without keeping reserves for family
consumption. An additional factor was the lack of motivation on the part of the Community Nutrition
Auxiliaries and group leaders.
At the level of market infrastructure:
Communities wishing to obtain credit encountered difficulties in financing feasibility studies for their
projects. Small communities cannot mobilize the cash (30%) demanded of them as a contribution to
the fiinancing of their projects.
Communities lack the financial management autonomy that would allow them to enter into a
commitment to using CFC funds.
Poor management of some infrastructures prevented them from generating financial returns; this in
turn caused huge delays in the reimbursement of funds loaned.
Conflicts among political figures prevented the operation of some infrastructures. In addition, there
were conflicts between mayors' offices and local elites concerning the location of infrastructures to be
built.
At the level of UTAVA:
UTAVA's Garoua location made it difficult to establish an ongoing relationship with the World Bank
and the Project's coordination staff.
Procurement procedures were not thoroughly understood prior to the program's start-up.
The Bank's hesitancy on numerous occasions to adopt UTAVA's action program was manifested in
the many consultant missions dispatched to determine UTAVA's needs.
There were administrative delays in the issuance of regulatory texts.



47
Actions to be carried out were not well identified.
V.    Project Sustainability
21.   The Government has committed itself to ensuring the sustainability of SNAR's achievements.
To this end, it has institutionalized project activities by integrating them into the organizational
scheme of the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, local managers now have the technical ability to
carry SNAR activities forward with confidence. From the technical standpoint, all methodologies
have been finalized. Data collection problems persist, but should soon be resolved by a budget
allocation from the Government. These funds may at some point be used to expand project activities.
22.   The Ministry of Agriculture will maintain a mechanism for monitoring the last credit
repayments which run until 2002, and this will also ensure monitoring of the proper use of the
reconstituted funds. A budget allocation of 200 million CFAF is included in the 1997/98 budget to
cover FIMAC's operations. However, these measures alone are not enough to put rural micro-finance
on solid footing. In the absence of long-term support, the Ministry of Agriculture will need to seek at
least 300 million CFAF in financing over two years for the continuation of two contracts, namely:
the CAMCCUL technical assistance contract and the IPD training contract for training of micro-
financing institutions not supported by CAMCCUL.
23.   The integration of FIMAC groups into COOPECs for the management of second generation
credits is part of the strategy for promoting Financial System Decentralization (FSD) in Cameroon.
The government feels that the development of FSD is a priority in it poverty alleviation efforts. Such
systems seem to better meet the needs of rural and low-income populations.
VI.   Evaluation of the institutional environment
24.   The Project overestimated the capacities of service providers (NGOs and other administrative
structures.). Most of these providers were more motivated by the lure of material gain than by a
desire to help achieve food security goals. This would explain to a large extent the low rate of
FIMAC credit recovery, as well as the SNAR's difficult relationship with the CRTV concerning
market data on the one hand, and with the meteorological services on the other with regard to harvest
forecasts.
25.   Some NGOs, however, once they are well implanted in the field and in contact with farmers,
are able to organize reliable groups that repay all their credits vis-a-vis FIMAC.
26.   The Coordination Unit achieved its overall goals from  an administrative standpoint,
especially as regards the monitoring of disbursements, procurement, and follow-up on donors'
recommendations. On the other hand, it did not fulfill its technical role. Indeed, it proved incapable
of designing a system for monitoring and evaluation of activities under the components, nor did it
generate any ideas for ensuring the sustainability of the program. It should also be noted that there
were latent conflicts among the components' coordinators, who accused the Coordination Unit of
interfering with their management. The Unit was dissolved by MINAGRI in April 1998.
27.   In addition, there was no management officer for the Food Security Project as a whole: this
function should have been located within the Coordination Unit. This lack was highly detrimental to
the monitoring of disbursements out of the Special Account for each component, and this hampered
the management of the Food Security Project.



48
28.   There was no collaboration among different project components. There were no global
performance indicators that would have made it possible to assess the extent to which the Project's
overall objective - improving food security of disadvantaged groups to alleviate poverty - had been
achieved.
World Bank Interventions
29.   By helping to identify and prepare the Project, the Bank manifested its willingness to support
the government's efforts to mitigate the harmful effects of the Structural Adjustment Program on low-
income rural and urban populations. Staff from Bank headquarters and the Resident Mission spared
no effort in advising the Cameroonian team charged with carrying out the preparatory studies.
30.   During Project appraisal and negotiations, the Bank failed to recognize the full extent of the
difficulty of setting up micro-credit programs in a rural environment plagued by poverty and food
insecurity. Credits belonging to the second category under the FIMAC component (the so-called
((commercial credits))) are a typical example cf this. These credits did not work because of the
interest rates imposed by the commercial banks responsible for managing them. The proposed
interest rates proved unsuited to field conditions.
31.    During the implementation phase, the project had 6 task managers in as many years. This
presented a problem of follow-up and continuity in Bank interventions. The Bank failed at the outset
to familiarize project managers with implementation procedures.
32.   Project start-up was delayed because of the failure the master these procedures. In addition,
project activities were held up by a non-objection mechanism that did not take into account budget
and activity programs previously approved by the Bank.
33.   The mid-term review, which should have made it possible to re-assess project goals and
results and ensure its sustainability, was a missed opportunity. It was only in 1997, i.e., a year before
the credit was to close, that the Bank became preoccupied with the project's sustainability, and
particularly with the merging of FIMAC groups into COOPECS and other IMFs (?) for purposes of
managing the reconstituted funds.
34.   However, it should be stressed that it was thanks to the Bank's interventions, through its
supervision missions, that considerable improvement in project performance was achieved, with the
introduction of more systematic auditing and the training of staff in disbursement procedures.
Government interventions
35.    The establishment of this program is proof that poverty alleviation is a priority for the
Government.
36.    Government. intervention was crucial in obtaining the amendment to the FSAR II loan
agreement intended to finance the pilot phase of the FIMAC, especially as regards the amount of the
loan and contributions by groups, as well as the simplification of procedures and the establishment of
provincial accounts. The Government provided the project with staff and physical assets.



49
37.   The structures put in place by the Government, whether provincial planning commissions for
small community projects or the provincial committee for crop monitoring, contributed to project
activities.
38.   Among the Government's failings, one should note that administrative procedures, especially
for procurement, are slow, and that this contributed to the slow pace of project disbursements. The
drop in civil servants' salaries that occurred in 1993 caused a loss of motivation on the part of
Government personnel. This situation caused governmental support structures to be less effective in
implementing field activities.
39.   Upon noting the slow pace of disbursements and the high cost of the IBRD loan, the
Government requested and obtained partial cancellation (US$10.6 million) of the loan. From the
financial point of view, this cancellation made it possible to lighten the debt burden in public finance
at a time when Cameroon was becoming eligible for IDA funds. From the standpoint of project
sustainability, however, instead of canceling the loan the Government should have requested a
revision of the financing plan. Such a revision would have made it possible to strengthen the most
active disbursement categories, such as the financing of small "category 1" projects. The revision of
the financing plan presupposes an in-depth assessment of the Project's future. Any arguments on this
subject would need to be put forth in such a way as to persuade the financing partner of the validity
of the proposals. This is precisely what the Government has failed to do.
40.   In conclusion, the Government was very passive during Project implementation. When it did
take initiatives (for example in preparing a project eligible for IDA funds), such initiatives were not
always supported.
VII.  Project Effects/Impacts
41.   The FIMAC program fostered the assumption of responsibility by groups in the initiating of
projects, the identification of needed equipment and the choice of suppliers from whom they wanted
to obtain the equipment. This was important to making groups feel that they "own" the project.
42.   Beneficiary groups were introciuced to the notion of savings and loan activities in connection
with their contribution to the financing of each project. The groups must first make an effort to
accumulate savings; then they must use the proceeds to back up a request for credit; and, finally they
must implement their project, which will generate income allowing them to improve their standard of
living and repay the loan.
43.   In order to make these accomplishments viable, however, there should have been an effort to
involve beneficiary groups in discussions of the strategy to be followed to cycle the credits through,
and to see the linkages between them, with a view to getting to know their own needs better and
reflecting together on problems that all groups have in common and that remain once credit has been
obtained. It may have been more advisable to stimulate the creation of a different form of group,
instead of doing the groups' thinking for them and hastily giving them responsibilities for which they
were ill-prepared. The chances of success for such a procedures are rather remote in the current
environment which favors self-promotion and participatory development.
44.    Some groups that were oriented only towards social service objectives (religious associations,
development committees, etc.) took advantage of the FIMAC credits to transform their members into
real agricultural producers. This was the case of the KAMAJOWO group in Sonayo (arrondissement



50
of Pitoa) which had a single producer of onions before obtaining the credit (for a motorized pump.)
With the credit, 9 other people began to cultivate this crop.
45.   All beneficiary groups that made rational use of the equipment obtained saw their members'
incomes increase substantially, provided that they did not have persistent marketing and storage
problems.
46.   The project, by allowing women to improve their feel for group culture and to familiarize
themselves with the notion of savings and loans, helped improve their social status. Women were
therefore extremely enthusiastic about the FIMAC program. The staff has a thorough understanding
of project appraisal and credit recovery in a rural environment, as well as of interpersonal
relationships in a difficult socio-political context.
47.   A manual of sample dossiers put together by FIMAC from a sampling of micro-projects and
infrastructure projects, and including complete feasibility studies accompanied by important
recommendations for implementation, was added to MINAGRI's store of documentation.
48.   The approach adopted for project implementation made it possible for allocated credits to
reach target populations, something that had not always occurred under other financing programs.
This manual can be used by any individual or entity wishing to embark upon agricultural
entrepreneurship or rural finance.
49.   Professional NGOs with their own operating resources, that have intervention goals in well-
defined geographic areas and that are based in those areas, were undeniably helpful in implementing
projects within their zones of intervention.
50.   Ten provincial planning commissions operated for 9 years and spent time discussing
investments in the agricultural sector. The work of these commissions was strengthened by the
decision to decentralize credit management to the provincial level. These provincial commissions
will be an indispensable tool in bringing about decentralization.
51.   FIMAC deserves praise for having financed underprivileged groups, allowing them to
undertake income-generating activities. In emulation of this initiative, some projects, such as
theDecentralized Rural Credit project, are establishing themselves by implanting village banks in
areas where the population has viable activities to generate rural savings. Several other private
nationwide initiatives of this type, or along the lines of the Grameen Bank, exist in pilot zones of high
production potential.
52.   Managerial autonomy obtained by mayors' offices (by presidential decree) reinforced their
credibility vis-a-vis financial partners and even in the eyes of the population. Mayors' offices are
now on the front lines of the ongoing decentralization effort.
53.   Most projects were begun with an emphasis on beneficiary participation and the assumption
of responsibility by a management committee, starting with the site identification phase. The public
transport depot at Bertoua, co-located with the market, has become a model of siting, organization
and profitability.
54.    The pilot experiment with financing markets through loans to districts (communes) allows
the CFC, based on the valorization of previous accomplishments, to continue the process using its
own funds, and relying on profitable operations.



51
55.    The project made it possible to:
- improve food and dietary habits and practices;
- improve the feeding and health of children and their parents;
- increase incomes, due to the reduction in childhood illnesses;
- reduce the amount of time that mothers spend with [sick] children, due to the increased
wholesomeness and variety of diets;
- develop the capacity for nutritional intervention on the part of health and nutrition staff.
Training modules have been developed for the four agro-ecological zones chosen. Pedagogical
material developed by the PPEN is widely used today by NGOs and religious organizations. The
community approach developed by the project is widely recognized and used by NGOs.
VIII. Main lessons to be learned
56.    An evaluation of the project's institutional aspects must be done during the preparation phase
by the institutions that are to be involved in implementation. Indeed, the success or failure of a
project depends to a large extent on the way in which institutional issues are assessed during the
preparation phase.
57.    Socio-economic analysis during the project preparation phase should be a prerequisite for
any project requiring the participation of the target group to ensure the sustainability of project
achievements.
58.    NGOs and other actors, when they are well implanted in the field, are an effective tool for
transferring innovations in the rural milieu.
Dietary habits vary from one agro-ecological zone to another, and within a single agro-ecological
zone.
These dietary practices are not immutable; they can be improved so long as one takes the
sociocultural context into account.
Nutritional knowledge can be improved.
A well conducted community approach can yield noticeable results.
The resolution of nutrition problems is a multisectoral matter.
Complementary local skills can yield appreciable results even in the absence of support from external
consultants.
There is still a substantial sociological aspect to rural finance, and the success of this activity requires
patience and an understanding of the milieu.
Decisions made at the central level for implementation by provincial units are not very useful to
farmers.
The participatory approach should still be preferred, since it takes Cameroon's diverse reality into
account and avoids the unproductive generalization of principles and methods.
The selection of groups in the rural milieu must be based on objective criteria in order to ensure
credit recovery.
Extensive (i.e., nomadic style) stockraising is difficult to monitor and credits granted under such
components are difficult to recover.
Rural women are the best customers for micro-finance, followed by old men and young married
couples.
Credits for food self-sufficiency (500,000 CFAF maximum) are easily reimbu of patience before the
model "takes" and begins to spread.



52
IX. RECOMMEFNDATIONS
59.   During the project preparation period, the "planning by objectives" method - in addition to
the development of performance indicators -- should be an absolute requirement, since this method
makes it possible to determine whether project objectives, results and activities are internally
consistent. Indeed, this approach also makes a project much more "readable" for those responsible
for implementation as well as for evaluation.
60.   In order to ensure the success of its second generation credits, FIMAC must: quantify, by
province, objectives and results to be achieved, and must earmark the required resources; allow
provincial coordinators to develop, under the supervision of provincial delegates, their activity
program and the associated budgets; increase managers' compensation by means of a percentage (to
be determined) of funds recovered through their efforts; put groups that have received credits in
contact with one another in order to stimulate repayments and put the process on solid footing.
61.   Development projects in general and health projects in particular, whether current or planned,
must: take the nutritional component into consideration in implementation; take advantage of the
tools developed; and follow the community approach model developed by PPEN.
X.    Operational Plan
62.   Disbursements for the SNAR component have been closed since December 1997. The
SNAR's activities are continuing on the Governnent budget thanks to an allocation that will be set
aside for SNAR on a regular basis under the MINAGRI's budget as of the 1998/99 fiscal year. Thus,
SNAR will continue its activities under the aegis of MINAGRI.
63.   Some of MINAGRI's tasks could be transferred, eventually to professional entities. Other
tasks, such as data collection on high-risk groups, could be expanded to the entire country with the
support of projects such as the Health, Fertility a.nd Nutrition Project, perhaps in collaboration with
the National Agricultural Extension project.
64.   The PPEN component achieved its goal of demonstrating an efficient method of nutritional
education in the four pilot zones assigned to it. The procedure may be extended to the entire country
with the help of the Bank-supported Health, Fertil:ity and Nutrition Project.
65.   Regarding the market infrastructure>> component implemented by CFC after it had tested the
market financing mechanism through loans to districts (communes), CFC has officially added this to
its roster of activities, as a supplemental financial product that enriches its portfolio of activities.
66.   Under the component dealing with crop predation by insects and birds, UTAVA acquired
some procurement experience. Although UTAVA is being considered for possible privatization, it
will continue, through MINAGRI, to pursue its public mandate of controlling bird and insect
predators in the western part of the country.
XI. CONCLUSION
67.   The project was designed and implemented in an atmosphere of economic crisis. This crisis
led the Government, with the help of donors including the World Bank, to establish a structural



53
adjustment program. The project made it possible to attenuate this program's harmful effects on the
rural sector.
68.    Although it is still too early to determine the extent to which the project's overall food
security goal has been reached, it is still evident, where specific objectives are concerned, that the
project has helped to create jobs in rural areas by financing income-generating activities. In addition,
there has been improvement in the dietary habits of such high risk groups as pregnant women and
children under the age of five.
69.    Project performance would have been better if, during preparation, particular attention had
been paid to socio-economic analysis of the target population, making it possible to take into account
regional peculiarities in the implementation of each component and, on the other hand, to evaluate
institutions responsible for implementing the projects (local administrations, NGOs, etc.).
70.   In any case, the PSA demonstrated that poverty is not inevitable: it is possible to mobilize
the rural population by means of a participatory and community approach to poverty alleviation.
71.   In the end, the project pointed up the fact that it is possible to mobilize rural savings through
the financing of income-generating micro-investments. Looking ahead, the next phase of the poverty
alleviation effort will be the consolidation of the Rural Development Fund (Fonds de D6veloppement
Rural) which has been ceded to the micro-financing institutions. The success of this phase will be
additional proof that it is possible to bring the formal and informal sectors together to mobilize rural
savings.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAM:EROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(LOAN 3388-CM)
7. APPENDIX C: MISCELLANEOUS
Premiere Categorie
Exercice    Pr6vu    Agree      Financ6
91/92              99        65        32
92/93             244       256       256
93/94             i30       879       422
94/95             493       907       645
95/96             605       954       850
96/97                      2224       332
97/98                       154       194
26 sem98
TOTAL            1771      5439      2731
Evolution des prets de Premiere Categorie
2500
2000
1500
1000
E
0
0
91192   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98
Exercice
* Pr6wv      gAgr66       r-0Financ~



55
Deuxieme categorie
Exercice      Pr6vu      Agree      Finance
91/92
92/93                               6           1
93/94                              43          25
94/95                              46          27
95/96                              45          43
96197                              50           8
97/98                             154           2
26 sem 98
TOTAL                             344         106
Evolution des prets de Troisieme Cat6gorie
180
160
140
120 12
2 80
E   60
0
z   40
20
91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98
Exercice
* RPvu *Agree  nFmanc=6



56
Constitution des groupes - situation des femmes
o1-5 membres cO6-10 membres Iz1 1-15 membres |1o6-20 membres
;  360   1     245       r       75              104
<> 1l 6-20
<>11-15 mernbres
<>1 1-15
membres   _                                 <> 1-5
membres
<>6-1 0
membres
Constitution des groupes - situation globale
<o'1-5membres |o~6-10Omembres  1C>11-15membres  '106-20membres
1610             ' 777             184                170
<>16-20
<>1 1-15   membres
membres
<>6-1 0<>-
membres
membJres           <>1m5



57
Adamaoua             18           4        68         92           1           2          24         34         243
Centre               41         29          2                     31           8          34           8        153
Est                 145           4         2          6          15           1          77          4         254
Ext. Nord             9          18       206                     17                      13          4         267
Nord                 12          15       238         66           6           2          34           9        382
Nord-Ouest          183          20          6       103          96           1         113          18         540
Sud-Ouest           113          12                               33           1          13           7         179
Sud-Ouest           145           5                    5          23          21                       5        204
Ouest               122          73                               68          11          94           2        370
Littoral             99           9                               61          11          60           5        245
FIMAC Micro-projects
1000 1          i      |     ili        11       
900
800
700
0    500
z
300
200
100
0
Culture      Culture       Culture      Elevage   Petit Elevage  Pisciculture    Moulin-   Infrastructure
Vivriere    Maraichere     Attelee       Bovin                                    Presse
Project type



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(LOAN 3388-CM)
8. APPENDIX D: MAPS



MALI                                              20'                           1 2                                                                                     1 6
".d-d
NIGER                                               lb M,     J,l d
-b-d-
CHAD          SUDAN
G;
b INi
N
NIGERiA
0      40      80      120      160 Kil-,,                                                     12-
7-7-7
_.s                CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.                 11   1.0   40    60    80    1 00 mil.                                         C  H  A  D
*Y .... d.
'EQATCAAL                                                                                                                             m
GLqNtA            --------- 4
M.    NORD
AN P  CWE                                       DEM. REP.
_0,      RN                         I CONGO             OF
GABON                      CONGO
t
20'
"Is,
lo
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
-     INFRASTRUCTUPE PROJECTS
FINANCED PROJECTS
Sl
0     SELECTED TOWNS
DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
e     PROVINCE CAPITALS                                    f                       P.1i
NATIONAL CAPITAL
PAVED ROADS
UNPAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                   8-
RAILROADS
RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                              Ti
7_
NIGERIA                                                             B
T
j
6-                             b-                                                                                                                                                 6-
4
N90i'                                                                                                              Y.
U,  T                                                                                                    CENTRAL
AFRICAN
C(NTRE
u S T',-.
REPUBLIC
K
Eb.
LITTORAL
Al,,gMbon,,
ounde
ES
L
SUD
-EQUATORIAL
GUINEA.-
I ... J.u     1      2
GABON
12'                                         1            C 0  N G 0
"ro  1,         -111,         I             I                                            14'



