Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReponN N.. 9048 -CM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
MAY 1, 1991
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Centrel African Department
I hi decwment kas a retrcted dItdbton and may be uwd by ripients only in the perfonnance of
their o&icI duties Its conkets my nt otherwise be dcosed io  World Bank athorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   CFAF Franc (CFAF)
UStI = CFAF 260 */
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCU                    -       Aerial Pout Control Unit
CAA                     -       Calss. Autonoms d'Amortissoment
CARE                    -       Cooperative for American Relief Everywhero, Inc.
CCCE                    -       Caisse Central- do Coopiration Economique (Franc.)
CDC                     -       Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA                    -       Canadian International Development Agency
CFC                     -       Cr4dit Foncier du Cameroun
DEAPA                   -       Direction des Enqu&tes Agro-economiques et d. Ia
Planification Agricole
DPA                     -       Direction des Projets Agric)los
EEC/EDF                 -       European Economic Community/European Dev-lopment Fund
FAO                     -       Food and Agriculture Organization of the U.N.
FIMAC                   -       Financement d'Investissements pour des Micro-R6alisations
Agricoles   et Communautaires
IFAD                    -       International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF                     -       International Monetary Fund
MESIRES                 -       Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
MINAGRI                 -       Ministry of Agriculture
MINASCOF                -       Ministry of Social Affairs and Feminine Condition
MINDIC                  -       Ministry of Industrial Development and Commerce
MINAT                   -       Ministry of Territorial Administration
MINEPIA                 -       Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal Industries
MINFI                   -       Ministry of Finance
MINSANTE                -       Ministry of Health
NGO                     -       Non-Governmental Organization
OC                      -       Office C6r6alier
ONCP3                   -       Office National de Commercialisation des Produits do Base
PDA                     -       Provincial Delegate for Jgriculture
Qrs                     -       Quantitative Restrictions
SAL                     -       Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP                     -       Structural Adjustment Program
SDA                     -       Social Dimensions of Adjustment
WFP                     -       World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
s/  Exchange rate at end-Dc-mber, 1990.  The exchange rate of the CFA Franc is fixed at 60:1 to
the French Franc, which is a floating currency.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ..................................... i
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY SECTORS .................... ii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................................. iii
I.        INTRODUCTION     ...........   . ....................... 1
Background         ...................................            1
The Economy.       .     .    ...............................................    1
The Structural Adjustment Program                  ...  2
Medium-Term Growth Prospects         ........              ..  2
Agricultural Performance                    . . .   3
Agricultural Prospects and Constraints                . . .  4
Government Policy and Strategy                 ...  5
II.       FOOD SECURITY POSITION AND STRATEGY .......................... 6
Food Security Position       ........ . .  6
Availability of Food          ...... .................................... 7
Regulations and Policies Influencing Food Availability ..... 9
Food Accessibility ........................................... 10
Food Utilization/Nutrition       .    .................................. 11
Food Security Strategy: Past and On-Going Actions ............ 12
Public Investments ........................................... 12
Policy Measures .     ...............*...... 13
Supply Sidc Measures .......                 .     .............. 13
Demand Side keasures             .       .................. 14
Administrative Organization and Institutions          ...  16
Bank Invclvement in the Agricultural Sector    ...8....... l
III.   THE PROJECT                        .       ............ 18
Project Rationale and Objectives               .     .      . . 18
Project Description .    ......................................... 19
Detailed Features ............................................ 20
Support to Rural Community Micro-Projects   .......        ...... 20
Locust Control Program ....................................... 22
Early Warning and Market Information System ...... 23
Market Infrastructure        . .      ............               23
Nutrition Education .                                            23
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD appraisal mission in
November 1989 led by Ms. M. Nguyen, consisting of Mr. D. Mitchnik, Ms.
Saadat, Ms. Eastwood (consultant), Messrs. Thomson (adviser), D'Arbre
(consultant), Dinnechin (consultant). The appraisal was completed in June,
1990 by Ms. Y. Saadat (Mission Leader), L. Wardle, Messrs. K. Apara and D.
Mitchnik. The project advisor has bten Mr. P. Thomson of the Food Security
Unit. Messrs. M.J. Gillette and K. Cleaver are Country Programs Director
and Sector Division Chief, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienits only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



tUble of Contents (gontlnuea4
Paae
IV.         PROJECT COSTS AND FISANCINC  ...............                 ...... 24
Cost Zstim&teS....................... 24
Financing ..........................2S
Onlending Procedures .,................................... 25
Procurement .........................26
Disbursements         ......      ........................... 28
Reporting ..........................29
Accounts and Audits. .. . . .................................30
Post-Project Incremental Recurrent Costs ............30
V.         ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................................. 31
PD&C Program ........................31
Locust Control...............*  .... 32
Information Systems .        ................................ 32
Market Construction..................................               32
Nutrition ..........................32
VI.        BENEFITS AND RISKS ................. . ....... .............. .   . .33
Benefits ......................                             ....33
Economic Benefits ...        .. .................. ..... 33
Project  Risks     ......................... . . ... .34
Environmental Impact ...............................         .   34
VII.       AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .3. . ........ ..               ..... 35
ANNEXES
1.    Food Security Strategy
2.    Rural Community Micro-Projects
2.1. Village Storage
3.    Locust Control Program
4.    Early Warning and Market Information System
S.    Market Infrastructure
6.    Nutrition Education
7.    Detailed Cost Tables
8.    Procurement Schedule
9.    Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
10.1 Otganizational Chart
10.2 Implementation Schedule
10.3 Bank Supervision input into Key Activities
11.   Economic Analysis of Micro-Projects, Village Storage, and Market
Infrastructure Components
Maps IBRD No. 22073 Food becurity Project



- i -
CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.    Etude Pr4liminaire & la mise en place d'un Fonds d'investissements pour
des Micro-R6alisations Agricoles et Communautaires (FIMAC), Mai 1989.
Minist4t:* de l'Agriculture, Direction des Etudes et Projets.
2.    Les Populations A Haut Risque Alimentaire, Octobre 1989.  Etude faite
par CEGOS-IDET, Fonds Europ4en de D6veloppement.
3.    L'Amdlioration do la Commurcialisation des Produits Vivriers, Dicembre
1989, Sema Group Management Consultants - Fonds Europ6en de
D6velo?pement - Tome 1: Le Stockage; Tome 2: La Transformation; Tome 3;
Les Transports.
4.    Etude de Faisabilite des Actions Visant I l'Amelioration de la
Comtmercialisation des Produits Vivriers au Cameroun - Besoins en
Infrastructures de MarchEs - Volet III/CEGOS Etudes Conjointes SEMK-
CEGOS.
5.    Etude de la Commercialisation des Produits Vivriers, Juillet 1986 -
5.F.S. - MIDAS. Fonds Europeen de Developpement.
6.   An Assessment of Nutritional Factors Affecting Children Under 5,
Pregnant and Lactating Women, Peggy Thorpe, CARE, Canada. May 1990.
7.    Etude de Faisabilite d'un Projet Pilote de Stockage et de Transformation
des Produits Vivriers dans la Province de l'ExtrOme-Nord, Greniers
Villageois de Mise en Marche. Mars 1990, Minist&re de l'Agriculture,
DPA.
8.    Etude en vue de l'Amelioration des Performances de l'UTAVA, Septembre
1990, Ministare de l'Agriculture. DPA.
9.    Report on the Survey of Pesticide Stocks in Cameroon, Overseas
Development Administration, February 1990.
10.   Etablissement d'un Systbme National d'Information pour la Securite
Alimentaire et d'Alerte Rapide, Programme de Cooperation FAO-
Gouvernement, Novembre 1989.
B.    WORKING PAPERS
1.    Food Security, John Gray, Food Studies Grou2, Oxford. U.K., February
1988.
2.    Credit Foncier du Cameroun, Situation Financi&re au 30 juin 1989.
3.    Credit Foncier du Cameroun, Rapport d'Activite, Exercice 1988/89.
4.    Detailed Cost Tables.
5.    Protucole de Mise & Disposition d'un Equipment A un Groups.
6.    Note sur la Mise en Place de Financements du FIMAC (undated).



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
KEY FEATU ES OF THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
1. Popula ion (1983 estimates)
Total a/                                                             11.2 mIillon
Rural as X of Total a/                                               d1
Rural Families                                                         1.63 million
2.   conomlc Ovorviow
KP/1H.ad of Total Population (US2 1989) k/                          1016
Agricultur  CNP as X of Totnl 1989 C/                                 27
Agricultural GNP/H*ad of Rural ripu atlon (USS)S/                    434
S. Land Use #/
Lond Area (km2)                                                    476,U
Area Porennial Crops (he)                                          ?$$,on
Areo  Annual Crops (h)                                           1,281,09
4.  Developent of Production (198/6* production
evolv e     or 0 wt   e  !ro*uct ons st   i1r    N a ar /
Cocoa                                                                    96
Robusta Coffee                                                          152
Arabica Coffee                                                          61
Maize                                                                  261
Millot and Sorghum (baseo year 1980/81)                                1i
Rice
Croundnuto                                                              256
Yams                                                                    133
Cassava                                                                  22
Plantains                                                               116
Potatoos (baso  year 1982/83)                                           132
Sweet Banana                                                            66
S. Principal Inputs
Fertilizor (metric tons) J                                         156,466
6. Trado (1988)
Tota7 exports (CFAF billion 1989/90)(X)                          6S1 (1tO)
of which Agriculture                                            216    (3
Cocoa                                                            66      11
coffo                                                            62 (52
Timber                                                                    6j
Cotton                                                           24
Othor Agricuature                                                49
Total Imports (CFAF billion (X) 1987/08)                        469   (101)
of which Food, Bevorgooe, Tobacco h
Agricultural Equipmnt                                           92    (20)
7. Governmont Expenditures (1990-91) f/
Total Investment Budget (CFAF billion)                         203.4
Amount of Invostomnts In Agriculturo (CFAF billion)             29.6
Percontago of Investments in Agriculture (X)                    14.6
i7WX~'~r Prropration Report
i/Sonk Atlao
c/Estimated
M/ Ministry of Agriculture
*/ National Accounts, Ministry of Plan
/ Public Investment Program, Ministry of Plan
AFIlA
Soptember 1996



- iii -
C.JMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrawers         Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI)
Aerial Pest Control Unit (APCU)
Credit Foncier du Cameroun (CFC)
Ministry of Health (MINSANTE)
Loan Amounts      US$23.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard IBRD terms, with 20 years maturity, including
a five-year grace period.
Onlendin 
Terms:            Aerial Pest Control Unit (APCU).  For the aerial locust
control program in the North and Extreme North Provinces, an
amount of US$2.2 million equ.valent would be passed on to
APCU by the Government in the form of a grant to replace
obsolete equipment and provide training.
Credit Foncier du Cameroun (CFC). For the market
infrastructure component, part of the proceeds (US$4.1
million equivalent) would be on-lent from Government to CFC
at an interest rate equal to the current Bank rate, plus
1.252 to cover for the foreign exchange risk assumed by the
Government with 20 years maturity, including a five-year
grace period, and from CFC to municipalities, at an interest
rate of at least 13Z, providing CFC with an adequ*a margin
for its intermediation role. Loans to municipalities would
be repayable over a maximum of 10 years, including a two-
year grace period. An amount of US$0.5 million equiva'ent
would be passed on to CFC in the form of a grant for
consultant services.
Micro-Proiecti Financina Scheme (FIMC). For the micro-
projects component, part of the proceeds (US$8.5 million
equivalent) would be on-lent from Government to beneficiary
groups for (i) commercial investments, at an interest rate
of not less than 15?, with a maximum repayment period of 4
years, and (ii) social-type and infrastructure investmenrs,
at no interest, with a maximum repayment period of 4 and 10
years respectively.
Proiect:          The project will create employment opportunities and raise
the purchasing power of rural groups, particularly women,
improve feeding and dietary practices through a pilot
nutrition education program for high risk groups (children
under five and pregnant and lactating women), increase
efficiency in marketing and storage of foodstuffs, and



-iv-
reduce the impact of pest attacka on food production th'ough
the strengthening of APCU Crop Protection Service.
Investments proposed under the food security project are
designed to implement part of the Government's food security
strateg,. Other ongoing projects and projects under
preparation vt;:h include improved services and
infrastructuro to the poor in rural areas shall complete the
strategy. The proposed project includes the following
investment components which shall be implemented throughout
the country, except as otherwise indicatedt
za) in all provinces financing of micro-projects to supports (i)
co o rcial cash-generating group investments; (ii) non-
commercial social-type investments by community groups which
are non-cash generating (e.g) food processing and
transformation equipwent: and infrastructure investments
such as on-farm and village storage, watering points for
livestock, fish ponds, rural tLacks. Commercial investments
shall be subject to commercial interest rates of at least
152 p.a. while non-commercial social-type investments shall
be subject to cost recovery; a pilot village food storage
program in the Extreme North Province; and institutional
support to MINAGRI to assist in project implementation;
(b)   locust control in the North and Extreme North Provinces;
(c) early warning for drought and other causes of food
shortfalls, and a market information system over a three-
year period;
(d)   construction and renovation of market infrastructure in
rural and urban communes;
(e) over a three-year period, formulation of a national
nutrition education strategy based on the development and
implementation of a pilot nutrition education program for
high risk children and women in one department of the
Extreme Northern, Eastern, and Western Provinces, and the
urban slums of Douala City.



etOi* a@ rroaccu .orus
PROJECT COST SUMMARY 1/
Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total    Exchange X Total
-US3 Millions-----            X      Beno Costs
Micro-Projoets                 11.1      7.3    10.4        89.5        57.3
Locust Control Program          1.1      3.9      S.0       77.3        16.6
Informtion System               O.6      0.7      1.3       53.7         4.1
Market Infrastructure           3.S      2.4      6.0       40.6        18.6
Nutrition                       9.6      O.6      1.4       66.2         4.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS               17.0   1         8 32.1     46.9       16U.0
Phy*ical Contingencios          0.5      0.7      1.3       67.9         4.0
Pric Contingene;i               1.2      1.2      2.4       50.9         7.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            10.7    17.0    35.7         47.6       111.4
(Including Taxes)
Taxes                          (0.4)   (0.0    (9.4)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            10.3    17.0    $5.3
(Net of Toxee)
Financina Plan
Local          Foreign        Total
_-_-_--      (USS million) ----
Government                                         1.8              -            1.8
Beneficiaries                                      3.6              -           3.6
APCU                                               1.4              -            1.4
Municipalities                                     1.7              -            1.7
IBRD                                               8.9            14.1         23.0
Japan                                              0.9             2.9          3.8
World Food Program 1J                               -               -             -
Total                                             18.3            17.0         35.3
1/ WFP would contribute food for trainers, food for work and grain as working capital for village
storag. construction under component (a) of project.
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
92      93       94      95   96        97     98    99
----------------- (US$ million)-------------------
Annual                           1.15  2.99    4.37  5.06  3.22    2.07  2.99  1.15
Cumulative                       1.15  4.14    8.51 13.57 16.79  18.86 21.85 23.00



- vi -
Benef its
The project will improve food distribution and thus reduco the cost of food
to consumers, increase producers' Jncome by averting loss from locust
attacks, provide incentives for increasing production and consumption of
domestically produced food. The project will also create employment
opportunities for rural groups, especially women'R groups, and increase
income of the poor. By supporting marketing, processing and transformation
activities, the project will help reduce the time devoted by women to these
tasks, enabling them to dedicate more time to family nutrition and child
care. Finally, the project will encourage self-help initiatives,
responding to community needs. The demand-driven character of group-
investments is expected to be a major factor in ensuring project success.
Risks
The main risk foreseen is the complexity in project implementation and
supervision due to the multisectoral approach of the project. Concentrating
the implementation of most of the compcnents within a single Ministry,
MINAGRI. and involving qualified NGOs at the field level will facilitate
the project's implementation and supervision. The ability of farmers to
respect management guidelines and repayment of funds is another potential
risk. Training of group leaders, having repayments made in revolving funds
at the local level managed by groups and their sponsors, use of group
pressure, are administrative incentives designed to reduce the risk of
associating farmers in the implementation of the micro-projects scheme. A
third risk is related to the capacity of the financial intermediary to
manage the line of credit, the municipalities and rural councils to
appraise and manage market construction projects and repay loans contracted
for such purposes. The implication of a viable financial intermediary,
Cr4dit Foncier du Cameroun (CFC), in the management of the credit line to
municipalities, and the provision of training for CFC and councils' staff
will reduce the risk attached to this component.
Economic Rate of Return Productive components: 15Z 1/
Maps IBRD No. 22073 Food Security Project
p
I/The ERR represents the minimum yield for eligible micro-investments
under the FIMAC component, and market construction projects to be
financed by the line of credit. The economic analysis of micro-
investment models shows that the minimum eligibility criteria of 15? can
be easily attained. Market projects have a firancial rate of return of
182, based on the average cost of a market module and current market
user fees.



CAMROO
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUJCTION
Background
1.1      Cameroon is a country of about 475,000 km2 with a population of about
11.2 million. Extending from the Atlantic Ocean north to Lake Chad and to
the Southern tropical forest latitudes, Cameroon is one of Africa's most
diversified countries, with varying climatic zones, altitudes, topography,
hydrology, vegetation and soils. Population density is uneven with areas of
high density alternating with vast tracts of empty land.  The pressure of
Cameroon's high population growth, presently at 3.1 per annum, is a factor
both in rural land use and in the migration of youth to the cities.
Agriculture, livestock, and forestry production are major potential sources
of growth, given the favorable population/land ratio (20 per hectare), below-
potential yields,  and under-exploited natural  resources.   The mineral
resource base is diversified with reserves of oil, bauxite, iron ore and
natural gas.
The Economy
1.2      After a period of robust growth from 1980 to 1985, the Cameroonian
economy is in the midst of an economic crisis due to sharp deterioration in
its terms of trade and falling oil production, exacerbated by economic
mismanagement. Government intervention has been pervasive. Until recently,
prices of both domestic and export crops were fixed and controlled, as were
intermediary marketing costs and profit margins. Various regulations were
imposed on internal and external trade. The proliferation of parastatals for
a wide range of activities, particularly in the agricultural sector, further
attests to the extent of public sector intervention.
1.3      Between 1985 and 1988 per capita income fell by 22 percent.  The
emergence of domestic arrears and the decline in foreign assets created a
liquidity crisis in the banking sector which exposed past imprudent lending
practices, especially to public enterprises, inadequate supervision of
financial institutions,  and a rigid interest rate structure.   External
competitiveness was eroded by a domestic inflation rate higher than that of
Cameroon's trading partners, and by the appreciation of the CFAF against the
U.S. dollar. Together, these factors led to a 27 percent appreciation in the
real effective exchange rate between 1985 and 1988.
1 4      Government reacted by cutting expenditures on investment and material
purchases, thereby contributing to the ongoing slowdown of economic activity.
In September 1988, the Government signed a Stand-by arrangement with the IMF
to continue with the stabilization measures. The Government also prepared a
far reaching ad4ustment program to complement the stabilization effort. In



2
June 1989. the Aank's Executive Directors approved a US$150 million
equivalent Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) for Cameroon to be disbursed in
three equal tranches over an l8-month period.
The Structural Adiustment Program
1.5      The SAL supports the first phase of a comprehensive multi-year
adjustment program aimed at restoring internal and external balances,
reducing the domestic cost structure, and removing structural constraints to
growth.   A key result of the program would be an estimated 15 percent
depreciation in the real effective exchange rate by 1995, which would help
restore Cameroon's competitiveness vis-&-vis its trade partners to the level
ex3sting in 1977 (before oil revenues became important), when the current
account and fiscal situation were in equilibrium.
1.6      Decisions have been taken to liquidate 15 State-owned enterprises,
privatize 12 and restructure about 30.   The Government has cgreed to
liquidate three state-owned banks and one mixed-ownership bank and
established an institution to recover their bad loans. Performance contracts
have been drawn up for the restructuring of agricultural parastatals,
providing evidence of Government's announced withdrawal from productive and
coamercial activities. The Government has decided to liquidate or to divest
a number of agricultural parastatals including those concerned with wheat
production, the financial institution for agricultural credit, two rice
producing enterprises, and the food supply and seed producing enterprise.
Revenue producing parastatals such as SEMRY (rice), SOCAPAL4 (palm oil), CDC
(rubber, palm oil, tea), HEVECAM (rubber), and CENEEMA (agricultural
equipment), which have been retained in the public portfolio, are being
restructured  .o become self-financing.   Development parastatals such as
SODECAO (cocoa), SODECOTON (cotton) and MIDENO (Rural Development in
Northwest Province) are being restructured to increase efficiency and reduce
costs. The Government's marketing monopoly for some food and export crops is
being dismantled through the restructuring of SEHRY (rice) and ONCPB (export
crop marketing board). Controls of domestic prices and trading margins were
drastically curtailed 'n June 1989 and now cover only a handful of basic
consumer goods. Although much progress has been made towards the realization
of public enterprise reform, including that of the banking sector,
substantial shortfalls in go-'ernment revenue and poor internal coordination
among ministries have deiayed its implementation, and after significant
delays the second Tranche of the SAL got released.   Similarly, the IMF
program lapsed because of revenue shortfalls. However, negotiations for a
second F,und program are about to begin.
Medium-Term Prosoects for Growth
1.7      Medium-term prospects remain weak due to the slow response expected
from reliance on internal adjustment measures (i.e. without any complementary
change in the nominal exchange rate). GDP growth is projected at less than
2 percent per annum until 1995 and below 3 percent per annum thereafter.
Growth in non-oil GDP is projected to be one percentage point higher in both
periods, the difference reflecting the decline in the petrol.um sector. The
agriculture sector, which remains the backbone of the economy accounting for



3
60 percent of the country's employment and 30 percent of its export receipts,
is expected to grow between 3 and 4 percent per annum. These projections
assume a positive growth in per capita food production, reversing the recent
declining trend. The food sub-sector's performance is critical to that of
the entire sector as it accounts for more than 50 percent of total
agricultural production and offers interesting export prospects to
neighboring markets in Gabon and Nigeria.
Agricultural Performance
1.8      Agriculture'. performance has been modest relative to its resource
base. During the 1960s, agriculture grew at a rate of about 5.21 p.a, mach
higher than the national growth of about 1.42. Its growth rate fell to 3.41
p.a. between 1970 to 1975, regained its somentum betveen 1975 and 1982, with
a rate of 72 p.a., mainly due to expansion of export crops.  After 1982,
while the economy grew at 5.61 p.a., agriculture was almost stagnating (1.9?
pa. 1982188), mostly because of slow growth of export crop production and
unfavorable prices.   While food crop production data varies widely,  it
appears that until recent years, the subsector largely kept pace with
population growth. Per capita food production peaked in mid-1970 and has
since declined.  Area expansion largely accounted for the growth in food
crops, although recently area-based growth has been constrained in the main
food producing centers of the country due to land scarcity. Foodcrop yields
have virtually stagnated, or even declined, due to inadequate research and,
until recently, extension services to the majority of food growers,
exacerbated by limited availability of credit, input supply and market
outlets. The exception has been in rice production, where parastatals have
been lavishly financed to develop irrigated rice. The livestock subsector has
suffered from a high cattle mortality rate, resulting in substantial imports
of meat of about 40,000 tons a year.
1.9      The performance of exoort crops has been mixed over the past 25
years. Its very good performance in the early 80s (1981/85-262 growth p.a.
in current terms) was followed by an average decline of 61 p.a. between 1985
and 1988. Production of conoa and arabica coffee has declined at a rate of
2 to 3 percent per year.   Low relative prices, which have discouraged
investments and caused an aging of plantations, plus an agLig workforce have
been at the root of this decline.    Other export crops. c"tton, robusta
coffee, palm oil, and rubber have had a better growth record. Relatively
attractive producer prices for robust, coffee and cotton have encouraged the
renewal of coffee plantations and the expansion of both area and yield of
cotton., Rubber and palm oil production have increased significantly with
government investment in large estates.  Smallholder plantations of these
crops have not yielded good results. Forestry exports have expanded, mostly
in the form of logs.   Forest resources remain substantial,  but their
exploitation has not been rationalized, resulting in depletion of a few
popular species, and the risk of the ultimate loss of the entire forest
resources if a ratLonal exploitation regim is not adopted.



4
Agricultural Prospects and Constraints
1.10    With its diversified resource base and high agricultural potential,
Cameroon's agriculture has the capacity to feed its fast growing population,
provide higher income levels in rural areas, attract more investment, and
earn substantial foreign exchange for the economy.
1.11     Traditional and New ExDorts.   Cameroon is physically well endowed
to produce most traditional export crops. However, at current world prices,
financial losses on cocoa, coffee, and cotton exports resulted in a net drain
of CFAF SO billion in 1988/89 for the Government.   Policies of fixing
producer prices, independent of world prices, and establishing price
schedules for every intermediate step of the marketing process for cocoa and
coffee have proven to be very inflexible and costly. The system effectively
imposed heavy taxation on farmers when world prices were higher, while the
deficit accumulated in recent years as world prices dropped could not be
sustained and farmers' incomes were not protected.  Under the Structural
Adjustment Program and the Bank-supported Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, the
Government has taken steps to restore the financial equilibrium in the cocoa,
coffee, and cotton sub-sectors, including reductions of intermediary costs
and producer prices for 1989/90. Increased productivity is being promoted
through an effective plant protection program, the use of high yielding
varieties to replace old trees and other yield improving cultivation methods.
1.12    Market prospects for Cameroon's non-traditional exports, such as of f-
season vegetables, tropical fruit, and processed products, appear promising.
Cameroon has preferential access to the European Economic Community (EEC)
market under the Lome Convention, which has not been exploited fully.
Moreover, trade logistics such as freight capacities are favorable relative
to other competing countries. Cameroon should pursue an aggressive strat...gy
to diversify  into new products.   The private  sector  rather than tne
Government has the dynamism to develop new products. However, the private
sector will respond only in a favorable macro-economic environment.
Considerable progress has been made in liberalizing trade, removing price
controls, and revising the investment code.
1.13     Food Subsector.   Prospects for increasing food production are
favorable given Cameroon's wide range of agro-climatic resources, presently
low yields compared to potential, growing urban population, and relatively
free marketing system.   However,  inadequate marketing outlets and post-
harvest facilities for storage, preservation, processing, and transportation
discourage susteined expansion in food products.   These constraints are
likely to be felt more keenly following the recent reduction in official
producer prices for traditional export crops, which would, ceteris garibus,
encourage substitution by food crops.1   Livestock is a major source of
income for 302 of the rural population and offers immediate growth
1This is already the case in the North West Province where male farmers are
shifting out of coffee into potato production as a means of securing cash income.
This has depressed market prices for potato because of increased supply, with a
negative impact on women's income.



5
opportunities. The internal and external markets eAist given annual imports
of 40,000 tons and neighboring Nigeria as a potential export market. High
mortality is a major cause of production losses. Input supply of medicines.
credit and adequate extension in production and marketing are the main
constraints to further expansion.
Government Policy and Strategy
1.14     The Government's objectives for the sector emphasize food security,
promotion of exports and crops used by local industry, and an increase in
rural employment and income.   The Government has initiated a number of
important actions to create a policy environment conducive to meeting its
objectives,  reducing public sector intervention in many spheres.   This
strategy is to be achieved through: (a) intensification of agriculture; (b)
rationalization of public expenditures in ths sector to cut costs and
increase efficiency of public investments; (c) rational development of the
country's rich natural resources, particularly in the forestry sub-sector;
and (d) greater reliance on the private sector for agricultural development.
1.15     Review of an Agriculture Sector Report (Report no. 7486-CAM, March
1989) by the Government and the Bank served to orient the Bank's involvement
in the sector for the next three years. An agreement was reached to shift
emphasis from traditional investments in large estates and parastatals,
government owned industrial plantations, and regional rural development
projects towards sectoral operations which would emphasize policy reforms;
institution building; private sector investments and improved national
agricultural services in research, extension, cooperative credit, forestry
and animal health.
1.16     Harmonization  of extension  services,  stronger linkages between
extension and research, and intensification of agricultural production is
being developed under the Bank financed National Agricultural Research
Proiect (FY88), and a National Agricultural Extension and Training Project
(FY90). Reforms and institutional support to enhance a liberal marketing
environment in the food sector, and increase the participation of the private
sector and the poor in the development process are addressed under the
proposed Food Security Project  (FY91).   Veterinary services are being
privatized, and institutional issues of the sub-sector being addressed under
the Bank financed Livestock Sector Development Proiect (FY89). The Forestry
Code and the forestry tax regime are to be modified, as a condition of
release of the third tranche of the SAL, to provide a legal basis for a
rational exploitation of resources, for promoting agro-forestry and involving
local populations in the protecticn of national parks and reserves.   These
reforms are to take place in the context of a rationalized exploitation and
conservation regime to be developed under the Forestry and Environment
Proiect (FY92), under preparation. The Bank is in the process of assisting
the Government prepare an Export Promotion and Diversification Proiect
(FY92), to create a favorable institutional and policy environment for
private investments, and to diversify markets for both traditional and non-
traditional agricultural and agro-industrial exports.



6
1. FOOD SECURITY POSITION AND STRATEGY
Food Security Position
2.1      Food security  in Cameroon  is defined as access  to sufficient
quantities of food to ensure a healthy and active life for the entire
population. Essential elements of the food security strategy ares
(a) the availability of adequate food resources; and
(b) the ability of the population in all areas of the country and in a'I
circumstances to acquire sufficient quantities of food to mseet
nutrition needs, and to take full advantage of available food
resources.
While Cameroon's food security position is favorable relative to many other
Sub-Saharan African countries, with a high ratio of food self-sufficiency of
about 96? 2, chronic and transitory food insecurity exists in certain areas
due to such factors ass Mi) shortfalls in production as a result of
unfavorable climatic conditions and/or untimely and insufficient pest and
locust control, especially in the northern part of the country; (Li) low
purchasing power limiting access to food, and health and sanitary facilities;
and (iii) inappropriate infant and child feeding and maternal dietary
practices due to inadequate knowledge and insufficient time, on the part of
women, to devote to child care responsibilities.
2.2      Food imports have risen steadily (average annual rate of growth of
food imports in current terms of llS between 1979/80 and 1988/89). due to
increased domestic demand, partly caused by the low value of the dollar vis-
I-vis the CFA franc. In addition, rapid economic growth which accompanied
the expansion of petroleum production since the late 1970s contributed to
increased relative urban incomes, in turn stimulating the rate of
urbanization to about 5 to 6 percent per annum and creating a similarly rapid
increase of demand for food in urban areas.  The rural sector has become
increasingly ill-equipped to meet this demand due to inappropriate trade
regulations, an aging rural population, lack of access to credit, inadequate
transportation/distribution system, a traditional production/marketing
system, and stagnant technology.  The sector is still very largely self-
sufficient in most parts of the country, with the greater part of all crops
retained on farm for self-consumption.
I
2This rate is less than 100? because of total dependency on imports for
wheat and frozen fish, and large amounts of rice imports, although it would have
been about 1052, despite imports, if post-harvest losses had been fewer (132 in
1986).



7
Availability of Food
2.3      CroD Yields    Major crop yields are low,  remaining well below
research  potential.3      Increased  production,   coupled  with  improved
productivity of marketing is the challenge to meet the country's growing
demand. Due to recurrent droughts every four years high variability exists
in the production of the northern provinces, which accounts for about 35
percent of the country's area and 27 percent of the population. In addition,
about 1.2 million ha are subject to locust attack which has now become
endemic in the north, affecting 3 million rural people. The West is better
endowed with a long rainy season, although area expansion is restricted by
limited availability of cultivable land. The East and the South are mainly
forest areas, with poor infrastructure and limited market accessibility.
Improving yields through better research and extension, provision for crop
protection (paras. 2.4-2.6) construction of marketing and village storage
infrastructure (paras. 2.7-2.9) would lead to increased production and food
availability.
2.4      Locust Control. According to Government reports, insect attacks on
crops have reached endemic proportions in the North and Extreme Northern
Provinces of Cameroon, where food security is marginal due to unfavorable
climatic conditions.   Traditionally, Cameroon has depended on emergency
assistance  from the international community when locust attacks occur.
International assistance, mostly in aerial spraying and provision of limited
amounts of pesticides, vehicles and equipment, has been sporadic and
untimely. In view of the recurrent nature of pest attacks in the North and
Extreme Northern Provinces, there is a need to institutionalize anti-pest
activities to ensure effective and timely action.
2.5      The Government proposes more systematic protection through proper
surveillance and training of farmers to destroy insects during their most
vulnerable stage.   However,  the estimated cost of providing logistical
support and pesticides to the Phytosanitary Units in the two Northern
Provinces is considered to be too high at a time of severe financial
constraints. The Government has requested that funds be included under this
project examine the cost/effectiveness of the Crop Protection Service and the
possibility of village/farmer participation in this activity.
2.6      Based on the preliminary results of a diagnostic study prepared by
the Government in September 1990, it has been concluded that providing
support to the Aerial Pest Control Unit (APCU) can be justified in that an
infusio; of funds in the form of a grant from the Government to APCU to
replace obsolete equipment, finance essential training and part of the
operating costs would enable APCU to operate in part on a self-sustaining
basis through receipts from its commercial pest control activities, and
permit APCU to continue supporting Government locust control activities in
the two Northern Provinces.
3For example, maize yield ranges from 1 to 1.5 tons per ha versuc the
potential of 3 tons per ha; sorghum and millet at 0.5 tons per ha compared to 1.5
tons per ha.



8
2.7      Marketins.  Storage  and  Processing.   Food marketing  is highly
competitive as proven by limited traders' margins, between 10 to 20 percent.
However, large differences between producer and consumer prices (two to three
times), and harvest and post harvest prices (3 to 4 times) reflect the
shortcomings of market infrastructure, i.e. high transportation costs,
restricted information to producers, limited storage capacity, large losses,
and small unit volumes per transaction. Around two thirds of food sales are
made immediately after harvest typically in small volumes by women, direct
producers or retailers (buyam-sellams, small local traders), who walk long
distances with head loads or use local pick-up taxis to reach open air
markets.   Sales are made directly to consumers or traders.   Farmers are
usually at a disadvantage because: (i) the trader is better informed; (ii)
the farmer has an urgent need for cash; and (iii) any unsold produce must be
carried back to the farm.   Sometimes, three-sided sheds can be found in
mark.t areas. in which products are protected from sun and rain, however
there are usually no facilities for longer-term storage or for assembly of
larger volumes of produce. Transport and handling costs are high and the
need for facilitating assembly of larger volumes and reducing unit costs is
a major constraint.
2.8      Cameroon's food security system relies heavily on the private markets
for storage, marketing, and processing.  There is a concentration of food
storage at the farm level, both for consumption and for speculation purposes.
Private traders play a minor role in food storage. Official storage is also
too insignificant to stabilize supply and price. At the farm level, storage
for consumption purposes suffers high losses estimated between 10 to 70
percent, depending on the locations and the crops. It was also observed that
about 60 to 75 percent of the crops reserved for sales were sold within two
months of harvest, depressing price levels in producing areas during this
period to about one third of the price received ly farmers outside the
harvesting season.   This is due to farmers' acute cash needs, inadequate
storage capacities, and high losses from existing capacities.   Improvement
of storage, especially village storage, will stabilize prices, reconstitute
family stocks, and enhance revenues for farmers, while retaining grain at the
village level during a longer period of the year instead of the massive
outflows presently occurring shortly after harvest.
2.9      Most urban and rural market infrastructure is inadequate.   Past
investments in market construction have been distributed disproportionately.
Government has financed the construction of markets only in the major urban
centers (Yaound4 and Douala). No real effort has been made to finance the
construftion/improvement of markets within secondary cities.  The few modern
markets, financed largely by government subsidies, are oversized and
extravagant, with consequent high operating charges, resulting in rental fees
too high for most  small  retailers.   Market construction/renovation is
considered a priority by many urban and rural councils. At present, there
are 22 urban and 170 rural councils in Cameroon.   However, with limited
financial resources, the Government is encouraging municipalities to raise
money from their own sources and from commercial lenders. This policy will
require the introduction of a cost recovery system by municipalities to
service loans and cover operating costs, including depreciation. The impact
of the new policy will lead to the construction of markets in accordance with



9
real needs and programmed according to financial capacities. Improved market
infrastructure is an element in the gradual intensification of urban-rural
linkages, central to increased income and employment generation in rural
areas.
Regulations and Policies Influencing Food Availability
2.10     Trade Regulations.  According to the 1989-91 General Trade Schedule,
exports are classified into free and regulated categories. Exports of cocoa,
coffee, cotton, forestry products, medicinal plants, food crops and animal
products  are  subject  to  regulation  for  purposes  of  stabilization,
environmental protection, protection of pharmaceutical industries and food
security.
2.11     Food exporters  are registered with the Ministry of Industrial
Development and Commerce (MINDIC) and are required to possess a valid
collection license issued by the divisional authority in the area of
collection. The collection license pertains not only to exporters, but to
any trader wishing to take produce out of a producing area. The controlled
products are not defined and seem to be determined entirely at the Prefect's
discretion.   Similarly,  the license does not specify the amount to be
collected.   Since it is impossible to prove or disprove the origin of
merchandise, a trader needs licenses from every food producing department
through which he transits to assure immunity from police interference. The
collection license reqiirement was lifted in May 1990.  Elimination of this
regulation on internal trade was a key factor in reducing the distribution
costs incurred in the form of administrative harassment and rent seeking by
officials. Exporters' registration with MINDIC is still required for export
of animals, products of animal origin and fishery products.   Removal of
export authorization would contribute to export diversification and expansion
of markets for local production.   The removal of prior authorization on
exports of animals, animal products, and fishery products, and the
simplification and decentralization of registration requirements for
exporters of food products with MINDIC will be made before loan effectiveness
(para. 7.2(a)).
2.12     Obtaining a transporter's license from the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport involves a time lag of between 2 to 8 months following
presentation of an application to the Prefect (including a policy record and
certificate of moral rectitude). Upon receiving the license the transporter
can begin trading only on receipt of a public transport card for his
vehicles, renewable annually at a cost of CFAF 100,000, commonly known as the
"Blue Card". Such unwieldy procedures are often evaded through bribery by
those who handle food, such as small transporters, farmers using their own
trucks, and small local traders known as "buyam-sellams". The regulations
penalize most of the modern elements of the trade and the small number of
trucking companies.   Policy reforms foreseen under an upcoming Transport
Sector Project (FY93) to streamline procedures under the transport sector
regulations would encourage large scale transport of food, lower unit costs
of distribution, and therefore increase availability of foodstuffs on the
local market at more reasonable prices.



10
Food Accessibility
2.13     Credit. Farmer Grouos and Rural Financing.  The current illiquidity
of the banking system and the dissolution of the state-owned specialized
agriculture bank, National Fund for Rural Development (FONADER), have
virtually eliminated formal sources of financing for agriculture.   A new
agricultural credit bank, Credit Agricole du Cameroun (CAC) was established
in April, 1987 and plans to open four provincial centers in 1991, and the
remaining five provinces to be covered the following year.   Loans to
smallholders are not favored by financial intermediaries due to lack of
collateral. The credit union movement in the anglophone part of the country
has a successful history of rural credit and is largely self-sufficient. The
credit unions, while slowly expanding in rural areas have encountered
difficulty in making high risk agricultural credit loans.   In the past,
subsidized credit has been diverted for housing and consumption purposes with
little incentive for loan repayment. Future credit programs should respond
to farmer needs, including consumption and investment loans, based on the
borrower's capacity to repay.
2.14     Informal savings and credit organizations, known as Itontines  or
onianais' are another important source of funds for the rural population,
particularly  women.    Tontine  groups  are  a  special  feature  of  rural
development in Cameroon, characterized by a long history of informal farmer
groups, about 2.000 country-wide, averaging between 100 and 400 per province.
Group membership may comprise an extended family, clan or district, or may be
established with a particular production, activity or focus. These farmer
groups, which comprise both men and women, are potentially an effective
contact point for dissemination of rural credit to a strata of the population
heretofore neglected.   Making credit  available  to this  sector of the
population for small lucrative or social-type investments in micro-projects
related to production, processing and marketing of agricultural products and
livestock, and small-scale infrastructure would lead to increased production
and incomes, an increase in the availability of food for auto-consumption and
for the local market, and diffusion of labor saving technologies,
particularly for women, thus providing more time to devote to child-care and
improved family nutrition.
2.15     A study on financing needs of farmer groups was carried out by
MINAGRI (Etude Pr6liminaire I la Hise en Place d'un Fonds d'Investissements
pour des Micro-Realisations Agricoles et Communautaires (FIMAC), May, 1989).
The study assessed the groups' structure, investment patterns, reasons for
success, and failure, and the availability of formal credit and other
financing in rural areas.  The failure of many grass-roots initiatives is
found to be due to poor group management.  Groups have little support in
evaluating productive activities and managing finances. Means of sensitizing
group members and raising their awareness is not always provided
systematically.  The study found that a strong demand exists for community
investments, particularly among women's groups. Since these groups are poor
and lack collateral or official status, their access to financing is very
limited and they have to rely on resources from NGOs, and/or from their own
savings and borrowing. Where credit is provided by a financial intermediary
or a project authority, it was found that the administrative cost is



11
prohibitively high, quite often higher than the amounts borroed. With the
current liquidity problem of the banking system, and its ongoing reforms, it
is not feasible to develop a traditional credit program through the official
credit  circuits  to  support  small,  communai  micro-projects  scattered
throughout the country.
Food Utilization/Nutrition
2 16         Nutrition  Situation.    The  1978  National  Nutrition  Survey
provides the only readily available comprehensive data on the nutrition
situation in Cameroon. According to the survey, among children between the
ages of 3 months to 4 years, 17.3Z were underweight according to weight-for-
age norms; 35.62 were stunted according to height-for-age norms; and 2.0S
were wasted according to weight-for-height criteria.4  While the rate of
wasting may appear low, the survey was conducted during the post-harvest
season when food supplies are at their peak.   The data indicated that
malnutrition was more prevalent in rural than in urban areas and that
significant regional differences exist; the Western, Eastern and North-
Western Provinces showed the highest rates of malnutrition. High rates of
maternal malnutrition, particularly in the Northern provinces, measured by
arm circumference and skinfold thickness indicators were also recorded.
2.17     Since the national survey, other, more limited nutrition surveys have
shown that the prevalence of protein-energy malnutrition of high risk groups
(children under the age of five years and pregnant and lactating women) has
not improved, and in the Western, Eastern and Extreme Northern Provinces has
actually deteriorated. Infant b.rthweight statistics collected between 1982
and 1988 corroborate this picture of poor nutrition in the country,
indicating that 132 of births are classified as low birthweight (less than
2500 g), a reflection of continuing maternal malnutrition.
2.18     In   addition   to   protein-energy   malnutrition,   micronutrient
deficiencies are widespread, the most important of which are iron and iod:ie
deficiencies. Iron deficiency anemia is estimated to affect 452 of children
under the age of five and 802 of pregnant women. Goiter, an indicator of
iodine deficiency, affects between 352 to 582 of the population in the East,
and pockets of the disease also can be found in the North-Western, Center,
Northern and Western Provinces.
2.19     Determinants of Malnutrition. The 1978 nutrition survey highlighted
low socio-economic status, illiteracy, overpopulation, inadequate childcare,
poor infant and child feeding practices, high incidence of infection and poor
utilization of health services as the major determinants of malnutrition.
Additional  research in Cameroon suggests that seasonal food shortages,
inadequate sanitation and access to potable water, and maternal dietary
practices should be added to the list.
4 Nutrition status indicators are expressed as percent of children below -
2 S.D. of the median value of the reference populLtion.



12
2.20     Within the context of food security the most important of these
factors are low socio-economic status associated with inadequate access to
food, seasonal food shortages and inappropriate infant and child feeding and
maternal dietary practices.   In view of the high ratio of food self-
suf f icency (96Z) in Cameroon, improving household access to and availability
of food would require an emphasis or. improvements in food distribution and
household purchasing power.  In combination with these efforts, nutrition
education could play a substantial role in effecting changes in feeding and
dietary practices through increasing knowledge to ensure that additional
income and access to food would be used in ways which improve nutrition.
Food Security StrateRy: Past and On-Going Actions
2.21     Cameroon's strong emphasis on food security is reflected in
Government's Food Security Strategy (Annex 1). The objective of the strategy
is to provide sufficient quantities of food to all the population to ensure
a healthy and active life.   Elements essential to the strategy are the
production of sufficient foodstuff and enabling the population to acquire it.
The strategy emphasizes measures to: (i) increase food production and crop
protection, storage and transportation facilities, market availability and
distribution channels; (ii) improve access of the poorest sectors of the
population by raising their purchasing power through financing employment-
generating activities, and improving the health and nutrition of the most
malnourished sectors of society; and (iii) strengthen institutions through
planning, coordination, and monitoring of the country's food situation. The
Government has taken a number of steps to improve the policy environment
(paras. 2.23-2.24), which are designed to reduce Government intervention,
encourage private sector participation, increase agricultural production, and
liberalize transport and marketing.  These actions are expected to go far
towards creating an enabling environment to attain the Government's food
security objectives.
Public Investments
2.22     Before the present financial crisis gripped the country, official
investments mainly supported parastatals and estates, whose production
accounted for about 10 percent of agricultural GDP. Research and extension
reaching traditional farmers, who contribute 90 percent of total agricultural
output, were largely neglected.  Attempts at regulating prices and supply
through parastatals such as the Cereal Office (Office Certalier-OC) and the
Food Development Authority (Mission de developpement des cultures vivrieres-
MIDEVIV) failed; MIDEVIV was neither able to procure sufficient food for
civil servants, nor assure the food security of the urban population at large
and has since been converted to a seed production parastatal, now slated for
privatization. The OC was meant to regulate the food supply and prices, and
to produce millet and sorghum seeds on a commercial basis. It has not been
able to regulate the cereals market because of restrictions on commercial



13
operations which, in the absence of adequate compensatory funding by the
Government, resulted in manipulation of limited quantities of cereals.
Policy Measures
2.23     The Government has already liberalized imports except for a few
strategic foodstuffs such as rice, sugar, and oil palm, for which
quantitative  restrictions  (Qrs)  remain.    Domestic  production  of these
products is protected under the equalization funds (Caisse de perequation),
established in July 1988 in response to dumping and subsidies from surplus
countries, and the fall in the dollar vis-a-vis the CPA Franc. Under the
SAL, the Government is committed to study the impact of Qrs and equalization
funds before reaching agreement with the Bank on whether and how these
products should be protected.
2.24     A liberal marketing environment for foodstuffs will continue.  The
Government intends to phase out regulations that affect internal and external
trade.    The  Government  will  withdraw  from  commercial  and  productive
activities, as well as stabilization of prices and supplies of grains through
stock holdings, and encourage private agents to assume these functions. In
general, agricultural parastatals are to be either liquidated, privatized, or
restructured for eventual privatization under the SAL program. With respect
to the Cereals Office (OC), as a first step, restrictions on commercial
operations have been lifted and management of the OC is to be permitted more
autonomy.   The Government intends to limit its financing to the provision of
an initial working capital of about CFAF 300 million to allow operations at
existing capacities of 7,500 tons. The OC should continue operations as a
self-financing entity, and compete with the private sector in grain purchases
and sales. It will no longer be required to hold a security stock as in the
past. Signature of a performance contract refltcting the above arrangements
has been effected as a condition of second tranche release of the SAL. The
void created by the reduction in OC activities will permit the private sector
to respond to the demands of the marketplace and eisure an adequate supply of
foodstuffs where demand exists.
Sui,ply Side Measures
2.25     Removal of supply constraints  remains a major concern  in the
Government food security strategy.  Rather than financing parastatals for
food production and marketing as in the past, the Government has reoriented
public investments towards research and extension to reach a larger number of
farmers through increasing the efficiency of national systems. Emphasis is
placed 'on improving the productivity of women, the chief producers and
providers of food, in growing food crops.   The ongoing extension program
addresses  this  issue  through  staff  recruitment  and  training,  and  tne
S  According to the FAO, price regulation is only effective if an agency
handles at least 20Z of the available quantities. Although this figure can be
contested, ,t suggests the insignificance of the amounts purchased by the OC in
the three northern provinces between 1979 and 1988, which averaged 5Z of total
grain available.



14
dissemination to groups of women of relevant messages concerning crops which
they cultivate such *s maize and tubers. This strategy is being implemented
under the Bank-financed National Agricultural Research Project (Ln 2766 CM)
and the National Agricultural Extension and Training Project (Ln 3185 CM).
2.26     Reducing livestock mortality and stemming meat imports also forms an
integral part of the supply side of the strategy.   The Government has
established  countervailirg  dutiea  on  meat  dumping,  and  streamlined
investments in the livestock subsector under the Livestock Sector Project (Ln
3110 CM).  Moreover, a strategy and action plan are under preparation to
promote the development of fishery resources to supplement protein
consumption and to reduce imports.
2.27     Timely  availability  of  inputs  is  essential  for  improving
productivity. The Government has already privatized fertilizer distribution,
and intends to extend the policy to include pesticides. Measures to move
towards private distribution of pesticides and reductions in public
subsidies,  are being implemented.   With the assistance of USAID,  the
Government is preparing a comprehensive program for private distribution of
these inputs.
2.28     Improvement in food distribution is another essential element to the
removal of supply constraints.   The Government is now preparing a Rural
Infrastructure Project with Bank assistance aimed at expanding the feeder
road network in the country to food-producing areas, and intr%Aucing simple
transport equipment to reduce the time required for food transport, actions
which will enhance marketing opportunities, particularly for women. Under
the proposed food security project, produce collection centers will be
constructed in rural centers, and marketing facilities upgraded and expanded
in important trade centers in both urban and rural areas. Village storage
will be encouraged to regulate food supply and prices, replacing gradually
the functions of the Office Cerealier.  Research and extension for food
processing and transformation technology will be provided under the National
Agricultural Extension and Training Project to reduce post-harvest losses,
increase value-added, and reduce imports.
Demand Side Measures
2.29     The Government  is increasingly aware of the  imnact of demand
constraints on the immediate and long-term food security position of the
country. Of prime concern is the deflationary strategy of stabilization with
its negptive impact on the population's income and its abilLty to acquire
food, and a resulting tendency for further degradation in the nutritional
status of the country. In the face of reduced incomes of the most vulnerable
groups (i.e. cocoa, coffee and cotton farmers, field workers in parastatals
to be retrenched), creation of employment opportunities becomes an urgent
concern. The Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project (SDA) (Ln 3206 CM), is
helping to address this problem through various institutional and financial
measures to facilitate the transfer of civil servants to the private sector.
Both the SDA Project and the proposed food security project will support
micro, labor intensive projects initiated by community groups in the urban
and rural areas respectively, aimed at increasing incomes of the poor.



15
2.30    Micro-Proiect Exoerience.  A first phase of the micro-enterprise
investment program (FIMAC) was launched in August 1990, with financing
provided from the balance of an ongoing Bank Project, PSAR II (Ln. 2567 CH4)
and a Japanese Grant.       The program finances micro-projects managed by
communities in eight Departments in the Extreme North, East, South and West
Provinces.6   This phase provides the logistical support required by the
program, finances the selection and training of the central level staff, the
nine FIMAC provincial coordinators, and a first group of departmental
coordinators. Training is focussing on project evaluation/management. The
first phase includes financing for the start-up of about 400 micro-projects
(57 infrastructure projects and 340 productive projects) over the next three
years,  including almost  40 projects  in 1991.   By February  1991,  the
provincial commissions, the provincial level staff and a number of the
departmental coordinators were in place. In the five other provinces, FIMAC
provincial project coordinators will be preparing the set-up of the
commissions and staff to launch the program during 1992, including the
at ministrative staff in the Northwest Province.   All provinces will be
covered by 1993. Agreement was obtained during negotiations of the proposed
project, on final operating procedures for FIMAC (paras. 3.4-3.9), which havo
been pre-tested in the field (7.1(b)).  Testing of FIiAC investments will
provide a framework for identifying future micro-project investments which
enhance food security  (processing,  storage, marketing)  at the community
level.
2.31    Although it is too early to evaluate the FIMAC, its administration
as well as its training component will have to be tailored to regions, given
the enormous diversity amonE regions. Heavy emphasis should be put in the
northern provinces and in the East compared to the rest of the country.
NGOs' involvement will also have to be more E ught in remote areas than in
central areas, whereas participation of government services minimised to one
of monitoring/evaluating the Project and technical extension.
2.32     Government Nutrition Programs.  Government's nutrition programs is
implemented through several ministries. Tne Ministry of Health (MINSANTE)
has attempted to provide comprehensive hea&th coverage -- including health
and nutrition education, vaccination and oral rehydration therapy -- to
children and pregnant women who attend health centers.   Each province
maintains a nutrition unit managed by a trained nutritionist. In addition to
MINSANTE, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Womer. Conditions(MINASCOF)
trains and equips community workers who carry out home visits. The Ministry
of Agriculture (MINAGRI) through the Department of Community Development
(DEVCOM) trains staff to educate the public on infant feeding, food
preparation and weaning diets.   The Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientific Research (MESIRES) carries out basic and applied research on
nutrition.   The Government also continues to support food-for-work and
6Same procedures and operating guidelines will be applied to the "Village
Development Fund", a component of MIDENO's Second Phase Project in the North West
Province. The administrative support necessary to evaluate and supervise the
micro-projects financed by the MIDENO Project, will be covered by the lIMNC
component of the proposed Food Security Project.



16
supplementary feeding programs for schools, clinics and hospitals through
donations from the World Food Prograsm (WFP.   In the face of an ever-
worsening economic situation over the last three years, all of these programs
have suffered severe budgetary cuts.
2.33     Despite  financial  problems,  the  Government  is  determined  to
strengthen primary health care services. Recently, in an effort to promote
intersectoral collaboration among technical ministries involved in nua;rition
programming, a pilot program including nutrition and health education, food
preparation and cooking demonstrations, nutrition surveillance, vaccination,
and oral rehydration therapy through community participation was begun on a
pilot basis in 10 Maternity and Infant Protection Centers in Yaound(. Health
and nutrition are also being addressed under the Social Dimensions of
Adjustment (SDA) project, which intends to, inter alia, improve the budgetary
process, monitor nutrition status, and provide nutrition education through
the primary school curriculum and primary health care centers.
2.34    A number of religious based missions intervene on health issues in
the northern and eastern rural areas and provide both preventive and curative
health services through the primary and maternal child health centers. In
most cases, nutritional diagnostic methods are well developed. Difficulties
remain in communicating messages to target groups and educating them to
follow recommended remedies.
2.35     Food aid is limited in Cameroon, largely provided by the World Food
Program (WFP).   The main activities of the WFP are development-orierted
projects which use food supplies as a mechanism for supporting relief
activities and social projects.   While this orientation will continue,
emphasis will be increasingly made on purchase of food produced locally and
distributed in the context of development-oriented activities, an approach
which will be promoted under the Project.
Administrative Organization and Institutions
2.36     Cameroon comprises 10 Provinces managed by Provincial Delegates
representing each ministry and 49 Departments where Government ministries are
representedt
Province              No. of Departments
Extreme North                         6
, North                                4
Adamaoua                              5
Northwest                             5
Central                               a
South                                 3
Littoral                              4
East                                  4
West                                  6
Southwest                             4



17
2.37     Many institutions are involved in food security responsibilities,
including Government ministries, local government bodies, cooperatives and
non-governmental  organizations.    The Ministry of Agriculture  (HINAGRI)
comprises seven Directorates, three of which, the Direction des Projets
Agricoles (DPA), the Direction du Developpement Communautaire (DEVCOM), and
the Direction Agricole (DIRAGRI), are responsible for locust control
services, and community development activities, an area in which the Ministry
of Social Affairs and Feminine Condition (MINASCOF) is equally active.
DEVCOM. the Ministry of Health (MINSANTE) and the Ministry of Higher
Education and Scientific Research (MESIRES) collaborate in implementing
health and nutrition peograms. together with NGOs.   -he Direction des
Enquetes Agro-economiques et de la Planification Agricole (DEAPA) of MINAGRI
is  responsible  for agricultural  surveys.    Each ministerial  Provincial
Delegation is responsible for implementation of individual ministry work
programs and fall under the authority of the Provincial Delegates who in turn
are responsible for provincial coordination activities, and who report
directly to the respective Ministers.
2.38     The Aerial Pest Control Unit (APCU) was established (Decree No. 85-
1201 of August 30, 1985. modified by Decree No. 8811178 of September 8, 1988)
as a public institution of an industrial and commercial nature endowed with
legal status and financial autonomy under the auspices of HINAGRI.  APCU
responsibilities  4nclude: (i) implementing government policy regarding the
aerial treatment of crops, mainly by determining the most economical and
effective methods of aerial treatment for crop and epizootic diseases; (ii)
organizing national aerial crop culture campaigns against crop pests likely
to affect rural production; (iii) providing practical guidance to farmers and
training in agricultural aviation for officials in conjunction with the
Ministry responsible for civil aviation; and (iv) coordinating all the
activities for aerial protection of crops, forests and wildlife.  APCU is
managed by a coordinating board comprising: the governor of the Northern
Province, the Director of Agriculture; provincial delegates of agriculture
and chiefs of phytosanitary bases of the zones concerned; a representative of
MINFI; a representative of MINEPIA, Ministries of Defense, Transport and
Public Health. It received no subsidies from the Government during 1989/90
and managed to generate sufficient income to maintain partly its operations
through the provision of commercial services to agro-industries.
2.39     Credit Foncier du Cameroun (CFC) is a public financial institution
responsible for urban development and housing.   Its Board of Directors
comprises representatives of the Presidency, the supervising ministry (MINFI)
and the,public savings and insurance agencies.  Under the management of a
Director General, there are two departmentst Finance and Operations. Its
resources, primarily based on a 32 wage tax, as well as savings' deposits,
were mainly used for housing loans.   CFC's financial situation remains
healthy, despite an end to government's transfer of employees' contributions.
CFC is in the process of expanding its lending operations to municipalities
supported by a two year technical assistance program with French aid (FAC) to
reinforce CFC's technical and financial know-how.  Under the Second Urban
Project (Ln. 2999-CM), CFC was entrusted to nanage a line of credit to
finance income-earning municipal projects.



18
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
2.40    The Bank has been involved in 25 projects in Cameroon since 1967.
Much of the Bank's early lending focussed on nucleus estate smallholder
plantation projects. Since the mid-1970s, smallholder projects and regional
rural development projects integrating productive and infrastructure
components were emphasized.  In 198o the Bank began to move towards sub-
sector projects to address key agricultural issues identified as bottlenecks
to achieving productivity growth such as research, input supply, extension,
marketing and credit. The Agricultural Sector kteview identified productivity
increases as the key to agricultural growth.  The Bank's future strategy
includes the following objectives: (a) maximizing food production to ensure
food security for the population and to exploit the country's comparative
advantage in producing food for export in the region; (b) expanding exports
of traditional and non-traditional products to the extent that they can be
absorbed in the world market at reasonable prices, while improving quality
and diversifying the export base; and (c) creating opportunities for rural
employment to reduce the income gap between urban and rural areas and
stemming rural emigration.  The proposed project is a key element in the
Government's aforementioned food security strategy of supporting agricultural
production increases by intensifying smallholder production. 5 proving
marketing and processing, and raising women's agricultural productivity.
2.41    Lessons learnt from past projects have been incorporated in the
design of the proposed Food Security Project: (i) use of existing public and
private institutions for implementation rather than creating new ones; (ii)
implementation shall be decentralized and mainly carried out by NGOs,
farmers' groups and municipalities, limiting Government's intervention to
'public good' services i.e. locust control, provision of statistical
information, and nutrition education; this marks a departure from previous
operations which supported Government involvement in productive and
commercial activities; (iii) with two thirds of the proposed Loan composed of
various credit schemes, the Project finances essentially activities
identified, prepared, implemented by beneficiaries and best suited to their
needs; the highly participative nature of the Project will contribute to its
development impact; (iv) reliance on budgetary support for counterpart
financing has been minimised, given the State's severe resource problem,
nevertheless the financing plan remains very solid, with important
contributions to be made by beneficiaries, municipalities, and APCU.
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Rationale and Obiectives
3.1      The Government has elaborated a National Food Security Strategy
(Annex 1). The implementation of priority measures articulated in the above
strategy has already started under various projects mentioned earlier. Food
security in Cameroon is consistent with growth objectives since the food
production subsector has high comparative advantage, and contributes to
employment and income generation.  The Project will improve access to and
availability of food by creating opportunities for increasing employment and



19
incomes of the poor and by addressing food distribution constraints.  It
therefore forms an integral part of the Government's development strategy and
the Bank's lending objectives in Cameroon, which are to support growth and
mobilize the participation of underprivileged groups in the economic recovery
process. A number of other donors are also con, erned witl food security but
have not heretofore taken action due to the lack of defined programs.
Government's finalized strategy statement as well as the proposed project
will translate priority programs into operations designed to have a sustained
impact on the long term food security position of the country, and mobilize
donor support for a coherent investment program in the sub-sector.
3.2      The project aims at improving food security by creating employment
opportunities, raising the purchasing power of disadvantaged groups in rural
areas, especially women, to enhance their access to food, reducing the impact
of locust attacks on food production through the strengthening of the APCU
Crop Protection Service, increasing efficiency in marketing and storage of
foodstuffs through institutional support, and improving feeding and dietary
practices through a pilot nutrition education program. Investments envisaged
under the Project in support of these objectives, when added to activities
financed under several other projects (notably the SDA Project, the National
Agricultural Research Project, the National Agricultural Extension and
Training Project, the SAL), will together enable the Government to implement
its entire food security strategy.
Proiect Description
3.3      Project components, to be implemented in the entire country unless
otherwise stated, will include the followings
(a) self-help initiatives by community groups in micro-projects such as
inve3tmentb  in  commercial  cash  generating  activities  (e.g.
retailing), non-comuercial productive activities and infrastructure
projects (e.g. food processing and transformation equipment,
watering points for livestock, fish ponds and rural tracks), in the
entire country except for the Northwest Province, plus an emphasis
on village storage in the Extreme North; training; and institutional
support to HINAGRI in all provinces to assist 4n project
implementation;
(b) locust control in the North and Extreme North Provinces over a
three-year period;
(c) establishing an early warning combined with a market information
, system over three years;
(d) construction and renovation of market -'acilities in urban and rural
communes;
(e) developing and implementing a pilot nutrition education program,
over a three year period, for high risk groups (children under five
years and pregnant and lactating women) in one department in the
Extreme Northern, Eastern, and Western Provinces, and the urban
slums of Douala City; and formulating a national nutrition education
strategy;



20
Detailed Features
3.4      Support to Rural Community Micro-proiects (Annex 2). Under the FIMAC
component, financial assistance, including group credits, will be made
available for the implementation of micro-projects initiated by community
groups, based on experience gained under the pilot program (para. 2.30).
Financing will not exceed 60-702 of project costs submitted by groups who
will finance the balance in cash and in kind.   Reimbursements would be
deposited in a local bank or post office account managed by groups'
sponsoring organization (para. 3.8) (pages 5-8; Annex2). Consequently the
funds will be retained at the decentralized local level.    The program's
objective is to allow local groups to manage project works and project funds,
while minimizing administrative costs and delays. Recovered funds will be
used to finance future investments by the same group or other groups.  In
this mairner, management of local level rural investments related to food
security needs shall be vested in groups of people, rather than in
Government.
3.5      The community group investment approach has already been tested with
success on a pilot scale in Cameroon. Revolving funds, similar in concept to
the 1tontinesQ, the traditional savings, group in Cameroon, have been set-up
in the Northwest province by NGOs for groups whose members make individual
uses in turn and reimburse the fund. Under the Project, revolving funds for
groups will be set-up in all provinces, except in the Northwest Province
which already benefits from similar existing schemes.
3.6      Two kinds of financing will be made available for group investments
under the FIMAC componentt (i) an experimental micro-credit program for
commercial cash generating investments (e.g. retailing, manufacturing), at
commercial interest rates (not less than lS2/year), with a maximum repayment
period of 4 years, and a maximum loan amount of CFAF 4,000,000 (US$16,000
equivalent, and (ii) financing, with cost recovery, for non-commercial
social-type investments for improving food self-sufficiency of groups (e.g.
farm tools and equipment, and infrastructure such as village storage,
livestock watering points, fish ponds, rural tracks), with financing not to
exceed CFAF 500,000 (US$1,900 equivalent) and a repayment period of less than
4 years in the case of small equipment, and a maximum financing amount of
CPAF 6,000,000 (US$23,000 equivalent) and a repayment period of less than 10
years in the case of infrastructure projects. (Chemical inputs, social and
communications infrastructure would be excluded under the program.)
3.7      The credit component will make credit available to beneficiary groups
not presently served by commercial banks, by making use of institutions
better able to reach those groups. This would be done in full consistency
with the Bank's new guidelines for financial sector operations, through
application of market-level interest rates: funds would be onlent by the
Government to the borrowers at a rate equivalent to commercial-type rates in
the agriculture sector, currently at 15 percent.
3.8      The program will complement overall efforts to rehabilitate the
financial sector which are being undertaken under the Bank-financed SAL.



21
These rehabilitation efforts aim in particular at restructuring major
commercial banks in order to restore their long-term viability and at
gradually reestablishing adequate liquidity in the banking sector, thereby
improving the system's ability to finance productive investment in the
economy.   Parallel actions are aimed at improving the banking environment
through the restoration of the necessary financial discipline and of an
efficient, competent and transparent judiciary system.
3.9  .  Beneficiaries of the FIMAC component will be rural groups, averaging
15 members, recognized by traditional and administrative authorities, and
sponsored by an NGO or a Regional Development Agency. The group will have to
form a management committee, and contribute between 30 to 402 of the project
cost in kind and cash. An agreement will be concluded between the group and
its identified sponsor and the departmental coordinator of FIMAC, describing
the project and its costs, the amount of financing from FIMAC and the group
as well as the reimbursement schedule (sample agreement end-Annex2). Income
based poverty indicators have been established to ensure that target groups
would be the beneficiaries of loans.
3.10         Reimbursement Procedures:  Repayments will be deposited in a
savings account in the name of the sponsor (NGO, Village Development
Committee, Area Development Company).  The sponsor should be sufficiently
broad-based to cover several groups at a time. Transactions on the account
will require two signatures from the sponsor and the departmental
coordinator, a staff from Ministry of Agriculture.  Funds can be used for
another project once all repayments for the previously financed project are
made. Funds reconstituted can be rotated among groups under the same sponsor
agency.    The  sponsor  agencies,  quite  often  NGOs  or  parapublic  area
development companies, will be responsible for managing the rotating funds
(FIMAC scheme on page 7-Annex 2).   In case of a default, the provincial
commission (para. 5.3) of FIMAC will decide on the use of funds already
deposited. In case of non-reconstitution of funds, no further financing will
be provided to the group.7 Equipment financed by FIMAC will be reposessed and
group collateral seized.7
3.11         Training of community leaders and participants in community
projects will be an important element of the FIMAC program, ranging from
awareness-raising to workshop training for operation and maintenance, and
fina-.al discipline and management training for group leaders.  Training
will focus on implementation of micro-projects, and will also include
specialized technical training on production and processing activities
financed by FIMAC.  Training will include regular sessions, workshops, as
well as brief organized visits to technical centers.   Training will be
carried out by specialized training institutes, NGOs, and the field staff of
technical ministries (MINAGRI, MINASCOF, MINEPIA) depending on the demand.
7Collective ownership of assets is uncommon among the rural poor, hence the
difficulty of introducing the concept of group collateral.  Nonetheless, the
ongoing FIMAC program is in the process of developing procedures requiring
collective assets, when they exist, to be offered as security by participant
groups.



22
Financing requests for training will be prepared and submitted by sponsors.
who will select from a menu of training options made available by the
departmental coordinator.  Requests will be examined and approved by the
provincial commission.  A maximum training allowance of CFAF 80,000 and
supervision allowance of CFAP 80,000 per micro-project has been included in
project costs. Groups will contribute to the financing of the training up to
5OZ of total cost. On average CFAF 4,000 per trainee will be paid by groups
(average group size would be 10 to 15).
3.12     It is expected that about 1700 micro-projects benefitting about 2,000
groups will be implemented under the *ntire program during the next five
years. Progression in the number of projects will be gradual, starting with
40 projects in 1990/91, in order to test the operational nature of guidelines
and identify successful activities. Two thirds of projects shall be financed
in project years 4 and S. The program will constitute a transitional phase
for disadvantaged communities before they can have access to an established
financial intermediary. During this period, groups will receive support to
finance investments while being trained to assume financial responsibilities
i.e. analyzing costs, reconstituting funds.
3.13     The micro-projects in the Extreme North Province will emphasize a
pilot program of village storage (Annex 2.1) for about 200 groups of farers.
The construction of storage facilities will be financed under the FIMAC
program. The World Food Program (WFP) will finance the purchase of small
equipment, and half of the initial stock to enable the group to start with
some working capital. Training will be provided to farmers' groups in proper
storage techniques, and the management of the stock.  If successful, the
program will serve as a model to be replicated in other parts of the country.
Execution of village storage component will be similar to the infrastructure
micro-projects under the FIMAC component.
3.14     Technologies for conservation and processing of food crops will be
addressed under the National Agricultural Extension and Training Project,
which will carry out research and on-farm demonstrations, and provide
training to extension workers as well as to farmers on existing and new
technologies. The financing of equipment and materials required for this
purpose will be included under the FIMAC program.
3.15     Locust Control Program (Annex 3)    Support to aerial crop protection
services in the North and Extreme North Provinces will be provided to the
APCU in the form of a grant from the Government to finance vehicles,
equipme4t and training to enable APCU to provide anti-locust treatments
through aerial spraying of some 652 of the area infested, and ass;st in
ground treatment activities. APCU shall generate sufficient funds to operate
its commercial activities, provide its own operating budget and contribute
about 20Z annually to the recurrent cost of the Government's anti-locust
campaign, and the balance to be financed by government contribution to the
project. Specialized training in crop-dusting techniques will be provided
for pilots, and aircraft-maintenance and repair training for aircraft
mechanics. A study will be financed under the project through MINAGRI to
determine the cost/effectiveness of the ground treatment activities of the



23
Crop Protection Service and the possibility of farmer participation in crop
protection in the two Northern Provinces.
3.16    Information System for Early Warning and Markets (Annex 4).  To
reinforce Government's contingency planning capacity in face of severe
shortfalls in production, as well as enhancing the transparency of markets,
regular information of food markets and food situation will be provided under
this component.
3.17    Over a three year period,  the project will provide technical
assistance, equipment, and training for establishing and operating an early
warning and market information system within MINAGRI to collect, analyze, and
diffuse information related to food security.  The outputs of this system
will be:
(a) the publication and distribution to Government planners of a
quarterly news bulletin by Province that will analyze the food
supply and demand situation based on information on weather,
production, input supply, prices, volume of main food crops traded,
stocks, food imports and exports, and include a qualitative note on
the population in the high risk zones received from NGOs, field
observations from provincial delegations of MINAGRI, and from
development parastatals;
(b) a weekly radio program reporting pricing and marketing information
from selected market points throughout the country.
3.18     Construction/Renovation of Market Infrastructure (Annex 5).   Under
the Project, a limited amount of financing (CFAF 1 billion) (US$ 4.1 million
equivalent) will be made avaiiable to the Credit Foncier du Cameroun to be
lent to municipalities according to criteria detailed in para. 5.8 for
construction  of market  infrastructure.   An  amount  of US$0.5 million
equivalent will be provided for training seminars for rural and urban
councils on the new policy to finance market infrastructure by own sources
and bank borrowirg rather than government subsidies, the criteria to be
adopted for financing,  project evaluation,  and financial management of
markets.  If successful, further financing could be provided under future
projects.
3.19    Nutrition Education (Annex 6).  This component of the project is
designed to improve nutrition of high risk groups (children under five years
and preonant and lactating women) by effecting changes in inappropriate child
feeding and maternal dietary practices, and to provide the foundation for the
development of a national nutrition education strategy. Activities supported
under the project include:   research and analysis of child feeding and
maternal dietary practices; formulation of a national nutrition education
strategy; educational materials development and testing; pilot program
implementation in several departments of the three Provinces with the highest
rates of malnutrition; evaluation of the pilot program and the development of
guidelines for the expansion of nutrition education throughout the country.
Staff will be trained in qualitative research techniques consisting of
collecting qualitative data (focus group, ethnographic accounts and testing



24
within households). data analysis to identify problems and elaborate a
strategy, and production of pedagogical material. Training will be provided
in communication techniques to about 400 field agents in the use of
pedological materials  and dissemination of messages.   Training will be
provided to members of the technical coordinating committee and field staff
in the design, data collection and analysis for program evaluation. Training
will emphasize individual counselling sessions, group discussions, and
interpersonal communication.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.1      The cost of the Project has been estimated at CFAF 9,2087 billion
(USS 15.7 million equivalent), of which CFAF 4,420 billion (US$ 17.0 million
equivalent) or 462 is foreign exchange. The estimates are based on prices
prevailing in July 1990, including US$0.4 million in taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been included on all costs, except
the FIMAC fund and CFC line of credit.   Price contingencies are based on the
Bank's projections of international price increases (.1,-.04,.016,.038,.040
percent from 1992 to 1996).   Local inflation is estimated at one percent
lower in accordance with the inflation rate targeted under the SAL. Detailed
cost tables are provided in Annex 7 and in the Project File.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY 1/
Foroign
Local  Foroign  Total    Exchangs X Total
------ USS Millono        X      Base Costs
Micro-Projects              11.1    7.3   18.4        89.6      67.3
Locust Control Program       1.1    3.9    6.0        77.3      16.8
Information Systeva         0.6    0.7    1.3         63.7       4.1
Market Infrastructure        3.5    2.4    6.0        40.6      18.6
Nutrition                    0.6    0.8    1.4        66.2       4.6
TOTAL BASE COSTS            17.0   15.1   32.1        46.9     100.0
Physical Contingencies       0.6    0.7    1.3        67.9       4.0
Price Contingoncies          1.2    1.2    2.4        50.9       7.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         18.7   17.0   86.7        47.6     111.4
(Including Taxes)
Taxos                       (0.4)   (0.0)   (0.4)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         18.8   17.0   36.3
(Not of'Taxes)



25
Financ kg
4.2     Components will be financed as follows:
Municipal-
Govt.  Oroups  APCU  *Itltilo  ImR   Japan Totol
Micro-Projects           LU             NlT3    2M. 3           -U
Locust Control     1.6            1.4          2.3           5.4
Information System                                    1.5   1.6
Market Infrastructuro                    1.1   4.6           6.8
Nutrition                                       1.5          1.5
Total              1.6   8.6    1.4    1.6  238.    8.   8 5.8
6X  1iX       4X     6X   65X   11!   1U!x
4.3     The proposed loan will be made on standard terms vith 20 year maturity
and a grace period of 5 years.   Japanese co-financing is being used to
finance technical assistance, vehicles and equipment, training and operating
costs under the FIMAC and Early Warning and Market Information System
components.
Onlending Procedures
4.4     CFC.  US$4.1 million equivalent will be on-lent from the Government
to CFC, with 20 year maturity and a grace period of 5 years, at a fixed
interest rate equal to the on-going Bank rate, plus a 1.25Z margin to cover
for the foreigr. exchange risk assumed by the Government, and from CFC to
municipalities, at an interest rate equal to 132 or more, thus providing CFC
with an adequate margin for its intermediation role. Loans to municipalities
will have a maximum maturity of 10 years, including a grace period of 2
years.   On-lending terms to municipalities are specified in a project
agreement between the Bank and CFC and in a subsidiary loan agreement for
Government retrocession of the loan to CFC.   Execution of the subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and CFC will be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 7.2(c)).  The municipalities way borrow up to 70Z of
project costs which should not exceed US$ 300,000 equivalent per project with
an economic rate of return of at least 15Z. Subprojects above USS 150,000
equivalent will be submitted to the Bank for prior approval. An additional
amount of US$0.5 million equivalent will be passed on to CFC in the form of
a grant for training and information ac.ivities.
4.5     FIMAC.  Rural community groups can borrow under FIMAC up to 75Z of
total cost of a proposed project, with an economic rate of return of 15Z
depending on the nature of the project. The maximum amount of each financing
will be US$l,900 equivalent and US$16,000 equivalent for non-commercial and
commercial   activities,   respectively,   and  US$23,000  equivalent  for
infrastructure projects.  Commercial activities would be financed through
credits at a 15Z rate of interest, with a maximum repayment period of 4
years. Social and infrastructure projects would be financed, at no interest,
with a maximum repayment period of 4 and 10 years respectively. Withdrawals
made under the FIMAC component will be authorized by the Provincial Delegates
from the Agriculture Ministry and Provincial Controller of Finance, for
direct payments to suppliers of the project and to sponsors for training. A
savings account under the sponsor's name in the nearest bank or post office



26
vill be the depository of reimbursed funds. This account will operate under
the signatures of the sponsor and the FIMAC departmental coordinator (page 5
Annex 2).  Reimbursed funds will finance projects submitted by the same
groups or other groups supervised by the same sponsor. Management of these
revolving funds will resemble that of traditional savings group in the
country. No banking establishment will be created, interest paid only on
commercial cash-generating investments, and relatively low administrative
costs incurred. The funds, which in most previous donor projects, have been
managed by Government to undertake infrastructure investment, or finance
productive operations with low recovery rates, will be used by local groups
to undertake investments.
4.6    APCU. For the aerial locust control program in the North and Extreme
North Provinces, an amount of US$2.2 million equivalent will be passed on to
APCU by the Government in the form of a grant to replace obsolete equipment
and provide staff training.  Execution of a grant agreement between the
Government and APCU will be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 7.02
(d)).
Procurement
4.7    All goods and services funded under the Bank loan will be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines (Annex d).



27
Procurowent Arrgnaemntesg/
International               Total
items              L%t   LC    Local         Other     N.A. CoS
Shoppino
Vehicloe              1.1                                       1.8
IquIpeent             2.0    1.2                                3.1
(2.0)    4                                24
Rural Micro-Invostment
Crodit (fIMAC scheme)                 13.0                     18.6
(10.2)                   (19.2)
CFC LIne of Credit           4.2      1.6                       6.0
(8.0)    (1.1)                    (4.1)
Technical Aseistance b/                         2.9             2.9
21 |           1 
Training c/                                              2.6    2.6
Operating Costs                                         6.1    6.1
TOTAL               3.3    6.4    15.2       2.9      6.6   85.4
Bank Financing     (2.9)   (.4   (11.8)     (1.0)    r I  (23.9)
Japanoe  Financing  iO.3]  (o7]             (1.9]           EsS CIS]
X  Amountrs in round parentheses () indiaer loank financing *nd amounts square parenthee. 1 denote
Japanese financinl
pj  Include aounts tor itoes financed by Japan which will be procured following Sank guideline.
(Numbers may not add due to rounding).
b/ Recruitment of technical assistance will follow Sank guidelines and will be subject to prior
review by tho Bank.
c/ Training costs include oversess training for APCU staff, preparation of numrous course for local
staff, training of bendficlary groups at the village level under the micro-investmnt (FIMAC)
component, training of MINSANTE staff, *aterials and training-related travel.
All contracts for vehicles, valued at a total amount of US$1.3 million, will be
procured under ICB. Contracts for equipment exceeding US$50,000 will be procured
under ICB, while those below US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$1.2 million will
be procured under LCB because of the relatively small value of these contracts.
CFC line of credit mainly involves construction of markets scattered throughout
the country. LCB procurement will be followed for contracts exceeding US$50,000
aggregating to about US$4.2 million with Bank financing limited to US$3.0
million.   These will include local advertising,  public bid openLng, clearly
spelled out criteria  for bid evaluation   and award to the lowest bidder.
Procurement for small and simple contracts less than US$50,000 and aggregating
to about US$1.6 million with Bank financing limited to US$1.1 million will be
based on  local  shopping with a minimum of three quotations.   Procurement
arrangements under the rural micro-credit (FIHAC) scheme, to be relent to the
beneficiaries for tools, materials, and small equipment, each contract will be
less than US$25,000, scattered throughout the country, up to an aggregate of



28
US$13.6 million will follow normal commercial practices and as a minimum will be
made on the basis of local or international shopping, with price quotations
obtained from not less than three reputable suppliers (para. d(l); d(2) page 5
of 16, Annex 2), not excluding participation from foreign based suppliers.
Operating costs for vehicle maintenance and fuel, travel, office expenses and
miscellaneous items for MINAGRI and MINSANTE will follow Government procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The threshold for prior review of procurement by the
Bank will be US$50,000 per contract.
Disbursements
4.8    The Bank loan will be disbursed over a six-and-one-half year period
(Annex 9). The schedule of disbursements is based on the standard Cameroonian
disbursemer - profile for agricultural projects. Operating expenditures, training
and research, and contracts for less than US$25,000 will be disbursed against
Statements of Expenditures  (SOEs).   Claims for other expenditures will be
reimbursed on the basis of supporting documents. Documentation of SOEs will be
made available for review by Bank supervision missions. Two special accounts
will be opened in a commercial Bank in Yaoundd and managed by the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA), each representing about four months of expenditures, as
follows: (i) special account of US$1.5 million for MINAGRI, APCU, aad MINSANTE;
(ii) special account of US$500,000 for CFC.   The special accounts will be
replenished by the Bank against documented expenditures and upon receipt of
withdrawal applications. Japanese cofinancing will be disbursed first, while
disbursement of Bank financing will commence only when Japanese funds are
exhausted.
4.9    Bank financing of incremental operating costs has not been provided on
a declining percentage basis over the life of the Project. Support to certain
components of the project, such as FIMAC, is noL expected to continue after
project completion since the objective of the program is to bring small investors
into the mainstream of the commercial credit system. Similarly, it is expected
that APCU will increase its commercial activities over time and will be in a
position to make a greater contribution to government locust control activities.
In addition, of the project's total recurrent costs (US$6.0 million equivalent),
Bank financing amounts to 28? of total, significantly below the maximum permitted
by Bank rules.    Remaining costs are covered by the Government (292), a
government agency -APCU- (23S), beneficiaries (31). and cofinancers (17Z).



29
Disbursements
Percentage of
Amount         Expenditures to
Categorv                                (US$ Million)       be Financed
MINAGRI
Sub-projects under Micro-investment
Credit (FIMAC scheme)                       8.5    1002 up to 751 of esttiated sub-
project cost
Vehicles, equipment and materials           0.9   1002 of foreign expenditures
8s2 of local expenditureos
Consultant Services and
Training                                   2.0    100X
Operating Costs                            1.0    1002
CFC Line of Credit
Subloans                                    4.1    1002 up to 702 ot estisated sub-
project coat
Consultant Services & Training             0.5    1002
APCU
Vehicles & Equipment                        2.0    1002 of foroign expenditures
852 of local expeodituyr
Training                                   0.2    1002
MINSANTE
Vehicles & Equipment                        0.4    100X of foreign expenditures
852 of local *xpendiureo
Consultant Services,
& Training                                 0.6    100o
Operating Costs                            0.6    1002
Unallocated                                 2.2
TOTAL                                23.0
Revorting
4.10   Annual work programs, including training programs, and budget for each
component of the project will be prepared before the start of each budget cycle
by MINAGRI, MINSANTE, APCU, and transmitted by MINAGRI to the Bank, for its
review and approval.  Semi-annual progress reports will be prepared by each
implement.ng agency assessing physical, institutional and budgetary progress
against agreed annual programs of operations and targets. CFC's reports will
include progress on the use of funds by councils for the construction and



30
renovation of markets. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, not
later than November 30 1991 for the first year, and no later than June 30 of each
year thereafter, the work programs and budgets will be forwarded to the Bank for
review and approval (para. 7.1(a))  Under the FIMAC component, operating budgets
for provincial and departmental administration of FIMAC, will be prepared for
each province by DPA staff and consolidated into a global work program and budget
by FIMAC staff at the central level.  In addition, an evaluation report of
activities undertaken during the previous 12 months period, will be submitted to
the Bank each year by FIMAC's central level staff, along with its work programs
and budgets. Approval of FIMAC's work program and budget, and satisfaction with
the progress of activities undertaken during the previous year, including
acceptable audits of provincial FIMAC accounts, and capital reconstitution
accounts in the departments (para. 4.11), shall condition disbursements after
October 1 of each year (para. 7.3). A mid-term review of the FIMAC component
will be undertaken jointly by Government and the Bank by December 31, 1994, in
order to review: implementation of group projects; status of capital
reconstitution accounts on a random basis; training of the various farmer groups;
and the efficiency in the administration of small rural micro-projects.
Accounts and Audits
4.11   Each executing agency of the above-listed components (MINAGRI, MINSANTE,
CFC, APCU) will maintain accounting records for Project costs, consistent with
sound accounting practices which will reflect fairly, in accordance with
international accounting principles, the financial situation of the Project.
Project financial statements, operations of the special accounts, as well as
annual financial statements of CFC and APCU will be audited by a qualified
independent firm under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Audited accounts and
reports, will be submitted to the Bank for review within six months of the end
of each fiscal year. The audit will also assess as to whether goods and services
had been procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, and would
provide an opinion on the reliability of the SOE procedures. Unsatisfactory
reporting or failure to provide accounts within 90 days of the above deadline
will cause for reverting to disbursements on documentary evidence. In addition,
in view of the numerous deeintralized accounts under the FIMAC component, six-
monthly verification reports by a qualified independent accountant of provincial
and departmental fcapital reconstitution) accounts, the latter on a random basis,
will be required to evaluate (a) statement of expenditures authorized and
submitted to CAA by provincial delegates of MINAGRI and MINFI, through the
central administration of FIMAC; (b) status of reconstitution accounts, including
repayment schedules and interest payments by beneficiary groups.
Post-Proiect Incremental Recurrent Costs
4.12   The Government's Public Investment Program has earmarked an amount of
CPA? 200 million (US$770,000 equivalent) in 1990/91, and CPAP 500 million
(US$1,900,000 equivalent) a year for the following three years on project
expenditures,  totaling CPA? 1.7 billion  (US$6.5 million equivalent).   In
addition, an amount of CPA? 70 million (US$270,000 equivalent) is included for
APCU activities.   Annual operating costs following the project period are
estimated to be CFPA 580 million per annum, oiL O.3 of Government recurrent



31
expenditures (excluding wvges and interest payments) of about CFAF 170 billion
in 1989/90.
V. ORGANIZATION AND HANAGEMENT (Annex 10)
5.1    All components will be supervised by MINAGRI. The market infrastructure
component will be managed by CrEdit Foncier du Cameroon, in collaboration with
MINAT (Ministry of Territorial Administration). the nutrition component will be
implemented by the Hinistry of Health (HINSANTE), and the locust program will be
implemented by APCU. The overall coordination of project administration will be
done by MINAGRI. MINAGRI, in cooperation with other implementing agencies, will
be responsible for preparing a general annual report, a global budget and work
plan of all project components for the following year.  An implementation
schedule is attached (Annex 10.2).
5.2    FIHAC Program. The Direction des Projets Agricoles (DPA) of MINAGRI will
be responsible for implementing the FIDAC program.  At the central level in
Yaoundd, staff from MINAGRI will be appointed to prepare methods and procedures
for project selection and evaluation, train and provide technical support for
execution of project at the decentralized levels in the 9 provinces and their
departments, consisting of: (i) a project director; (ii) an assistant director
supported by a long-term consultant experienced in micro-project implementation;
(iii) an administrative and financial controller, assisted by an accountant; (iv)
a field staff upervisor; and (v) two MINAGRI training coordinators.
Administration of the project at the central level will coordinate activities
with HINASCOF and HINEPIA, and will establish a data bank to monitor micro-
project progress.  Appointment of key staff at the central level, i.e. the
project director, assistiait director, administrative and financial controller,
field staff supervisor, and two training coordinators, will be made prior to loan
effectiveness (7.2 (e)).
5.3    Approval  of  all micro-projects  and management  of  funds will  be
decentralized to the provincial level, under supervision and control of the
central DPA/HINAGRI. In each province, a commission under the chairmanship of
the Governor or his representative, and with participation of MINASCOF, HINEPIA,
MINAGRI, HINPAT (P2.an), MINFI (Finance), and NGOs shall meet to examine and
approve micro-projects documents prepared by groups. The commission will be
assisted in its deliberations by two provincial staff from MINAGRI in charge of
administering the project, under the supervision of the Provincial Delegate of
Agriculture. In addition, provincial staff will assist in the preparation of
documents, monitoring of fund disbursement as well as project execution by
groups, and supervision of the training program for departmental staff and
farmers. At the departmental level, a MINAGRI staff, to be nominated as a
ctordinator for the FIMAC component, will be the point of contact for fanwrrs
groups, NGOs,  or other  agencies  interested  ir  the FIHIC  program.   The
departmental coordinator will also assist in preparing the financing documents
to be forwarded to the provincial administration statt for FIMAC and in
monitoring project execution. Financing applications will have to be prepared
by sponsor agencies and processed through departmental coordinators.   The
performance of sponsor agencies in the preparatLon and follow-up of micro-



32
projects will determine the future access of their s?onsored groups to additional
financing. Disbursements under the FIMAC component shall be subject to Bank's
satisfaction with progress of activities and audits of accounts during the
previous year and approval of the detailed work program and budget for the
following year (para. 4.10).  Details of micro-projects preparation cycle, their
implementation and the program's administration are provided in Annex 2.
5.4    Under the preparation phase of the project, 9 provincial DPA staff have
received intensive training abroad in project management and accounting, and 5
of the 45 departmental coordinators have been appointed and trained.
5.5    The pilot program for village storage will be under the supervision of
the Provincial Delegate of Agriculture of the Extreme North Province. The FIMAC
component will finance the construction of stores which will house on average 40
tons of cereals. An agreement between the Government and WFP will be signed for
the provision of small equipment, and for the initial stock of cereals which
shall serve as working capital for the group. Extension services will provide
advice on improved storage techniques. Training will be provided to farmers'
groups on stock management by NGOs in collaboration with staff from MINAGRI.
5.6    Locust Control.   Aerial locust control activities in the North and
Extreme North will be carried out by the Aerial Pest Control Unit (APCU), under
the supervision of MINAGRI. MINAGRI will be responsible for implementing the
study of the Crop Protection Service of APCU.
5.7    Information System.  The Direction des Enqu#tes agro-ec.nomiques et de
la Planification Agricole (DEAPA) of MINAGRI will be responsible for implementing
the information system through a small coordinating unit comprised of four
existing staff (an agro-economist, a statistician, and two research assistants),
to synthesize, analyze, and publicize information related to food security. The
unit will be assisted by an early warning systems expert for two years to help
establish the system, and short term consultants for survey design and training.
A DEAPA field structure exists down to the departmental level for collecting
data. The field staff will receive reinforced training and be responsible for
analyzing data and producing a weekly radio program on pricing and marketing
information. The four DEAPA staff responsible for coordination will be appointed
prior to loan effectiveness (para. 7.2 te)).
5.8    Market Construction. Credit Foncier du Cameroon (CFC) will have overall
responsibility for the market renovation and construction component. A project
agreement, to be concluded between CFC and the Bank, will establish the
conditions, for subsidiary financing of market construction planned by
municipalities. A loan committee at CFC, including representatives from MINAT,
will appraise the technical proposals submitted by municipalities, and make
recommendations to CFC Board for approval of loans.  Agreement was obtained
during negotiations regarding the criteria (size, economic return, financing
plan) for market financing under this component.  Training programs included
under the market infrastructure component will be the responsibility of CFC in
collaboration with MINAT.
5.9    Nutrition. The nutrition component will be a collaborative effort of the
Department of Community Development of MINAGRI, MINSANTE and MESIRES. MINSANTE



33
will coordinate the component.   An NGO with experience in the health and
nutrition fields (the Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere, Inc. (Care))
will finance its technical assistance to the component. Work will be carried out
under the direction of a coordinating committee made up of representatives from
each of the ministries. The committee will meet regularly prepare action plans
for the different phases of the program, assure their execution, attend training
sessions, report to their respective ministers on the progress of program
implementation. and finally, on completion of the program, define a national
strategy and action plan. A qualified national coordinator from HINSANTE will
be nominated prior to loan effectiveness (para. 7.2 (e)). The HINSANTE national
coordinator and a CARE technical coordinator will be responsible for assuring
program execution, including the financial and physical management of the
component. As a condition of effectiveness, a contract will be executed between
MINSANTE and an NGO, satisfactory to the Bank, establishing precisely the
responsibilities of each of the coordinators in the physical planning of the
work, preparation of annual budgets, monitoring of physical implementation of the
program and budget execution (para. 7.2(b)).
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.1    The project will enhance food security principally by creating employment
opportunities and increasing the incomes and assets of the poor.  By supporting
marketing, processing and transformation activities, the project will help reduce
time spent by women in these areas, and thus enable them to spend more time on
family and child care. As the project encourages self-help initiatives which
respond to the needs of the community, the chances of successful implementation
are heightened.  Other project activities will improve food distribution and
therefere reduce the cost of food to consumers, increase incomes to producers,
and provide incentives for increasing production and consumption of locally
produced food.
Economic Rate of Return (Annex 11)
6.2    The conventional methodology applied in calculating the economic rate of
return for investment projects in agriculture cannot be used for a multi-
component project. The project can be analyzed only as a sum of its parts, not
as a single entity.  Hence, an economic rate of return to the overall food
security project has not been computed. The procedure adopted has therefore been
to estimate, wherever possible, economic rates of return for individual
components. Details of individual rates are provided below.
6.3    For the most important component of micro-projects, accounting for almost
70? percent of project expenditure, the choice of activities is left to
beneficiaries rendering it difficult to quantify benefits ex ante in any
meaningful fashion. However, a few models of micro-projects, such as a flour
mill, chicken farm, palm oil press, have been developed (see Annex 11, pages 1-3)
which show rates of return ranging from 16 to 55 percent. Benefits derive from
creation of value-added (case of flour mill), incremental output due to
mechanical extraction method rather than manually (palm oil press), and savings



34
in labor use. On this basis, it is conservatively considered that the condition
for financing of a rate of return of at least 15 percent would be met, and that
this level can be taken to represent the rate of return for the component.
6.4    Village storage would secure grain supply and increase both producers'
and consumers' surplus, as both extremely low and exceptionally high prices are
avoided. Assuming a without project situation where farmers are obliged to sell
immediately after harvest, and economic benefits consequently reflected in time
difference in net returns when grain is sold later in the season, an economic
rate of return of 16 percent is obtiined. (Annex 11, pages 3-4).
6.5     Economic rates of return have not been estimated for the early warning
system, anti-locust program, market infrastructure, and the nutrition components.
While the enhanced flow of information about production and prices should help
to reduce uncertainty and enable farmers to secure more remunerative prices, the
magnitude of the impact on production cannot be assessed.   In the case of
markets, although costs could be estimated in economic terms, benefits are
exceptionally difficult to quantify. These may include reduced health rLsks due
to more sanitary trading conditions, reduction in losses and, eventually, a
production response due to greater opportunities for marketing produce. It is
unclear how much the aerial treatment under the anti-locust component would
prevent production losses, making it difficult to calculate the ERR.
Risks
6.6    Major risks associated with the project lie in the scope for diversion
of funds under the micro-projects component away from target groups and
activities and lack of compliance with reconstitution obligations for FIMAC
funds. The first risk is reduced by the decentralization process for approving
investments, by following strict criteria for group selection, and by rigorous
project analysis to ensure investment viability.   The second risk shall be
alleviated by implicating sponsor agencies (NG00, local area development
companies) of beneficiary groups in close field supervision of the investments,
group pressure for fund reconstitution, incentives for repayment (the funds stay
with sponsor of several groups in similar zones), and sanctions in case of non-
reconstitution of funds.   Approval of applications for more financing by the
same sponsor shall be based on the sponsor's satisfactory performance.
Disbursement condition under the FIMAC component will be based on satisfactory
progress on recovery of funds, including interest charges, in the departments.
Environmental Impact
6.7     The overall environmental impact of the project is expected to be
neutral. Components such as the early warning and market information system,
market infrastructure and village storage will not affect the natural
environment. As selection of micro-projects is essentially demand-driven, there
is a risk that groups might request financing for projects likely to have a
negative environmental influence (for example: chain saws for land clearance are
popular).  To reduce this risk, environmental evaluation criteria are being
developed under the first phase of the FIMAC program (para. 2.30) whlch will be
applied in the evaluation of future micro-projects.  Similarly, non-chemical



35
methods of grain storage will be promoted, such as the use of oils and/or
hermetic sealing to preserve grains. An environmental source book will be made
available to extension staff to assis1: in training farmers.
6.8    The component which can potentially have a negative environmental impact
is the locust control program. Although the proposed project does not finance
pesticides, their use by APCV under the locust-control program poses a potential
environmental hazard. To mitigate the potential for health and/or environmental
damage the following safeguards would be included: (i) only those pesticides
approved by FAO would be used; (ii) application of Bank guidelines for safe use
of pesticides would be followed; and (iii) the ongoing PAO training program in
safe handling, which in the past has coincided with the anti-locust campaign,
will continue.   It was agroed during negotiations that the Government will
enforce the application of Bank guidelines for pesticide procurement, application
and handling (para. 7.1(d)). Extension staff shall notify rural populations when
aerial spraying is to occur, and advise them on avoidance measures.  With
reference to safe handling of donor-financed pesticides, the sta'f of APCU and
the Plant Protection Service of MINAGRI have already received training in
handling of pesticides by international experts recruited by FAO and have
experience in locust control campaigns.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1    During negotiations, the following agreements wero obtained from the
Governmentt
a) agreed annual work plans andi budgets (para. 4.10);
b) final operating procedures for FIMAC (para. 2.30);
c) criteria for market rehabilitation and construction (para. 5.8);
d) adoption of Bank guidelines to the safe use of pesticides (para. 6.8).
7.2    Prior to effectiveness the following actions will be taken:
a) removal of prior authorization on exports of animals, animal products,
and fishery products, and simplification and decentralization of
registration requirements for exporters of food products with MINDIC
(para. 2.11);
b) execution of a work agreemeiat, satisfactory to the Bank, between MINSANTE
and the NGO selected to assist in project implementation (pars. 5.9);
c)  a subsidiary loan agree>mnt between the Government and CrC will be
executed (para. 4.4);
d) a grant agreement between the Government and APCU would be executed
(pars. 4.6);
e) four qualified DEAPA staff will be appointed to the coordinating unit of
the Early Warning and Market Information System (para. 5. 7); a qualifLed



36
national coordinator from MINSANTE will be appointed (para. 5.9): key
administrative staff for FIIAC at the central level, i.e. the project
director, assistant director, administratur and financial controller,
supervisor of field staff, and two training coordinators will be
appointed (para. 5.2).
7.3     Disbursements under the FIMAC component after October 1 of each year
shall be subject to Bank's satisfaction with progress of activities and audits
of accounts during the previous year and approval of the detailed work program
and budget for the following year (para. 4.10).
7.4     Recommendation.  With the above assurances and conditions, the project
would be suitable for a Bank Loan of   ;23.0 million equivalent.



Page 1 of S
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                         Peace-Work-Nation
NATIONAL FOOD SECURITY STRATEGY
I .INTRODUCTION
The Government of Cameroon defines food security as the access of
its population at all times to adequate food to lead a healthy and active
life. The Government's priority is to attain the country's food security.
the main elements of which are the availability of and accessibility to food.
Cameroon has achieved a high degree of food self-sufficiency due to
sustained growth in food production and increases in the country's living
standards. Despite food self-sufficiency at the national level, elements of
the population suffer from transitory or chronic food insecurity.  These
deficiencies occur mainly in rural areas, and in the northern provinces of
the country where drought and locust attacks are recurring phenomena. Food
insecurity is also found among vulnerable groups in urban areas.
With 632 of its population in the rural sector (1986), Cameroon has
always given priority to the modernization and development of its
agricultural sector, including the food sector.  The country's satisfactory
level of food self-sufficiency has been helped by its overall low population
density, fertile and diverse land resources, a traditional yet quasi liberal
marketing system.  The overall positive results have disguised structural
weaknesses in the sector.
-Over the past decade, Cameroon's population growth rate has
exceeded 32 p.a. while urban growth rate of 52 p.a.   Future food self-
sufficiency will require significant increases in agricultural productivity
to keep up with the high population growth and the decline in rural
population. There have been only limited technological advances in food crop
production in recent years, and the use of modern inputs remains limited.
Although marketing of food crops is free of government intervention,
distribution costs are high due to underdeveloped storage, marketing, and
transport infrastructure.
-Another problem is the existence of food insecure regions and
populations in parts of the country. In 1990, fin4ings and recommendations
of a project to set-up an 'Evaluation and Monitoring System of Cameroon's
Food and Nutritional Status' highlighted continued nutrition problems among
sections of the population, especially among mothers and young children.
In the Northern Sahelian regions of the country, pre-harvest seasons are
marked by food shortages and transitory food insecurity while recurrent
droughts every four years cause chronic insecurity. Studies have shown that
in certain rural areas, such as the Western Province, populations are at risk
from chronic malnutrition as a result of land scarcity and high population
densities, whereas poor eating habits, lack of nutritional education and
access to health and childcare centers in the forest areas of the East and



Page 2 of 5
the South, causes malnutrition despite an adequate energy intake.   Food
insecurity ls found in urban areas among low income groups who lack the means
to purchase foodstuffs.
Over the last decade, food security has been an important objective
of the Cameroon Government.   The five year Plan of 1981-86 advocated an
increase in agricultural production with the objective of elimination of food
imports. Important programs were undertaken to increase production. With
the creation of MIDEVIV and Office Cerdalier, the Government created the
means to control the marketing and distribution of food products. Under the
1986-1591 Five Year Plan, the Government was to deepen its efforts by
undertaking long term planning for food sub-sector.
A Long Term Food Plan (PALT) was developed in 1981 and updated in
1985-86. The PALT highlighted the fact that although Cameroon enjoyed a high
degree of food self-sufficiency with 96Z of the country's needs being covered
from internal production, the country was, nevertheless, in a precarious food
supply situation. This situation led to the creation of a Food and Nutrition
Planning Unit within the Ministry of Plan.
The Structural Adjustment Program adopted in recent years has had,
and will continue to have some negative impact on the country's food
security.   Reduction in producer prices of major export crops,  such as
coffee. cocoa and cotton will diminish the purchasing power of farmers and
their ability to acquire food. The SAL will also have a negative impact on
employment in urban areas with negative repercussions on vulnerable groups
and their food security status.  The Government is determined to address
these risks and has therefore defined a comprehensive food security strategy.
II.Government's Food Security Strate&v
The Government has a three-pronged approach to Food Security in the
following areass (1) measures to increase supply, including improvements in
the marketing and distribution infrastructure as well as processing and
transformation facilities; (2) measures to increase demand and enhance the
purchasing power of lower income groups through investments in productive and
employment generating actlvities, as well as nutrition programs targeted at
high risk groups; and (3) strengthening of the planning and coordination
capacities of ministries through better information collection and
dissemination.
2.1 Incentives to Increase SuDDly
Agricultural Intensificationt The Government's policy is to modernize
foodcrop production through investments in research, extension and training
of rural populations.   The objective is to improve the yields of yam,
sorghum, millet, cocoyams, plantains and various legumes and fruit trees.
The Government has created a national extension and agricultural training
service, reinforcing the field services in extension. The training component
will emphasize, aong others, programs which target female farmers and
respond to their needs in now technologies designed to reduce their workload,



Page 3 of 5
including household workload, and to disseminate improved food transformation
and processing equipment.  Government's role in production will be one of
gradual divestiture from production activities and encouraging of private
sector operations in this domain. The policy also supports the reform in the
fertilizer and pesticide sub-sectors.
Marketing and Distribution of Food Products: The Government is intent on
ending its interventions in the distribution and trade of food products. The
Government is no longer fixing consumer prices and has eliminated QRs on
expurts of food crops, including livestock and fisheries products.  Legal
measures have been taken to ease food transportation and road circulation of
traders (reduction in official road blocks, abolishment of purchasing permits
required by the Ministry of Commerce for local foodstuffs, removal of
collection permits issued by prefectoral authorities for food crop exports).
The Government is thus promoting a Dolicy environment conducive to
private sector operations (private agents, farmers' groups, NGOs) in the
distribution, marketing, transport, storage conservation, transformation of
food products. In its effort to further pursue trade liberalization measures
initiated under the SAL, the Government intends to streamline remaining
regulations affecting the food sector by eliminating prior authorizations for
exports of livestock and fishery products, and decentralizing registration of
traders at the prefectoral level.  Procedures to obtain transport permits
have also been simplified to increase volume of transportation.
The Government intends to improve all aspects of rural infrastructure
needed to ease product marketing: rural markets, rural transportation, feeder
roads, training of farmers in appropriate technology to handle, package and
store crops, as well as financing of micro-enterprises in the food sector.
Given women's unique role in the production and marketing of food crops, the
Government has designed programs to specifically address their needs, such as
directing credit and rural financing facilities to women's groups.
In light of reduced government subsidies, construction of market
infrastructure will be entrusted increasingly to municipalities, whose own
financial resources need to be complemented by financing from conmercial
sources,  such  as  commercial  bank  loans.    In  order  to  increase  the
construction and maintenance of market infrastructure, particularly in
secondary cities, and facilitate access to bank financing, the Government has
introduced revisions in the existing budgetary and administrative procedures
of municipalities, to allow the municipalities to provide adequate guaranties
to lending institutions.
The impact of new feeder roads in promoting the food security of the
country is undeniable and is the object of a new project under preparation.
Technologies to conservG and store harvests, including those aimed at
reducing post harvest losses, are fairly well known in Cameroon. Government
intends to continue research programs in this field and promote the
dissemination of improved technologies under the National Extension and
National Research Projects.



Page 4 of S
The Government attaches special importance to stabilizing the supply of
food crops. Efforts, which are underway to enhance information available on
prices  and markets,  will encourage  the  flow of goods and lead to an
equilibrium between food deficit and food surplus regions.  In addition, it
has been decided to involve farmers in storage facilities  in order to
stabilize their supplies.  A pilot storage scheme, designed to reduce post-
harvest loss, is underway in the Northwest and Western provinces. Another
will be tested in the Extreme North and eventually extended to other regions.
These efforts are further proof of Government's intention to withdraw in
favor of the private sector and, in this case, of village groups.
The Government advocates regulating food imports through tariff
protection to compensate for the dumping and subsidy policy of exporting
countries rice, edible oil, and meat. The policy is meant to protect local
producers and provide incentives to encourage them to remain in the business.
An equalization fund has been created to use revenues from import tariffs to
subsidize local producers. This fund has not yet met its objectives and a
revision of its operation is in demand.
2.2 Actions on the Demand side
Actions to increase the demand for food are related to creation of
employment, increase in the purchasing power of rural and urban population,
and improvement of nutrition status of vulnerable groups. The following are
actions designed to achieve the above-stated goalt
Micro-Investments to increase rural incomes: Measures to increase
the  purchasing  power  of  the  population  is  another  key  component  of
Government's  strategy  of eliminating transitory  food insecurity.    The
Government has decided to finance micro-investments of community groups in
rural areas (FIMAC).   This fund will finance small scale rural projects
identified and managed by rural communities which have an employment and
income objective. In a similar fashion, the Community Development Program
(PRODEC) of the SDA project will be financing communal micro-projects in
urban areas to help lower income groups finance social infrastructures and
generate additional revenues.
National Employment Fund, envisaged under the SDA project, aims at
assisting the reinsertion of unemployed workers in the economy.
, Nutritional Education, under the Food Security project, aims at
improving the nutritional status of high risk groups (children under 5,
pregnant and lactating women) and develop a national nutrition education
strategy.
Government's strategy on nutrition is integral to its health sector
strategy.   This strategy emphasizes Primary Health Care relative to the
costly curative treatments provided by hospitals. This strategy is partly
supported by the Social Dimensions of Adjustment project, prepared with the
collaboration of the Bank.   Under this project, the primary health care
centers are to be equipped and restocked, and their recurrent costs,



Page 5 of 5
resulting from their resumed operations, will be equally financed.  These
centers will, among others, monitor infant and pre-school children's growth
in order to trace malnourished cases as well as organize culinary
demonstrations on nutritious meals enriched with locally produced crops.
The Government is aware of the importance of the private sector,
including NGOs, in the health sector.  These organizations are often well
structured and managed and are an efficient means of intervention in the
field.   It is recognized that financial support to these entities  for
specific programs in health and nutrition at the grassroots level, in
cooperation with health centers, is another way of overcoming the
inadequacies detected in this sector.
2.3 Planning. Information and Coordination Measures
Information Systems for planninas The Government is aware of the
need to systematically collect and analyze data on foodcrops, nutrition, and
food security for effective planning of the sector.  A good database on
foodcrop production by region already exists, but little is available on
marketing and consumption.   The Government  is undertaking a permanent
household consumption survey, to have a precise knowledge on the dietary and
spending habits of all sectors of the population, and to monitor changes over
time.
Information on Marketing of Food Crops: In order to improve the
marketing of food crops, it is necessary to provide regular and periodic
information on prices and the state of markets, consumers, transporters and
local groups.   Under this program, information on producer and consumer
prices, sales volume in markets, rainfall, availability of inputs, state of
roads in rural areas will be transmitted regularly and in a timely manner
through the mass media.
Early Warnin_ System:  The government has decided to develop an
early warning system, providing timely information to public policy makers
regarding the state of food and nutrition of populations at risk, as well as
forecasts on available food crops. As a by-product of the above information
gathering system, and using the existing information (weather, food stocks)
an early warning system will be set up in order to alert the Government on
time about negative circumstances at hand and helping to prompt appropriate
measures.
, The National Committee in Charge of Food and Nutrition (CONAN):
The Government recognizes the multiplicity of causes behind malnutrition and
food insecurity and the need for a multidisciplinary approach to tackle them.
The Government has therefore decided to have a multisectoral working group,
composed of technical ministries, and public agencies concerned with Food
Security.   An inter-ministerial committee, CONAN, is envisaged for this
purpose. CONAN will have a consultative role and is in charge of assisting
the Government in formulating its policy in food and nutrition and
identifying means to carry it out.  The objective of CONAN is to enhance
coordination between various partners implicated in this sector and to help
put in place a multisectoral strategy.



Page 1 of 20
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
RURAL COMMUNITY MICRO-PROJECTS
(Financement d'Investissesment de micro-rialisations agricoles et
communautaires - FIMAC)
X.   Background
A large number of informal rural groups, especially women farmers groups,
operate in the agricultural sector, make a substantial contribution to the food
security of the country.1 The majority of these groups is deprived of financial
support needed to enhance productivity, reduce post-harvest losses, and in
general increase agricultural production. Based on the preparation study, it was
found that significant demand exists for small tools and equipment in the sector.
Lack of experience in managing finances is pervasive among rural groups. Women's
groups are particularly weak in the physical and financial management of small
inveatments.
Formal financial intermediaries have been unable to provide micro-cred4ts
in rural areas in a cost-effective way. An example in the North-West province
shows that the cost of recovery is 2802 the amount of credit, despite the area's
favorable factors such as high population density, strong community spirit, and
effective extension system. The financial sector is undergoing deep reforms.
The former rural financial institution, FONADER, has been liquidated. A new
institution "Credit Agricole du Cameroun" (CAC) recently opened its first branch
in Yaound6, with four provincial branches planned in 1991, and the rest of the
country to be covered a year later.   CAC's branches will be based in the
provincial capitals, with a minimum of staff. Credit will be provided against
financial guaranties, and groups dispersed in rural areas are not expected to be
the beneficiaries of CAC credit, given the high cost of administration and
recovery.
To ensure the full participation of rural groups in attaining the food
security objective, a transitional program of technical and financial assistance
is designed to improve group capacity in appraising and implementing micro-
investments, and reconstituting the financial capital invested under the project.
During the transitional program, groups will be trained and made financially
responsible to be able to access formal financial institutions in a later stage.
NGOs have succeeded in Cameroon to organize responsible informal groups in rural
areas.
1*Les Groupes Agricoles au Cameroon". Etude preliminaire a la mise en place
d'un Fonds d'Investissement pour des Micro-Realisations Agricoles et
Communautaires, Direction des Etudes et Projets, Ministire de l'Agriculture, Mai
1989.



II.   lbjectiv_
FIMAC will comprise two kinds of financings
A.    Financial assistance to self-help micro-projects of marginal groups
to increase their food security status.
This includes group investments in small equipment and infrastructure which
contribute principally to communities'  foot self-sufficinc_y.   A parallel
objective of this component is to improve the financial and technical manaaement
capaciCV ' _rural aroups. This will be done through ($) significant financial
and labL - contribution from beneficiary groups, much more than what is presently
required under similar projects in Cameroon, (ii) training sessions for groups
in project management provided by the project staff, professional training
institutes, and NGOs, (iii) obligation to reconstitute the financial capital in
an account managed externally to the group structure (see sub. para. d on
reconstitution procedures), with the risk of repossession in the case of non-
compliance.
B.    Pilot Program of Decentralized Micro-Credits for comercial group
projects.
This includes provision of credit for commercial micro-projects with the
purpose of increasing communities' monetary revenues. This program will be done
on an experimental basis only in areas where NGOs already intervening in credit
delivery operations are willing to participate. Training on credit management
will be provided to beneficiary groups, directly through the project staff or
indirectly through the NGOs.
III. Description.
The FIMAC component will finance investments made by marginal groups
intended to improve primarily communities' food self-sufficiency and cash income.
Significant cash and labor contribution is required on the part of groups. An
agreement will be made with the beneficiary group, indicating the group's
obligations, as well as the financing and procurement procedures of goods and
services required for the micro-project in question. The agreement will include
a repossession clause, as well as a rejection clause for future financing (sample
agreement attached).
FIMAC will also finance tL..iining sessions for group leaders, the project's
field staff, as well as staff of NGOs who sponsor the groups.
A.    Investments.
1.    Selection of Groups.
a.    Identification of Marginal Groups
Financing will be only made available to marginal groups.  Groups will have to
fill out a questionnaire on the status of their village and their members before



Page 3 of 20
submitting an application for financial assistance. A copy of the questionnaire
is attached to the annex.
b.    Location of Groups
Financing will not be made available to groups located in or close to urban
areas, as well as the North West Province, given the presence of similar
programs.  Only marginal areas, satisfying specific criteria included in the
above questionnaire, will be eligible for financing.
c.    Size of Groups
Group size should not exceed 20 members. In the case of infrastructure projects,
benefitting an entire village, a larger group, such as the existing Development
village committees, is also eligible for financing.
d.    Etatus of Groups
Groups should be recognized by traditional and administrative authorities. Only
groups sponsored and supervised by intermediary agencies, such as NG0s or local
development companies, are eligible.
e.    Groups' Capacity
(1)   Past Experience of sroups: Beneficiaries should
provide proof of having had at least one year ef group production.  Available
financing will not exceed three times the turnover of the preceding year.
Groups' past experience should be rated as successful by the sponsor, with the
exception for proven cases of failure due to factors beyond control.
(2)   Group Contribution: Groups should demonstrate their
capacity by providing significant initial contribution.   Group contribution
represent the access cost to FIMAC funding. Contributions incl.ude:
* Contribution in kind at least equal to 302 of th-^ total project
cost.
* Contribution in cash varies according to the type of investment:
_     cash provision equal to 252 of the amount made available
Al            under FIMAC for small tools and equipment for commercial
and non-commercial projects.
-     cash provision equal to 20? of the amount provided under
FIMAC for infrastructure projects.
Cash contributions will be used fort
*   102 will finance investments,  based on suppliers'  invoices
already approved by the provincial commission (see para. D (2) on
Organization and Management at the Provincial Level).



Page 4 of 20
102, in the case of small equipment, and S in the case of
infrastructure projects, will be used for capital reconstitution.
This sum will be deposited in an account, according to procedures
described in para. d (1) (a) on reconstitution procedEures.
52 will be used towards the working capital to operate and
maintain investments under the project.
2. FIMAC Financing Terms
The maximum available financing under FIMAC will be CFA?
4,000,0000 (USS 16,000 equivalent) per commercial project 2, and
CFAF 500,000 (US$1,900 equivalent) per non-comercial project, with
repayment period le-s than 4 years in both cases.   Financing of
commercial projects will be charged an interest rate not less than
15Z p.a.
The maximum FIMAC funding will be CFAF 6,000,000 (USS 23,000
equivalent) per infrastructure project, with repayment period of not
more than 10 years.
3.    Type of Proiects
a.    Investments
FIHAC will only finance investments msant to improve communities' food self-
sufficiency and on a pilot basis, monetary income under the micro-credit schemet
-     small  farm tools  and equipment,  with  an average  FIHAC
financing amount of CFAF 300,000 (USS 1,100 equivalent), and not to
exceed CFAF 500,000 (USS 1,900 equivalent). These includes small
equipment for community fields, processing equipment for food and
livestock products, tools and equipment for livestock pzoduction,
fisheries, and beekeeping.  Similarly, small tools and equipment
will be financed through credits, for an average size of CPAF
2,000,000 (US$7,700 equivalent) and not to exceed CPWA 4,000,000
(US$16,000 equivalent).
* - small-scale infrastructure projects with an average FDMC
financing amount of CFAF 5,000,000, (US$19,000 equivalent) not to
exceed CPA? 6,000,000 (USS 23,000 equivalent).   These include:
construction of village storage, small slaughter-houses, vaccinatinn
stations, rural tracks, fish ponds, livestock watering points, small
digs and irrigation networks, drainage of low-land areas.
2Com.mercial projects are cash generating ectivities and non-commercial
projects are food self-sufficiency enhancing activities.



Page 5 of 20
b.    Profitability Criteria
Departmental coordinators will appraise projects and their profitability,
based on standard indicators for each type of investment established by staff at
central and provincial levels. The analysis will indicate the extent to which
benefits of the project accrue to beneficiaries' self-consumption. Projects will
have to have a minimum 152 financial or economic rate of return, inzluding the
cost of capital reconstitution.
c.    Activities not to be financed.
FIMAC will not finance activities already financed by other projects.
Social infrastructure projects are equally excluded- These include, chemical
inputs, health centers, electrification projects, schools, roads, water pipes.
d.    Disbursement of Funds and Procurement of Goods
(1)   From the central level (Yaounde) to provinces
A special account for MINAGRI will be opened in a commercial bank in
Yaound&, and project accounts in provincial branches of the same comercial bank
or of its correspondent banks in the nine provinces involved. Signatories for
provincial project accounts will be the provincial financial controller of the
Hinistry of Finance and the agricultural delegate, in his capacity as the
secretary of the provincial FIMAC commission (para. D.2).  Withdrawals from
provincial project accounts will be made after Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
(CMA) authorizes transfer of funds from the special account to such accounts,
upon receipt of approved statement of expenditures from provincial delegates
through FIHAC administration in Yaounde (para. A.2.d.(2) below). Statement of
expenditures will be supported by documented evidence, including pro-forma
invoices from the selected supplier (para. A.2.d.(2) below).
(2)   From provinces to groups
FIMAC will be essentially financing tools and equipment for micro-projects,
as well as part of the training and supervision cost of groups by sponsors4 In
practice, this will permit most disbursements directly to suppliers, against pro-
forma invoices.   Three Pro-forma invoices  for goods from three different
suppliers will be attached to the project application form submitted by the
groups to provincial commissions.  The provincial project administrator (DPA
staff) will justify a recommended supplier to the provincial commission, based
on Bank procurement guidelines for prudent shopping.   The project application
will also contain the sponsor's bill for supervision and 502 of the trainina
cost. Upon approval, statement of expenditures with documented evidence will be
prepared and signed by the provincial delegates of HINAGRI and HINFI and sent to
CAA for funds through DPA.  The provincial project administrator will order
payments, signed by the agricultural delegate, to supplier(s) and the sponsoring
NCO, the latter as an advance for the training that will be provided, after
notification on fund transfers by provincial bank.  Payments will be made in
person by the provincial project administrator to suppliers in the department,
accompanied by a representative of the group and the sponsor. Upon receipt of



Page 6 of 20
equipment, the departmental coordinator will sign an agreement with the group,
stating group obligations in using the received material. Full payment for the
training and supervision of sponsors will be made after completion of the
training session by the sponsor, and upon receipt by the provincial commission
of invoices, certified by the departmental coordinator.
e.    Reconstitution/Repayment Proceduires.
Based on existing experience in Cameroon, it is envisaged to have the
reconstituted capital (or repaid capital with interest in the case of credits)
rotate among groups, through a local organization external to the project, with
enforcement power over groups. The local organization may be an association of
groups, a working village development committee, an NGO, or a development agency
sufficiently broad-based to cover several groups at a time.   Departmental
coordinators and provincial project administrators are to verify and confirm
before-hand the capacity of the local organization (e.g. NGO) to enforce and
follow-up groups' reconstitution obligations. The identified organization will
be a party to the agreement signed by the group. The agreement will include the
obligations of the local organization to enforce the reimbursement schedule under
the capital reconstitution clause, and to rotate the reconstituted capital among
different groups (attached sample agreement).
(1)   Procedures include:
(a) Opening of a savi.tgs account by the local
organization in which the reconstituted funds will be deposited. The account
will be operated on the basis of two signatures by the departmental coordinator
of the FIMAC and the representative of the local organization.
(b) Use of reconstituted capital: Funds cannot be
used unless fully reconstituted. In the case of non-reconstitutiot, equipment
financed by the FIMAC will be repossessed.   In the case of an incomplete
reconstitution, or 6;ssolution of the local organization in charge of enforcing
the reconstitution clause, provincial commissions of the project are solely
authorized to decide on the use of funds already recovered, and equipment
repossessed.
(c) In the case of a complete recovery, the local
organization can propose the allocation of funds to another project, for the same
group or another group, after approval of the new project is obtained from the
departmental coordinator, who will allow the release of funds. Obligation to
capital reconstitution, as well as other obligations of the group are maintained,
as per the agreement.   In the case of no new investment proposals for the
reconstituted funds, or rejection of investment poposals by the departmental
cnordinators, provincial commlssions may recuperate the funds for reallocation
to other areas.
(d) Control over the reconstituted capitals The
departmental coordinator will follow the capital re constitution accounts in his
department and will submit regular status reports to the provincial commission.



ANNEX 2
Pag  7 of 2         *
FTllAC SCW
Chart ons
rlow of Funds: Disbursements                             Administration
(First Cycle)
Central Level       Special Account
(Yaound*)         In Bak A
C&iLes Autaone           
dAfortiLs6s*nt                 gO
pareuleial Level    co  te Account LD protmenlCo
Foko of da?nk A
aA.a&au.ainnaa (Second c                   cse)ru~
Depacrtmental Level  SppnoCs SaDeprnmntgL
Training eby spenerJ             lCoe tLnstor
receiptff from* spnsrone  opltin of trinngveifedb  te  eprtena
co...t..     ri.n.. d..a..........in   p in ........................n t m I   Cista
,.......................................................................
|b
iep,sotenol Level epongee  ivngs
A-eount lf Local
S aklPoot Officec
Suppl ira           1           D,partM   atl
fdi s alatng by Speonss       s Coordin tor
jloum  cycle__
videntcel (eot oppllrotloa. Invluding prifid .ad Laprov ted b differe ant
supp3llre for cia dmelt   pn t     notic  fo tLweLe    l cal bant  on transf of
trcalnse onr ersolspie prs ldad pa smet noser wLto bsponso ti be pbed aLcedb
rVAeLpt ared Kpense  once egete  ets o .f trst    v tofl t by the deparo etrl
eecodalntor. Sc L&lag *and s*pcrrlsl * pe f*pFlieatLesnoat to  ezeed CIA
16o,0.eoot* wS0 oe quLv caet.
ilew *1f @g
-    Approval   feinture of  wLteprmena Ico oribnsorn ta CsA po n pplicat c for
funo wrtudscasec wnth rbstieo   t pf oecp_tssi srup'srted ab u emeu t4e
wLdencee (copy of pco-form  Laveces) verItLcd and apprervd by ZWI a=U      nd
KINFl preflaeiel dclegatrc. Upon notlee Ices the local bank on tcancfac of
funds mde Ir o the central CAA acceewt to pr v heilt poJect account.
purcehaseorders to *upplSeco and por eat *rdec t o sp ascec WILL be Issued by
NttACK2 end h"": delegates
21 Appeevcl o 4natucro*t Dcpactmn u l eecodinator and sponsor.
*t Cceupl cas e^b onttcbutlon to projects bl eoup | reimbursements.



Page 8 of 20
8.    Training and Supervision
Training will focus on preparation and implementation of micro-projects,
and will also include specialized technical training on production and processing
activities financed by the FIMAC.   Training will include regular sessions
workshops, as well as short organized visits to technical centers. Training will
be carried out by specialized training institutes, NGOs, and the field staff of
technical ministries (MINAGRI, 4INASCOF, MESIRES) depending on demand. Financing
requests for training will be prepared and submitted by sponsors, who will be
informed out of a menu of training options made available to them by the
departmental coordinator. Financing requests will be accompanied with statement
of projected expenses and documented evidence of expenditures, in accordance with
FIMAC procedures.  Requests will be examined and approved by the provincial
commission. A maximum training allowance of CFAF 80,000 per micro-project has
been included in the project costs. Groups will contribute to the costs of the
training up to 50Z of the total cost. As an indication, on average, CFAF 4,000
per trainee will be paid by groups in regular sessions of a one-week period
(average group size 10 to 15 members).  The project will also finance the
supervision cost for groups, which shall not exceed CFAF 80,000 per micro-
project.
C.    Organization and Management
1.    At the Natictnal Level% The Ministry of Agriculture, through ita
A3gricultural Project' Division (Division des Projets Agricoles-DPA) will be the
executing agency of FIMAC component. At the national level, the administration
of FIMAC will involve:
Direction and Institutional support: ensuring the coordination of the
component among ministries and NGOs, directing the activities of staff at
the national, provincial and departmental levels, and supporting the
organization and operation of provincial commissions.
Management:   managing project staff at all levels, controlling their
operating expenses, making funds available to provincial project
administiators, and controlling financing made available to groups. Staff
at the national level will make ex-post controls on capital reconstitution
and repayment obligations of groups. Information gathered on beneficiary
groups, including financial assistance provided to groups. will be
centralized in a computerized data bank for purposes of continuous
monitoring.
Supervision  of  vrovincial  project  administrators  (analysts)  and
departmental coordinators: supervising of field staff in their activities
of finalizing project documents -submitted by groups and- evaluation of
applications, and follow-up of project execution and capital recovery.
Information. Sensitization, and Trainin.s organizing on a regular basis
information and training sessions for field staff as well as staff of NGOs
in charge of supervising groups; examining existing training sessions for
groups and making recommendations to provincial commissions on the most



Page 9 of 20
appropriate training programs; supervising work of provincial units' traLners.
Project administration at the national level will comprise:
1 Project Director-the Head of the DPA
1 assistant Director: an agro-economist from the DPA, supported
by 1 long-term consultant on micro-projects.
1 administrator and financial controllers a long term consultant
in charge of administrative and financial management, supported by
1 accountant from HIMAGRI or from outside the ministry.
1 manager in charge of supervising the provincial project
administrators (analysts) and the departmental coordinators: staff
from DPA
2 managers in charge of supervising and organizing the training
component: staff from MINAGRI
2 secretaries and 3 drivers: staff from MINAGRI
2.    At the Provincial Level.
Decisions on Financing of proiects: A provincial commission, chaired by
the Governor or his representative, and comprised of provincial delegates
from MINAGRI, Ministry of Women's Affairs, Ministry of Livestock, Ministry
of Plan, Ministry of Finance, representatives of NGOs and financial
intermediaries active in the province.   The secretarial tasks of the
commission will be assumed by the delegate from the Ministry of
Agriculture,  assisted  by  the  field  project  administrators.    The
comission's role will be   to evaluate and approve applications for
financing of micro-projects and training sessions. In the event approval
is granted on applications which do not conform to FIM&C guidelines,
administrators at the central level may cancel such decisions.
SuDport to sponsorjng asencios and trainers: at the provincial level, and
under the authority of the provincial delegate of Agriculture, the
administration of the project will comprise:
1 project administrator (analyst) in charge of:
-     managing provincial level administration tasks for FIMAC;
-     controlling operating expenses at the provincial level and those of
the departmental coordinators,  under the close supervision of
national level staff;
-     supervising the departmental coordinators, especially  in their
project preparation tasks;
-     making financing available to projects approved by the provincial
commission and providing the financial control over disbursed funds;



-     following-up on the performance of groups which have been financed,
including their reconstitution and repayment obligations.   This
information will be regularly communicated to national level
administration.
and 1 trainer from MINAGRI in charge of:
-     providing regular information programs for field staff and staff
from NGOs in charge of supervising groups;
-     making  detailed  evaluation  of  training  sessions  and  making
recomendations to provincial commissions on the appropriate
training programs.
3.    At the Departmental Level: A departmental coordinator will be
appointed on a full time basis from among the local staff of MIKAGRI. The
coordinator will be working under the authority of the Departmental Delegate of
MIIIARI, and the supervision control of the provincial and national
administration staff.  Departmental coordinators will assist the sponsoring
agencies in preparing applications. They will follow-up on fund disbursements,
capital reconstitution and repayment schedules, and group performance. They will
co-sign on transactions to be made out of the reconstitution account, and may
authorize sponsors to re-use reconstituted funds according to FIMKC guidelines.
D.    Implementation.
The program will finance on a gradual basis micro-projects in 4
provinces during the first year of the project, and in the 9 provinces as of the
second year of the project. The overall financing available for this component
will be distributed as followst
-       t55  of funds will be allocated to small equipment and tools for
micro-projects -not to exceed a maximum amount of funding of CFAP
500,000 per project, designed to increase groups' food self-
sufficiency-  and  micro-credits  for  commercial  cash-generating
activities -not to exceed maximum loan amount of CPAF 4,000,000.
-     302 of funds will be allocated to infrastructure projects, not to
exceed a maximum FIMAC funding of CFAP 6,000,000 per project.
-     152 of funds will be allocated to training expenses of beneficiary
groups.
FIMAC funds will be dLstributed among provinces according to the size of
their agricultural population. The following table shows the number of projects
in all categories over tho 5 years life time of the project.



Page 11 of 20
NUMBER of PROJECTS
PYl     PY2      PY3     PY4      PY5   TOTAL
Small tools and
Equipment                     99     244      330     493      605   1771
Infrastructure
Projects                       8      18       20      25       25     96
Total                       107      262      350     518      630   1867
Al



Page 12 of 20
Zadleatere on Standrd of Living of Areoa and Communitie
Base Criteria         points (out of 20)            X Coofflcionts a
.............................................................
A. Area Sltuation:
A.1 Dostance from a small town (more than 66ff inhabitants):           1
- loss then 6 Kms: ................................... 20
- betwoen C and 10 km.: .............................. 16
- between 10 and 20 kms: .       ............................ 10
- betwoen 26 and 30 kmos:        ............... 6
- more than 30 kme:       ...................... 0
A.2 Distance froe a large town (more then 20,000 inhabitants) with publi  * ervieo (schools, helth
services, mrkot ceonters):                                             1
- less than 20 km:           .     .      ............... 20
- between 20 and 40 kme: .       ....................    16
- betwoen 40 and 60 kos:         ..0........... t
- betwven 6O  and O0 kes:      .       .................. 6
- more than 80 ks: ......................  0
A.3 Access to closost small town:                                      1
- paved road: ........................................ 20
- decent road, possable all yoer round: .............. 16
- road passable in dry season: ....................... 10
- road with difficult passage even in dry season:.....S
- no driveway: ........................................ 0
A.4 Water Supply in villag:                                            1
- water obtaind from water fountains: .............................. 20
- water obtainod from wells (boreholoo): ............................ 16
- water obtained from springs, with sufficient flow *al year round:.10
- water obtained from springs, with Insufficient flow: ............... C
- poor water supply:.................................................
A.5 Electricity and Telephone Avalanbility In village:                 1
- Avallablo electric and telophone  lnoo: ............ 20
- Available electric or telephone lines: ............. 16
- Available eloectricity from private generators: ..... 10
- no electricity, availablo telephone lines at 10 km*:S
- no electricity and no telephone lines at 10 kmo:....0
A.8 Housing:                                                           1
- 50X (or more) of housoo In concrete and iron sheet roof: .         ..............  ....... 20
- 5OX (or more) of houos  with different construction materials and Iron sheet roof:.1C
- 30 to 40X of houses with different construction material* and iron sheet roof: ..... 10
- 10 to 20X of houses with different construction materials and Iron shoet root: ......C
- 90 to 1OOX of houses with precarious materials and no Iron shoot roof:          .       . 0
A.7 Schools and Health Centers:                                        I
- primary schooling and hoalth center (with nurse): ...............................4111
- primary schooling and hosith enter without nurse: .................................1 i
(Incomplete primary schooling and hesith center with nurse)
- incomploto schooling and health ceonter with no nurse: .............................. 10
- incomplet  schooling and no hoeith center: .......................................... a
- no schooling and no health ceonter:                       ..... ..01111
A.S Number of Cars:                                                    1
- more than 10 ears (or pick-ups) per 100t Inhab.:...20
- betven S and 10 cors per 1f inhab.: ............. 16
- between 0 and C cars per 1000 inhab.: .............. 10
- no cars In village, available cars at - 10 kms: ..... 6
- no care in villago or at 10 kas of village: ......... 0
A.9 Facilities availablo In village, small markot centers (shops, bars):   1
- more than 10 trading centers per 100O inhab.: ...... 20
- botwoen 5 and 10  eonters per 1M  inhab.: .......... 16
- between 0 and 6 centers per 166 inhab.: ........... 10



Pap  13 of 20
- no conter tn village, available center at 1f knot ... 6
- no cnter In vliloge, no center at 10 knos ..........0
A.10 Number of radios:                                                1
- moro then 30 radios per 1090  inhab ............... 29
- btween 20 and 38 nadloo per 119 inhab.: .......... 15
- betwoon 10 and 20 radios per 1000 Inhnb.: .......... 19
- between C and 10 radios per 1W  inhab.: ............ C
- less than 5 radios per 1 0 inhab.: ................. o
A.1l Isolation of villge  (preosnce of an extension agent In villagO)s
- presence of a high level agritultural extension: ................. 20
- pro    nce  ofa exten s ionaoent: ......... ........................ is
- prosonce of an extension agent at 10 km* of villago: ............. 10
- prosence of an extension agent at 20 kma of village: ..............
- proeonco of an extension agent at more than 20 km of village: ....0
A.12 Extent of cosh crop production (indicator to be adapted to the provinl, depending en the kInd
of crop):                                                                     2
- more thsn .... kgo of .... per 1M  inhab.: .............20
- between.      kgs and .... kgs .... per 1kp inhnb.:.... 1
- betwoon ...... kgo and .... kge....pr 1W" inhab.:.... 10
- betwen.. kgs and .... kgs .... per 1W  Inhab.: .....
- lose  than ...... kgo and .... kg .... per 1     Inhab.: ....
A.18 Extent of seondary cash crop production:                         2
- more then .... kgo of .... pero I0 nhab.: . ............ 20
- betwoen.      kg* and ....kgs.... per 1W  inhab.:.... 15
- between ...... kg* and .... kgs .... per 1M  inhnb.: ....1
- between ...... kgc and .... kgs .... per I     Inhab.:    6
- less then ...... kgo and .... kg .... per IO00 nhab.: ....0
A.14 Incom  level of area (estimate of collected taxes per number of Inhabitant; to be adpted to
the province):                                                        2
- more than ..... F d collected per lO00 Inhb.: ....... 20
- betwo-n.     and .... F  d per 10W  Inhab.: ........... 16
- between.     and .... F  d per 1    inhab.: ........... 10
- betwen .     and .... F  d per 1W  inhob.: ............ C
- l*es  then .... F d collected per 1OW inhab.:..         0
A.16 External Assistance fro development projects covoring entire village In poest fivo years
(subsidies for construction of schools, helth centers, social centers, bridges, roads, shope,
cooperativoe, markots, electrification):                              1
= 4 projects or more, financed In post 6 years: ..        20
- S projects financod In past C years .....  is
- 2 pro4ects finonced In post 6 yearos .1... I
- 1 project financed In past 5 years ... 6
- no dovolopment project in past 6 years: ... 0
A.16 External financial assistance on development projects covering sections of locol population In
tho post five years (number of loans or financial assistance for income-generating activitite):  I
- 10 projects per 1M  inhob or more In post 5 years: .... 20
- 7 to 9 projeets per 1M9 inhob or more In post 6 years:1
- 4 to 6 projecto per 100 Inhob or more In post 5 years:19
- 2 to 5 projects per 100 inhab or more In past 6 yeare:.5
- 0 to 1 project per 1M inhob or more In post S years:..0
Final Points for Area: .      (out of 4e polntc) . ...........
Indicativo Interpretation
- betwoen 8I1 and 400 pointe: well-off are relativo to the provinee
- betwen 200 and 890  points: relatively poor or"
- between 199 and 200 points: fairly poor area
- loss than 106 points.    : very poor area
Indicators on Standard of Living of Group Members



Page 14 of 20
love  Critorla        points (out of 20)            X Coofficionts a
......................................................... *....... ...........................
3.1 Lose of Employment In the pest two yoers (proof of employment provided through copy of wage
stub)                                                                   5
- lose  than 10X of members have lost employment In last 2 years: ..... 20
- 10 to 20X of members lost employment in 2 years: ................... Is
- 20 to aox of members lost employment In 2 years: .       . ................. is
- U9 to 40X of members lost employment In 2 years: .       . ................. 6
- more than SOX members lost employment In 2 yoars: .................9
8.2 Level of Fmale Participation In Group:                              4
- 9X of feale: ........................................... 20
- 9 to 19  of female: ..................................... 16
- S9 to eox of female: ....10
- O to 991 of feal: ....                                       6
- more than 90X of female:.                                    0
1.1  Levol of Youth Participation In Group:
- OX of youth :                       ..  20
- a to 391 of youth:                    .          .             15
- So to 691 of youth:   .               .9. t
- 6 to 90% of youth:   .                 .. 6
- mor then 90X of youth:   .               .. 0
0.4 Members principal occupation (X of members with only agriculture Income  agriculture, livestock,
fisheries):                                                             &
- 16 to 201 have agriculture and non-agriculture income:_20
- 19 to 16X have agriculture and non-agriculture Incomo:..16
- S to 10e  have agriculture and non-agriculture income: ...1
- 1 to SX have agriculture and non-agriculture income: .       6
- 1099  have only agriculture incoe: .0
Note: If more than 29X of mebrs have agriculture and non-agriculture iecom, the group Is .o loner
oligible for FIMAC financing.
8.6 Avorago annual tax payments by members, relative to vii lage averaog   In the Province  (oavraeoo
.      ... F/year/family.  (This average should be specifled by Provinco, after surveying villa1gs.
Members' tax lovel will be determined froe  following quostions):    2
- 16 to 29X of members pay more than average:       .      . 2
- 10 to 16X of members pay more than average: .15
-  6 to IOX of members pay more than average: .1
-  i to 6X of members pay more than averag:           .        6
- 19OX of members pay lose  than avorage: .
Note: If more then 29X of memers pay more than averago the group to no longsr eligble for FIdAC
financing.
8.6 Education lovol of members relative to the provincial average to be deftned. ( This lovel in to
be    determined    after    surveying    end    exprososd    in    a    simple
Way.):                                                                  2
- 15 to 20X of mmbers above avera: .....................a.    20
- 19 to 15X of members above average: .....................a . 
-  6 to 1OX of members  bov  average: .....................v .  f
-  1 to  SX of mmbers above average: ...................... 6
- 1OOX of  embers below average: .        ..........................9 
B.? Level of external assistance givon to group (total in cash and kind)t               I
- more then 6,000,000 CFA: ................................ 20
- between 2,eoo,000 and 4,000,000 CFA: .................... 16
- betwoen 600,900 and 29000,000 CFA: ...................... 19
- lose  then 599,000 CFA: ................................. 6
- no external asistance: .................................. 
FINAL POINTS: .........            (out of 200 points) .........
...............................................                                                .....
Indicative Interprotation:
- between 15 and 20: members aro well-off relative to the province



rage i3 or zu
- betwoon 10 and 16s relativoly poor area
- between 6 snd 10 : fairly poor orse
- lose then 6: very poor orea
Total Grade (out of 60e) for Aroa and GrouD Mombor*=A+A
Indicative Interpretation:
- between 460 and oo: area and group memboro aro woll-off rolative to the province
- between 300 and 460: relatively poor area
- between 160 and 300 : fairly poor area
- less than 1S0: very poor aroe



Page 16 of 20
FZMAC Scheme
Agrlculture Projectu DIVISION (CIPA)
ministry of A;rlculturs
AGREEMENT FOR PROVISION OF EQUIPMENT TO OROUPo UNDER SrWRT TERM MICRO-PROJECT
Groups
*ub-dl triet:
District:
Province:
Appilcation Number
Date and Sgnsturo of Agroement



KTWEEN:         The FIMAC project, horoinofter eel lod IFIMAC, roprosented by tho Provincial Deleate
from  Ministry  of  Agriculturo  In  .........Province,  acting  as Division  Chief
Agrlculturo Projecto Division In Ministry of Agriculture, Director of FIMAC on the
one hnad.
AND             the group ...........in villag        .      sub-district.         departmnt.
revineo.. ....bhersinaftor callod tho 'group, roprocsnted by Its President and
Tr ouror,
on the other hand,
AND             tho sponsoringegoe*0y of the roup,............              *...*..............., located
at ........, horoinfter called the "sponsor", representod by............
on the other hand,
the parties hereto aoree as follows
ARTICLE 1: Provlglon *n SNtn      t der ML  r FIMAC Famac will provide the group the equipmnt, described
In artile Ja. under conditionso*tatd in the prosent agremnt.  The equipment shall remain the
property of FIMAC until such time as *ll conditions of the present agreemnt are mt.
AMTICLE 2t  Accotonce by tho rouD  The group acknowledgos recelpt of the equipment, described In
articl 8, ando ogre" to its proper uso as dofinod per conditions Included In this agreement.
ARTICLE 8: Dcscriptlon end Value of Eculaments Equipment financod end provided by FIMAC includ
(type. specificatione, brand, seriol nuber, purchose price)
...............................................................................................
........................................................
....................................*.............................................................
................................
Total volue of the equipment ios....  
AtTICLE 4:  Conditions for use of soulepnt by the grouD  The group commlts Itself to use and
maintain sold equipment under Its control; the group designates a mein user of the eqvipment, and
one or two operators.  It Is strictly forbidden to:   use the equipmnt without the permission froe
the Prosident of the group.
- use the equipment without paying a user fee
(to be determined by the group) to the group's
account.
- use the equIpmnt In the absence of one of I t
designated operators.
ARTICLE S:  Reortina and Accounting  The group io to maintain simple written records and statemet
of all expenses and receIpts roeulting from the use of the equipment. The group Is to submit thoe
records to Its sponsor or FIMAC administrators for their control.
ARTICLE 6:  Reconstitution and Repsyment of copital financed by FIMAC
so:  Prlncigti. The group is obligated to reconstitute the entire volue of the equipment,
dofilnd In article S, with lntorest whenover applicable, according to tho
schedule defined In paragraph Sc.
Gb: CaDital Reconstitution/RoapYment Account The group Is obligoted to reconstitute capitol
in thc *vings account of (nome  account number, nom  of Institution, addreos):
....................... :.....................................................................................-
.........................................................
.................................................................................*................
.........................................................
Said account io already opened under the signature of (nam and function)
and the departmental coordinator of FIMAC who io currently (name)
.......................................................................
Gc:  Reconstitutlon/Ropoexynt Schedule  The group hos already made a deposit In the said
account.  The account hoo proesntly a credit balance of
(amount) ...............                . FCFA.
The group will make payments according to the following installment plan for the entire valuo of the



*qulp t recelveds
Dposlt Ordero        Duo Date             Amount          Cuulativo Amount
(Initial deposit
in account)            ^              ..........
-Second Installment  .........        ..      ..         ........  .
-Third Installment   .........        ...........    ...........
-Fourth  tstI leont    ......................            ................
-Fifth tnstallment   ........         .....     .        ..
-Sixth Installment   .....................                 ...............
-Seventh Inw. II Bet ..........   .    .      .           ... ..
-41ghth Inot tlent   . .........       ..........     .    . . ..... ... ... ..
-Ninth   tetl lloent  ..........      ...........        .................
-Tenth tnstalleont   ..... .         .   ......          ...  ..........
TOTAL VALUE TO KE RECOSTITUTED: ...     ........
The group will repay tho above entiro amount through regular lnot.lloont. Interest earned on
deposlto will accrue to the occount, but will not be deducted froe amunt to be reconatituted.
ad. O.n.itq from lnterost earned on the account.  tnteret earned on the account wiII be
retai n  I th *ccount. Tho group shll not b nofit froe lnterest erd o th  accont
until such tioe as :- reconstitution Is ceoploted, - or In the eas of a traeofer,
equpment l repoosesed.
If the  roup do  not rospect the above ropsyment schedule s,a IInterest earnd on the account will
b  rots ned and used towards psymnte of Installmonts, with no rights for tho group.
ARTICLE 7: Procedures osrinot Doelnouency
7.: - if the group do" not  keo use of tho equipent according to cooditions
article 4,
- or If the group does not mi*ntain *dequate records for use of
quipment, as per article 5,
- or If the group does not make paymente on installmont, as per article
a,
FIMAC shell use following proceduroe
7b: Evaluation of the caos with the sponsor FIMAC will oend an agont to evaluate the
situation with a representative of the sponsor. The group*s records and finances will
be jointly exaoined. Solutions will be proposed to rectify the situation. Upon return,
the FIMAC agent shall make a report, Including proposed solutions and the possibility
of reposo"selng the equipment, also lndicating:
- a proposal for transfor of equipment to a second group
- a fair assessment o tho seltvae value of the equipment
- a statement on the reconstitution account, indlcating amunts already pald and tnteret
earned.
The FItAC agent sholl s nd the report to the Provincial Delegate of MItNARI through the DA staff
tn tho province for study by the provincial comission. Itf judged necesary the representative of
the sponsor would mke a- separate report to the provincial comission.
7C: Dthetuin to ftwooss th  e u nt Based on the report, the provincial comlssion mey
decid to withdrew and trenofor theoquipment to a second group. Under such
ci rcuostance, paymets made will be rotained to complete reconstitution. The  ceond
group will continue payment. on Intal lmente. However, If reconetituted *oounte exceed
the  quipment depreciation amount, the provincial comission *oy decide to reimburs
the firet group for part of tho reconstituted amount.
7d: The srouDos s'reement to repossession The group shall not object In any way to the
rposeoesion of the equipment and its transfer to another group In the case of
delinquency.
ARTICLE B: Garanntees    the rouD The group sgrOse to provide the following property belonging to
th  group *I ollat ra(  diond, construction, vehicle  he4vy equipment):
- in cae  of delinquency and non-respoct of the repsymnt schedule, defined In paragraph



Page 19 of 20
Se, and It value of seized equipment doos not compensate for the outstanding instal lmnt
paymnts, the group authorizes seizure and sale of following goods by FIMAC to sake up
for the balance:
.................................................................................................
.........................................................
.................................................................................................
ARTICLE 9: Limits on the Group's Liabilities In the case of delinquency, FIMAC can only intervene
ln the following arenas
- It con repossess the equipment defined In artiele 3
- It can *.sei and well property defined as collateral In artiele 9
It cannot under any circumstance:
- force the group to pay for instilIments from any sourc of Ince   other than
that derived from fees collected from the us. of equipment;
- seize any individual property of members;
- force individual members to pay for due installmenta;
- asize any property of the group, other than those defined in artlelo
S.
ARTICLE 10: Uso of Reconatituted Capital
1Oa: Control FIMAC dologates tho responsibility to us. the reconstituted capital with the
dopart-ental coordinator as long as said capital is to be used under the control of the
same sponsor.  Th. departmntal coordinator represents th- provincial delegat  of
Agriculture and the Chief of the Agriculture Projects Division (DPA), In hi aeopecity
as dIrector of FIMAC, for the tasks of control and use of capital re..onatltutlon.
lOb: Reallocation of Capital Reconstituted capital can be used to finaneo another micro-
proj-ct by a different group in accordance with FIMAC guidelines. The sponsor should
present an application for another group to the Zhief DEVCOM In the department. The
chief will notify and authorize the departmental coordinotor for rellocation of funds
to another group, supervaed by th- same sponsor.
Another agreemnt, In sccordnco; with FIMAC guidelines, will be made with the second
group.
The proesnt agreement will be signed by the Departmental Sectlon Chlo of Comunity Development
DEVCOM, representing FIMAC.
10c: Case of Absence of Other E.iible GrouDC In tho event that tho Section Chief of DEVCOM
deems that no othor group superviaed by the sponsor are eligible for financing, he thall
notify the provincial commission. This authority io solely authorized to withdraw funds
from the sponsor's reconstitution account for reallocation purposes to other groups
supervised by different sponsors.
ARTICLE 11: Sponsor's Resoonsibilities The sponsor io obligated to:
- assist th- group in the proper usage of the equlpment
- ensure that maintenance for the equipment is provided and the group's control over
Its usage is adequate and conforms with article 4
- *asiot the group in maintaining records
- assist the group to make sufficient monetary provisions for payment of
inatallmnts
- monitor that lnstallmnts are pald according to schedule
- inform Departmental Section Chief of DEVCOM of any missed paymente or non-respect of
articles of present agreement or any difficulty in the proper exploitation of equipmnt
or reconstitution of capital.
Location ....     ......
Date
Provincial Delegate              President of Group                   Sponsor
of Agriculture        (nam, first name, IRead and approved)    (noa  of sponsor, nam of
representative)
Two Members of Group's Committee
(name, first name, *Road and approved')



VILLAGE STORAGE
Description
1.          In accordance with Government policy to disengage from commercial and
directly productive activities, it is proposed to encourage the establishment of
grain stores managed by groups of producers in villages. The project would
finance a pilot program in the Extreme North province for 200 groups of 15 - 20
members. Average capacity of the stores would be 40 tons.
2.          In addition to support provided through the FIMHC program for
construction of the store, the groups would receive rations and equipment from
UFP as -oell as an initial stock of 20 tons of grain which would serve as working
capital.   It is envisaged that the groups would gradually build up their
operations to handle 40 tons. Extension services would provide assistance on
storage techniques while the groups would receive training in stock management
from NGOs in collaboration with staff from the Community Development Directorate
of MINAGRI.
3.          The component has been proposed on a pilot scale because of the
management difficulties inherent in communal storage operations. Precautions
taken to minimize the risk of failure include:the attention given to training a*nd
the prospects for close follow-up by involved NGOs as well as location of the
pilot program in the Far North, where farmers have the greatest incentive to
undertake such operations to assure their food supply.
Costs
4.          Total costs of the component, including contingencies, amount to CFAF
825 million (about USS 2 million) of which over 402 would be for grain to be
financed in kind by WFP.
Organization and Management
5.          The Provincial Delegate for Agriculture in the Extreme North would
be responsible for supervising the program, which would be carried out according
to procedures established for FIMAC projects. An agreement would be signed with
WPP with respect to the assistance to be provided by them which would be
coordinatea by the local WFP Committee. Extension and training would be provided
as described above.



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Pest Control Program
1.      Background.  More than 1,200,000 hectares of crops in Cameroon are
threatened by locusts. Although, in an international context, the country is
not considered in the front line for locust attacks, the problem is becoming
endemic in the two most northerly Provinces where about 702 of the threatened
area is located.   In the absence of appropriate prevention and control
masures, there is potential for 202 to 702 of crops losses in an area where
food security is marginal due to climatic factors.  Over the past 5 years
only about 25Z of the area infected has been treated.
2.      The Government has established a structure for combatting locusts
which includes inter alia an early warning system in the north of the
country. However, Government services suffer from a lack of means to carry
out effective campaigns and is usually obliged to fall back on appeals for
emergency  assistance  from overseas.   Despite  international  efforts  to
organize locust control at the regional level (ECLO-FAO, ECOFORCE-France),
response  is inadequate.   To date the Government has  relied on ground
treatment by the local plant protection brigades of the Ministry of
Agriculture, and aerial spraying by the Aerial Protection Control Unit (APCU)
located in the North. Due to the current financial constraints, both the
plant protection brigades and APCU suffer from a lack of logistical support,
obsolete vehicles and equipment, and in the case of the former, forced staff
reductions severely limits Government's capacity to undertake ground
treatments.
3.      While FAO has been active in the annual program, providing assistance
in treatment and training, Cameroon's anti-locust program needs a more
systematic approach in order to avoid the wholesale destruction of crops
which occurs when preventive measures are neglected. The rural population in
threatened areas needs more training to undertake preventive and remedial
measures. While the intervention capacity of local plant protection brigades
needs to be enhanced, the projected cost (US$ 6.0 million equivalent) of
upgrading the service was considered too costly at this time. As the APCU
covers some 652 of the area treated, against about 352 by the plant
protection brigades, the Government opted for financing aerial treatments as
the most economic man* of addressing the problem in the short-term. The
projected income statoment for APCU for FY92 (expected to remain at similar
levels thereafter), demonstrates APCU's capacity to generate rovenues
sufficient to replace equipment and provide operating costs to cover its
commercial activitLes, leaving a not profit which can be used to defray
Government's recurrent cost of anti-locust activities representing about 201
of the totals



(CFAF)
Income
Government (Anti-locust campaign)    160,000.000
(Village Treatments)       25 000,000
Commercial Activities                 175000000
360,000,000
Expenses
Fuel                                   74,300,000
Spare Parts                            13,500,000
Aircraft Servicing                     31,200.000
Insurance                              30.000,000
Other Overhead                         96,000,000
Depreciation                           90.6 50000
235,650,000
Net Profit                              124,350,000
4.      Obiective.  The objective of the medium-term program would be to
assist the Government formulate a sustainable crop protection strategy,
drawing on minimum support from the public sector and involving as such as
possible local communities in preventive and protective measures.   The
optimal strategy would be to provide the utmost protection to plants when
they are most vulnerabLe to attack and to destroy the maximum amount of
locusts vhen they are most defenseless (although provision should also be
made for emergency treatment of unpredictable attacks by adult swarms).
J.      Description.  Under the proposed project a study will be done to
evaluate the Crop Protection Services of the Agriculture Ministry, especially
its phytosanitary brigades in the region, define the level of participation
which could be expected from the local population as well as the logistical
needs against locust attack in the northern Provinces. Based on the study,
the Bank would assist the Government in mobilizing and coordinating donors'
assistance (materials and equipment for HINAGRI and farmers, chemical inputs)
for this program.
6.      As more than half the treatment is done by air when the intervention
capacity of ground forces are surpassed, the project would support APCU in
both survey and treatment flights, through the provision of new transport and
z.-pairs to existing aircraft, equipment and spare parts, training and
operating costs. A recent study undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture
projects that APCU can generate sufficient funds through its comercial
activities to replace equipment and cover operating costs, and contribute 20Z
to the recurrent cost of the Government's anti-locust program in the North.
Two cropduster aircraft at a cost of about US$300,000 each are included under



Page 3 of 3
the proposed project, as purchase is more economical than leasing.
7.      Costs.  The total cost of the component, including contingencies,
would be CFAF 1297 million (approximately USS 5.4 million) as follows:
Bank     Govt.    APCU         Total
Vehicles & Equipment    2.11                             2.11
Training                 0.20                            0.20
Operating Costs                   1.76     1.37          3.14
Total               2.31      1.76     1.37          5.44
8.      Orianization and Manasement.   APCU would carry out survey and
treatment flights as requested by the Plant Protection Service, supported by
the  FAO  annual  training  program.   MINAGRI  would  be  responsible  for
undertaking the a study to determine the cost/effectiveness of the Crop
Protection Service and the possibility of farmer participation in crop
protection (the cost of which is included under the MINAGRI components int he
summary table in Annex 7, p. 2).
9.      Benefits.  The Locust Control Program would significantly improve
food security in one of the most vulnerable regions of Cameroon by reducing
the risk of crop destruction by locust swarms. Preventive action and timely
treatment will result in protection against losses.



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Early Warning and Market Information System
Description
1.      The information system would need to provide for the collection,
analysis, summary and diffusion of data on variables considered relevant to
the monitoring of food security and markets. At present, certain of these
data are collected unsystematically by various Government services.
Processing is neither timely, nor directed to the requirements of specific
end-users. Under the project, relevant activities wo-uld be streamlined and
coordinated by a single Government department.
The information to be provided would include:
-   forecasts of foodcrop harvests and precise indication of surplus and
deficit areas;
-   regular reports on important provincial markets (prices of basic
foodstuffs, sources of supply of local produce, presence of imports
and/or produce destined for export, volumes traded and merchants'
stocks, qualitative information on supply and demand); and
-   reports on the food security situation in high risk areas.
Specifically, the output of the information system would be:
-   quarterly bulletins and an annual report to be prepared by the
central unit for diffusion to Government planners.   These would
comprise:
-   an analysis of the cropping season based on agrometeorological
indicators (rainfall and its distribution in relation to crops
planted) and production indicators (state of crop development,
areas sown, availability of inputs, projected yields);
-   an analysis of a sample of agricultural markets with respect to
prices, volumes traded, stocks, exports and imports;
-   a qualitative note on high-risk areas (particularly the North and
outskirts of urban areas) with respect to the nutritional status
of the population.
-   regular weekly or bi-weekly radio programs at the provincial level
covering agricultural markets. These would include information on



prices, stocks and volumes traded in each market.
2.      The project would support the establishment and operation of the
information system over a period of three years. Specifically the support
would take the form of:
-   technical assistance consisting of a Chief Technical Advisor with
experience of Early Warning Systems, who would help to set up the
system over a period of two years, and specialized consultancies as
required;
-   equipment  for carrying out  the necessary  surveys  including an
allowance for renewal of existing vehicles and their operating
expenses, office equipment and expenses related to the questionnaires
and radio broadcasts; and
-   training of enumerators and MIHAGRI personnel
3.      It is envisaged that by the third year local personnel would be able
to take full responsLbility for operation of the Early Warning and Harket
Information System and no further technical assistance would be required.
However, budgetary provision would be required after the third year to permit
continuation of operations.
Costs
4.      Total costs of the component, including contingencies, amount to CFAF
344 million (approximately US $ 1.3 million).
Oraani:ation and Hanaiement
5.      Effective organization and management is crucial to the success of
the Early Warning and Irformation System. The objective would be to make
better use of available resources by relying on existing statistical services
to collect, process and diffuse the Information required under the new
system. At present these services are inefficient owing to:
-   the absence of an overall strategy defining information required and
the use to which it would be put and allocating responsibilLties to
the different services;
-   lack of communication between different ministries and even between
services withln the same ministry, aggravated by the absence of any
coordinating structure, leading to duplication of activities;
-   shortage of qualifLed staff, particularly vith respect to evaluation
of nutritional issues; and
-   inadequate and/or inappropriate data processing facilitLes.



6.      Following  review  of  the  various  statestLcal  services,  lt  is
recomuanded that the Direction de la Planification Agricole (DEAPA) of
MINAGRI be put in charge of the Early Warning and Market Information System
and manage the Central Coordinating Unit. The DEAPA in already responsible
for producing information on agricultural production and producer prices and
has enumerators in the field throughout the country as well as qualified
staff capable of processing and anslyzing the data collected. 1,
7.      in addition to the production data already collected, DEAPA would
obtain information on agricultural markets using its field personnel and
ensure the provision of specifLc data from other sources as required. The
Meteorological Service would supply climatic and rainfall data, the ministry
of Industry and Commrce (MINDIC) trade and stock data, and other
organizations, such as the parastatal development agencies and mOos,
information on nutritional aspects. All data from other sources would be
forwarded to the Central Coordinating Unit at DEAPA for processing, synthesis
and subsequent diffusion.
S.      The Coordinating Unit would be staffed with four existing personnel
namely, an agricultural economist, a statisticLan and two resoarch
assistants. The technical advisor and consultants would work with this tern.
The Unit would establish the work plans of the different entities involved in
the Information System and ensure respect of deadlines for delivery and
publicatLon of data. It would be responsible for supervising operations.
93      With guidance from the Central Coordinating Unit, field personnel
would be responsible fort
-   collecting basic data (agricultural production, market information,
qualitative assessments of the food sltuation);
-   making a brief commentary and forwarding both by telex to the
Coordinating Unit at regular intervals; and
- producing radio programs to transmit market information. These would
briefly announce prLce trends of major products and comment on the
markets (sources of supply, number of traders, volumes traded,
stocks...). The programs would be produced at the provincial level
and would require some local capacity for data analysis and program
presentation.
11 DEAPA has benefitted from substantial assLstance from USAID under the
Agricultural Hanagement and Planning Project (AMP), which is due tt) be xatended
to cover information on the livestock sector. Primary reliance on DEWPA Implies
that additional expenditure necessary to operate the Informtion System will be
minimized.



Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Market Infrastructure
1.          The Government's new policy of delegating to municipalities the
responsibility for providing market infrastructure, from their own resources or
from commercial loans which they would then repay from proceeds collected from
market users, highlights the need both for economical but functional structures
and for access to credit for the construction of market infrastructure. This
component has been designed to respond to that need.
2.          The project would provide a credit line of CFAF 1 billion to finance
market structures. While this falls significantly short of demand, it should be
sufficient to finance between 30-40 markets.   This would provide a useful
supplement to funds available for income-earning municipal projects under the
Second  Urban  Project.    Funding  would  also  be  provided  for  informing
municipalities of the opportunities available and for assisting them both in the
preparation of requests for financing and in supervising construction works.
Costs
3.          Total cost of the component, including contingencies, woul' be CFAF
CFAF 1.5 billion (about US $ 5.8 million) of which 30Z would be the contribution
of the municipalities themselves in the form of cash as well as site access and
services.  Sub-projects will not exceed USS 300,000 per project, with Bank's
prior approval required on sub-projects beyond US$150,000. An amount of USS 0.4
million will be provided for training.
organization and Management
4.          The project would follow the institutional arrangements adopted under
the Second Urban Project for financing municipal projects, channelling the funds
through the Credit Foncier do Cameroun (CFC).   CFC is mandated to promote
housing, and funding of municipal projects is considered a natural extension of
this mandate. The CFC is deemed the most appropriate institution to undertake
this role as commercial banks are neither in a position nor willing to lend to
communes, while the agency specialized in municipal finance (FEICOM) has no
experience of providing credit as opposed to grants and is, in any case,
considered not adequately staffed and experienced and unable to function as a
viable financial institution.
5.          Although CFC would have overall responsibility for the component,
representatives of the Ministry of Territorial Administration (MINAT) would
participate with CFC in the technical evaluation of sub-projects. CFC's loan
Committee would make the financial and economic evaluation of sub-projects, and
make recommendations to the Board of CFC with respect to approval of financing.
Specific responsibilities for project approval would be as followst



CFC 
-      management of the line of credit; and
_     assessment and final decision as to eligibility for fu.ding in
accordance with CFC loan regulations and with the specific criteria
established for financing market infrastructure projects (see
below).
MINAT:
-     decision as to compliance of request for funding with administrative
regulations; and
-     participation in assessment of eligibility for funding.
6.          Funds would be on-lent from Government to CFC at an interest rate at
least equal to the Bank lending rate, which would then be passed on to the
municipalities with a margin, to be determined by CFC, for a period of eight
years.  The foreign exchange risk will be assumed by the Government.  Sub-
projects above US$150,000 would be sent to IBRD for prior approval.
Conditions for Financing Market Irfrastructure Proiects
7.          In order to meet the objective of economical development of market
infrastructure it is important to establish a generally applicable framework,
describing the conditions to benefit from foreign financing. This would include:
-     the cost range acceptable for financing, not to exceed US$ 300,000;
-     viability criteria, such as a minimum economic rate of return of 15z;
-     definition of municipalities' responsibility for provision of site access,
water and (where applicable) electricity, their role in management,
maintenance.
-     financial forecasts of municipalities' expenditures and receipts, their
financing plan, including norms with respect to constitution of initial
working capital, and constitution of municipalities' budget, incorporating
provisions for debt service payments;
8.          Loan  agreements  to be  signed  between  CFC  and  the  borrowing
municipalities will incorporate the above information, as well as the
disbursement, procurement, and repayment procedures, and the right and
obligations of both parties.



Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Nutrition Education Pilot Component
Backaround and Sumarv
1.    Malnutrition is a significant problem in Cameroon; one which merits
attention under a food security intervention, if the food security effort
is to have the desired development effect -- i.e., improved labor
productivity, declines in disease vulnerability and infant and child
mortality, and improvements in children's ability to learn. Rates of
malnutrition have not been adequately monitored in the country, therefore
up-to-date statistics are not available. A national survey conducted in
1978 showed rates of chronic malnutrition, as measured by height-for-age
ranging from 202 to 30X. In the decade that followed that survey.
indications have been that malnutrition has not only not improved, but that
in many areas it has deteriorated further.
2.    Within the context of food security the most important determinants
of malnutrition are low socio-economic status associated with inadequate
access to food, seasonal food shortages and inappropriate infant and child
feeding and maternal dietary practices. In view of the high ratio of food
self-sufficiency (96?) in Cameroon, improving household access to and
availability of food would require an emphasis on improvements in food
distribution and household purchasing power. Nutrition education has a
role to play in effecting changes in feeding and dietary practices.
3.    The nutrition component of the project is designed to broaden the
development impact of the micro-projects component by effecting changes in
practices to ensure that increased income and access to food will be used
in ways which improve nutrition. Even though no formal link has yet been
established with the micro-investment component of the proposed Food
Security Project, an effort would be made during implementation to target
same beneficiary groups, particularly women's groups, under both
components.  Activities supported under the project include: in-depth
qualitative research and analysis of child feeding and maternal dietary
practices; formulation of an education strategy; materials development and
testing; training of the technical ministries field staff in the above
activities; pilot program implementation in several departments of the
three provinces with the highest rates of malnutrition; and evaluation of
the pilot program.
4.    Linking nutrition education to efforts to improve purchasing power
should serve to broaden the effect of either intervention -- micro-projects
or nutrition education -- introduced on its own, and may be a more cost-
effective approach to meeting development objectives. Providing education
to organized groups targeted for income-generating purposes could act as an
incentive for group participation and cohesion. The nutrition education



Page 2 of 4
intervention would benefit from the delivery structure already in place for
the micro-projects.
5.    Secondarily, the nutrition component, through the qualitative
research and strategy formulation activities, will provide the foundation
for the development of a national nutrition education strategy and program
for high risk groups (children under five years and pregnant and lactating
women). The project will support the development of guidelines for the
expansion of nutrition education throughout the country.
Detailed DescriDtion of Activities
6.    Proaram Desian.  Cameroon has demonstrated capacity in the
development and implementation of effective nutrition education programs.
A pilot nutrition education project implemented in the Extreme Northern
Province by CARE/Cameroon in collaboration with the Ministry of
Agriculture's Department of Community Development and the Ministry of
Higher Education and Scientific Research was successful in developing an
effective strategy of nutrition education for illiterate, hard-to-reach
populations.   Moreover, within the Africa region, effective methods for
linking education to interventions designed to increase incomes and food
availability are underway. Building on this capacity and experience the
following steps will be undertaken to design a nutrition education program
to link to the micro-projects activities:
o     Qualitative research.  -  To supplement available information,
emphasizing maternal dietary practices, and to take into account regional
variations in behavior, the project will undertake qualitative research.
In-depth household interviews and observation, household trials of new
behaviors, focus group discussions, and analysis will be carried out under
the direction of the coordinating committee. Technical assistance will be
provided by CARE/Cameroon based upon their prior in-depth experience with
this type of research.
o     Formulation of education strategy, materials development and
testing. - The results of the research phase of the project will lead to
specific recc-mendations for the design of an appropriate education
program. Benavior change objectives will be established and a
communication strategy developed. This entails deciding on media,
materials and an implementation plan. The provincial and departmental
FIMAC (micro-projects program of the Food Security Project), involving
staff from the Division of Agricultural Projects (DPA) and the Department
of Coumunity Development of the Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible
for coordinating the strategy formulation with the micro-projects
component. ESIRES, MINSANTE, MINASCOF, CARE and other NCOs involved in
the implementation of nutrition-related activities will collaborate and
provide technical assistance. Locally available artists and materials
productions groups, within the ministries or from the private sector, will
be involved in materials development and production activities.
o     Training. - Staff will be trained in the qualitative research
consisting of collecting qualitative data (focus group, ethnographic



Page 3 of 4
accounts and testing within households), data analysis to identify problems
and elaborate a strategy, and production of pedagogical material; Training
will be provided on communication technics to about 400 field agents in the
use of the pedgogical material and dissemination of messages. Emphasis
will be put on individual councelling sessions, group discussions,and
interpersonal communication; Training will be given to members of the
technical coordinating committee and field staff in the design, data
collection and analysis for program evaluation.
7.    Implementation.  Following the development and testing of materials,
program implementation will begin with the training of the field workers.
Extension workers of the DEVCOM of MINAGRI and rural animators from
MINASCOF, involved in the coordination of the micro-projects, as well as
additional MINSANTE or MINASCOF field workers will deliver nutrition
education. Initially, the program will be launched in several departments
of the Extreme North, the Eastern and Western Provinces. Supervision and
in-process monitoring will be incorporated into the implementation plan.
8.    Evaluation.  Before launching the education activities, a baseline
study will be conducted to examine mother's knowledge, attitudes and
practices and nutrition status of the high risk population (children under
five years and pregnant and lactating women) and a comparison group.
Following one to two years of program implementation, a repeat survey will
measure changes in participants' knowledge, attitudes and practices related
to the program's messages and nutrition status.
Program Expansion
9.    The pilot nutrition program supported under this project is intended
to provide the basis for developing a strategy for a national nutrition
education program. Most of the education programs' costs are start-up
costs involved in research, strategy formulation, and materials
development, testing and production, and on-job training of field stat:.
To sustain and expand the education effort launched under this project, an
implementation plan for the phased introduction of a national program to
additional departments and provinces, and through additional channels, will
be produced by the technical coordinating committee.
Organization and Management
10.   The nutrition component will be a collaborative effort of the
Division of Family and Mental Health of MINSANTE, Department of Community
Development of MINAGRI, rural animators of MINASCOF, and MESIRES. MINSANTE
will coordinate the project. The NGO selected to assist in project
implementation will provide substantial technical assi3tance.   Work will
be done under the direction of a coordinating committee made up of
representatives from each of the ministries. Additional personnel
including artists, communication experts, trainers, field supervisors for
each of the three provinces, field-level investigators for research
activities and field-level implementation personnel to deliver the
education will work under the direction of the program manager.



Page 4 of 4
11.   A technical coordination g       -,; r ;ill be established comprising the
representatives of all the technical ainistries concerned. The group will
meet regularly to prepare action plans for the different phases of the
program. assure their execution, attend training sessions, report to their
respective ministers on the progress of program implementation and finally,
on completion of the program, define a national strategy and action plan.
12.   A MINSANTE national coordinator and the NGO technical coordinator
would be responsible for assuring program execution, including the
financial and physical management of the project. A contract between
MINSANTE and the NGO will establish precisely the responsibilities of each
of the coordinators in the physical planning of the work, preparation of
annual budgets, monitoring of physical implementation of the program and
budget execution. The NGO will make available experts and personnel
corresponding to the tasks to be carried out for necessary logistical and
administrativea support for program management.
13.   A supervisor would be assigned to each zone responsible for analysis
nf data collected, establish a specific strategy for the zone, and
sdpervise the work of the lanimateurs'.
Implementation Schedule
PROJECT YEAR         PRE-PROJECT    PY1   PY2      PYS      PY4
Actvitios (Quart.r)     1 2 3 4    1 2 J4 1 2 J 4 1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
Impl* ntation Plan          x     x
Personnel recruitment             x
Qualitative Research                xxxxxxxxxxxx
Strategy formulation                           x
MateraJs D-v A Testing                         xxx
Ba*eline Implementation                           x
Training                              xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Program Implemntation                          xxaxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Evaluation                                                   xxx



Cmamrooe
Food Security Progrm
Project Cost Summery
CFAF                             US3                           S Total
--- ----------- - --------    -------------------- ------X  Foreign          Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total    Exchane        Coets
A. Micro-Projecte
1. Suopprt Services              304.4     591.7    966.1           1.4      2.3      3.7         01.9      11.5
2. Projocte                     1992.9    1272.9    3265.3          7.7      4.9     12.6         39.0      39.2
S. Traitnig                      530.5      24.5      566.6         2.9      0.1      2.1          4.4       6.7
Sub-Total                          26#7.8    1839.1    4776.9         11.1      7.3     16.4         39.5      67.3
B. Locust Control                   294.2    1002.6   1296.8           1.1      3.9      5.0         77.3       16.6
C. lforstioa Syate                 169.3     134.6      343.9         0.6      *.7      1.3         63.7       4.1
D. Market Infrastructuro            926.t    636.6    1566.0           3.6      2.4      6.9        4U.6        16.6
E. Nutritio                         163.0     20 .9      371.8         0.6     0.8       1.4         56.2       4.5
Totsl BASELINE COSTS               4424.3    3915.1    8339.3         17.9     16.1     32.1         48.9     109.9
Physical Contingenciee           139.2     191.4     330.6          0.6      0.7      1.3         57.9       4.0
Price Contingencies              803.2     313.7     616.9          1.2      1.2      2.4         50.9       7.4
Total PJE"CTS COSTS                466.7    4428.1    9.6             16.7     17.0     36.7         47.6    111.4
Value Scaled by 10.0 - 1/31/1991  13:53



.4.4.i.   @6.4Q~5  0000.       (4066".46                 @004
s~~~ -     -  -    -   -. - - - - - -- - - -- - -
~~~Su   a            ,        _    o _j a  oooo _ w"f       
-                                                --  -         .. ..
. lt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
i ..10                   .._   
s42            . !                '    I
S!*geS  3I:22 1   1 SI223       l                                   3 I
4L~ ~~~~~~4E
t t tE  evo  "     "      ooo ^* 6            
Is           233    : a                                                                . i
I"S  t:                 A;                                                  jA^a
;l ~I ... 8 . __   6________ ..___



CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(USS 1Millions)
---------------------------------------------__--________________________________-
Component                       ICS        LCB        Oth-r      N.A.        TOTAL
PART I: MINAGRI
A. FIMAC
(1) Support Servies                   :                                            s
Vehicles                    1.8        :          :    :                 1.6 
0.69:                 :                :    6.69 :
:    6.34 :           :                           6.84   os
Equipment             :          :    6.43 s            s          :    6.4S
0.22:                            0 22:.
6.20: :2                   :       .26:..
Technical Assisttnc-  s                            1.84                  1.34
*          :          :    6.85:            s    6.85:.
:      :    * ~449           :      .49   *
Operating Costs                               :               1.94 :    1.94
:   :   :  :    1.11:       1.112 
0.65:      0.65:..
Training    Materials                        :        4:           :    2.14
1.56:l"               1.66:.
6.58:           :      68.5:.
Subtotal                1aa3       0.48        3.48       1.94 U.93
6.69       0.22       2.41       1.11       4.43   *
0.84       6.26       1.67       6.65       2.32   cc
(2) Rural Investoent Credits
Commecial             :          :           :    6.80:            :    6.06
9.66:           :      .66:.
Non-Comercial                     :                0.9             s    8.9 :
-   :          :    i~~~~.11         :     6.11: 
Infrastructure        .          :           s    3.17       :           3.17 :
2.32:           :    2.32:.
Village Storage       s          s           s          s          s
Civil Works                                      1.2                   1.23
6.n2            :      .92 t 
Equipmnt            s.31 s                 s    *.81 :
s.23 :          :    6.28 t s
Subtotal                                     1.J9                  1l.59
1l.17                 16.17
FIMAC TOTAL             1.93       9,48       17.67       1.94      2.52
3.69       6.22      12.58       1.11       14.66 
6.34       8.26       1.67   * .65          2.32   cc



D.  Inforatton System
Equipmnt                              0 s    6.4:      :          :     .43
* 6.4  :                     :    6 4@ *-
Technical Assistance  :                          0: 449               .049
0.49 :               0.49:..
Training              :                     :    6.18            :    6.13
6.13:                 6.13:.*
Op.ortlng Doste                             s                .7 :    6.57
*           .          .    6~~~~~~~.37:  6 .37   o
Subtotal                          6.43       6.67       0.37       1.52
6.49       6.67      0.37        1.52  *s
PART 1I: APCU
A. Locust Control
Vehicles              :      .15:           :          :          :      .15:
0.15:           :          :         :    0.15:.
Equ_ipmt                    1.96 :          :          :          :    1.96
:    1.96            :          s          :    1. 9  :
Training              s          s          s    9.26 f                6.206:
t  :      S     6.26:          :    6.206:
Operating Costs       :          :          s               3.14 s    5.14
Subtotal                2.11                 6.26       3.14       6.44
2.11                 6.20                  2.81   e
PART lII: CFC
A. Line ot Credit
Subloans              :               4.25 s      1.6 :          :    5.33
:               2.:99       1.1            :    4.6  : 
Technical Assistance                             8 s   6.49 :          0 .49
a    6.40:                 6.49 : .
Subtotal                          4.25       2.0                  08.32
2.69       1.59                 4.57   o
PART IV: MINSANTE
A. Nutrition
vehicles              s    6.14 s           s          s         s      .14 :
s    6.14 a          s          s                9.14 a *
Equipment                             0 s    6.22                      0 s  6.22 :
s         a    6 5.22 s         s                6.22 : .
Technical Assistance  s          s               t          9.5  S  S  O.55 S
S         S          S    6.55 Sa    0.55:S
Troining              a          s          s    O  U            a    98.3
s   t         t    ~~~~~.93 s       t      .09s
Operattin  Cost       a. S:                                  .59 s     6.50
a  a        a          a   ~~~~~~6.59 a  6.9: 
Subtotal               0.14        .22      6o.u        *.9        1.54
6.14      0.22       6.53       .6.9       1.54  *
TOTAL                   S.2"      5.41      26.90       5.05      35.54
Of which sank         2.94      3.42       15.C4      1.32      25.62   e
Of which Japan        6.54      0.74       1.74       1.62       5.4 o4



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT ESTIMATE
Bank Fiscal                         Standard 6.5-Year
Years & Semesters      Estimates      Disbursement Profile
(US$'000)                           CUS$'000)
Cumula-
Semester      tiv               Cumulative         S
1992 I    0.46   0.46       2        0.46             2
II   0.69   1.15       5        1.15             5
1993 I    0.92   2.07       9        2.07             9
IS   2.07   4.14      18        4.14            18
1994 I    1.61   5.75      25        5.75            25
II   2.76   8.51      37        8.51            37
1995 I    2.99  11.50      50       11.50            50
II   2.07  13.57      59       13.57            59
1996 I    1.84  15.41      67       16.10            70
YI   1.38  16.79      73       18.40            s0
1997 x    0.92  17.71      77       19.78            86
1I   1.15  18.86      82       21.39            93
1998 x    1.61  20.47      89       23.00           100
II   1.38  21.85      95
1999 I    1.15  23.00    100
DISURSEMENTS PROFILE
l']    X
4. 
4 13
|~~    b',   *  *       *  *-     **e



REPUBLIC Of CANROOK
FOOD SKCURITY PUOJICT
Organizational Chart
of Agr a.                                                  clg ef bh  ir d C
Ir.gw.    U     e                                                                                    I -o  % .C. nPt)
*fWA      P U! AI 4                                                       T.i   I
-                                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
hftl.m       F~~~~~ dZw,.e ,em. ".l. dee l N...IIai  r.IT..Ic.i.s.I
lou~ ~~1 W.  *..~Cmulin lre (F3C)                                                        Nil
fte~~~~~~~~~~~twma
st ff1 r_.wAA
I ftraw &l atu If.      J mS
*.~~~~~~~~~fr                         * eu emi



CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
ImDlementation Schedule
Agency
Task                             Completion Date              Responsible
Apoointment of
Staff and Lona Term consultant
1.Selection of long-term DEAPA-MINAGRI
consultant for the Early Warning
and Market Information System.         August 1991
2.Carrying out of Study
Formulating of Strategy
-  Prepare Terms of Reference          September 1991            DPA-MINAGRI
for the study on crop protection
services of t'NAGRI
- Signing of contract for carrying    November 1991              DPA-MINAGRI
the above study
- Formulate strategy on crop           September 1992            DPA-MINAGRI
3. Crop Protection
- Organize meeting with interested    October 1992               DPA-MINAGRI
donors in supporting reforms
in the phytosanitary operations of
MINAGRI
4. Training
- Establish training needs             November 1991             CFC
of staff from municipalities                                     MINAT
-Identify Training Institution         January 1992              MINAT
and organize sessions



5. Annual Work Plan, ReDorting
and MonitorinR and Evaluation
- Prepare detailed Annual Work
Plans and Budget for each year        September 30, 1991         DEAPA,DPA-MINAGRI
and June 30 thereafter    APCU-HINAGRI
MINSANTE
CFC
- Semi-annual Progress
Reports                             June 30 and December 31   DEAPA, DPA-MINAGRI
each year                 APCU-HINAGRI
MINSANTE
CFC
- establish and maintain                                        DEAPA, DPA-MINAGRI
records and accounts on various                                 APCU-HINAGRI
components                                                      MINSANTE
CFC
- have records *nd accounts           December 31 every year  DEAPA, DPA-MINAGRI
independently audited,                plus a second audit       APCU-MTNAGRI,
with a certified copy                 of FIMHC by May 31        MINSANTE
sent to IXRD                          each year                 CFC
- mid-term evaluation of FIMAC
component                             December 31, 1994         DPA-MINAGRI



REPUBLIC OP CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Supervision Input into Key Activities
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
Progress reports are to be aubmitted at the end of March and September of
each year. Ministry of Plan vill be responsible for consolidating the
reports prepared by the various project agencies. Ministry of Plain will
be responsible for submitting to the Bank a mid-term evaluation of FIMAC
operations during 1992.
Reports will be submitted to supervision missions, to be scheduled around
mid-March and mid-September.
MINPAT will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions.
Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and vrap-up meetings normally
chaired by the MINPAT, with the participation of representatives from
MINAGRI, MINSANTE, MINASCOF, HINAT, CFC.
Bank's Contribution to supervision.
CY          Mission's Obiectives                  Staffweeks
1991- II   Review progress in                     Task Manager 4.0
meeting conditions of
effectiveness
1991- III  Supervision to review                  Task Manager 6.0
Work Plans and Budget
1992       Mid-Term Rview of Food Security    Task Manager
Operations                            Specialists 12.0
1992-1995  Two supervision missions               Task Manager 60.0
reviewing progress of                Specialists
Project, Work Plans, Budget,
and audits
Project Supervision missions will be combined with other tasks in
Cameroon.



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.      The varied nature of the different components of the Food Security
Program poses obstacles to adoption of the conventional methodology for
economic analysis of agricultural investment projects. The program cannot be
analyzed as a single entity but only as the sum of its parts. Therefore,
econouic rates of return have been estimated for the individual components
and, on the basis of these, an assessment has been made as to the overall
economic viability of the project.
A. Micro-Projects
2.      Two characteristics affect the economic analysis of this, the major
component of the Food Security Program. Firstly, as the choice of a specific
investment is left to the beneficiaries, the benefits cannot be identified or
quantified ex ante in any meaningful fashion. Secondly, in so far as they
can be identified, they consist of items that are essentially nontraded, or
whose market is strLctly circumscribed. This suggests that economlc value
can be approximted by financial prices, particularly as prices of equipment
supplied for use in the micro-projects are excluslve of tax, while the value
attributed to labour (CFAP 1000/day) appears to reflect its opportunity cost
in rural areas.   The approach adopted,  therefore, has been to combine
economic and financial analysis in the review of four models considered to be
representative of the projects eligible for financing.
3.      Investment in mLcro-projects accounts for almowt SO0  of the cost of
this component, while another 8S is taken up by training, and the balance for
support costs.   Over 702 of project financing is to be for so-called
lucrativew projects, where one of the crlteria for financing is that the
estimated rate of return should be at least ISZ. The four models used serve
to demonstrate that such a critorion is realistic and even, in so cases,
modest, thereby suggesting that the rate of return for the component as a
whole is likely to attain the 152 benchmark.
4.      Despite the justifications given above, the iprecision of the
approach to economic analysis of this important component, which accounts for
over 602 of project expenditure, is likely to give rise to concern. owever,
it should be bourne in mind that the investment is to the benefit of grass-
roots coasunities, who have few opportunities outslie agriculture for
contributing to the economy. Any increase of value-added and developoent of
productive assets at this level is important as, In the absence of some
external support, little could be realLeod.



Flour Mill
S.      Small flour mills, which relieve the drudgery of pounding grain and
release precious time for other activities, are one of the items most
requested by groups of women. The model, based on purchase of a mill costing
CFAF 1,350,000 and construction of a shed in which to house it, shows that an
economic rate of return of almost 16S can be obtained when 600kg of grain are
milled each month (Table 1).  This assumes that benefits take the form of
value added, reflected by the milling charge of CFAF 50/kg, and bran,
estimated at 5S of the value of the grain milled.
6.      Considering that average annual consumption of millet and sorghum in
the North, where cereals are the major component of diet, is estimated at
about 150kg/person, 600 kg/ath would cover the needs of about 50 people. It
is likely that d4mand in even a small village would be significantly greater,
thereby assuring the profitabilLty of the operation.
7.      Financing of 60S of investment costs amounts to CFAF 870,000, which
the group would be in a posltion to reconstLtute in equal installments over
4 ysars.
Chicken Farm
8.      The chlcken farm model assumes the rearing of 500 broilers in batches
every 3 months. Although, in theory, locally produced chLckens would compete
with imported ones, this is improbable in rural areas both because of the
*natural* protection offered by distance and because of taste differences.
While there is inLitial investment ln a building and equipment, the major
expenditure is the recurrent one for feed followed by the purchase of chicks.
(Table 2)  Assumptions include; rearing of only one batch of chickens in the
fLrst year (which would in fact be sold in year 2), mortality of 302 in the
fLrst full year of production (year 2) declining to 202 in year 3 and 1O0
thereafter, a sales prlce of only CFAP 2,400 per bird, which is 20S below
average prices recorded. Even with these fairly restrictive assumptLons, tZ2t
economlc rate of return is high at 551. If one were to assume further that
a whole batch of chickens was lost in each of the last 5 years of the
project, the rate of return would still exceed 40S.
9.      Owing to the weight of recurrent costs, the group would require
assistance with these expenditures as well as wLth investment in the fLrst
year. It is therefore proposed that the asslstance amount to 601 of total
expenditures in year 1. In these circumstances, receipts from sales would be
sufficient to permit continuation of operations to reach full development in
year 2.  Reconstitution could take place over three years in three equal
installments of CFAF 303,800 each.
Palm Oil Press
10.     The model for the palm oll press is based on a press capable of
transforming up to 500 tons of Fresh Fruit Bunches (FFB) a year. As a sangle



group of farmers is unlikely to have more than So tons of its own produce to
process, it is assumed that the group would process the FFB of other farmers
in the area for a fee of CFAF 5,000/ton FFB. Conservatively, it has been
estimated that a total of 100 tons would be processed by year 3 and
thereafter, but there is clearly scope to process additional produce if i- is
available.   In comparison with manual processing, extraction rates would
increase from 8-102 to 14-152.  Oil is valued at the local price of CFWA
220/kg for both economic and financial analysis as consumption of the type of
oil produced is restricted to the domestic market.
11.     In economic terms, the benefits are represented by the incremental
oil produced  from the same quantity of FPS  (a 502 increase).   Costs
considered in the economic analysis include the investmnt in the press end
the building to house 1. as well as in supplies for operations. There would
be no incremental labour required, in fact labour requirements might actually
decline in comparison with manual processing. Under these assumptions, the
econ.omic rate of return over ten years would be 31Z. (Table 3a)
12.     For the financial analysis, it is assumed that while group members
would process their own FFB, hired labour would be used for processing FFB of
other farmers.   The hired labour would be remunerated at CA? lo/litre
processed.   Benefits would consist of the value of the additional oil
extracted from the group's own FFB plus the fees paid for other processing.
Under these assumptions, the financial rate of return would be approximately
182. (Table 3b)    Financing through FIMAC would amount to 60Z of investment
costs, which the group would be able to reconstitute in 4 years with four
equal installments of CFAF 502.500.
13.     As two out of the three models show returns considerably in excess of
152, it is not unreasonable to assume that the component as a whole will have
a rate of return of at least that amount. For this to be assured, an average
rate of about 262 on the lucrative projects alone would be required.
B. Village StoraRe
14.     The contribution to food security of an efficiently operated village
grain store is clear. Grain will be available locally when required. Farmers
can benefit from the higher price offered when grain is sold later in the
season rather than immediately after harvest while, as consumers, villagers
can benefit from a more regular supply and avoidance of speculative prices in
the lean season.  In economic terms, storage permits an increase in both
producers' and consumers' surplus as, to a certain extent, benefits are
created by substituting lower cost production in the *surplus' period for
higher cost production in the 'deficit' period, and higher valued consumption
in the 'deficit' period for lower valued consumption in the 'surplus' period.
15.     The component, which is a pilot operation, concerns the establishment
of 200 stores of 40 tons capacity.   In addition to assistance with the
investment along the lines of other micro-projects, groups would also receive
assistance from the World Food Programme in the form of en initial stock of



20 tons of grain (purchased locally), equipment and rations during the period
of constructLon of the warehouse. It is assumed that over a period of 10
years each group would gradually bulld up its stock to the warehouse capacity
of 40 tons. Losses would be reduced over the first 4 years from 302 under
traditional conditions to 102. (Table 3a and 3b).
16.     In the economic analysis, the vithout project sLtuation is assumed to
be one where farmers are obliged to sell the grain that they would otherwise
put into the grain store immediately after harvest at the prevailing low
price of F40kg.   Economic benefits are consequently reflected in the
difference between proceeds from sales, at the higher price of FSO/kg, and
purchases, net of handling costs and losses. The difference in prices has
been assumed to reflect producers' and consumers' surpluses. On this basis.
an economic rate of return of 162 is obtained.
17.     The financial profitability of the operation also rests on the mrgin
between the purchase and selling prices and the financial rate of return is
therefore equivalent to the economic one. Financing is rather more complex
than under the Hicro-Projects component. External fLnancLng from the saom
sources as under the micro-projects would cover 402 of lnvestment costs,
while the World Food Programme would finance another 302 in the form of both
rations and equipmnt. ThLs capital would be reconstituted by the group over
5 years as follows: 102 in yr2, 152 in yr3 and 252 in yrs 4-6. The World
Food Programme would also donate the initial 20 tons of grain to provide the
group with a revolving fund of working capital with which to carry out
operations and build up their stocks.
C. Infonmation System
18.     The enhanced flow of information about production and prices brought
about by the establishment of an information system should help to reduce
uncertainty and enable producers to secure more remunerative prices. This in
turn should stimulate greater production. However, it is extremely difficult
to hazard a guess as to the magnitude of the impact on production.
Furthermore, the proposed investment in establishing an informatioo system is
in the nature of a pilot operation, which would need to be reviewed after 3
years to assess its impact and the advisability of further investment.
Benefits would certainly not endure in the absence of further investment as,
apart from the technical assistance, which accounts for one third of the
costs of this component, the expenditure is essentially recurrent in nature.
For the above reasons, benefits from the proposed pilot project have not been
quantified and no economic analysis has been carried out for this component.
D. Locust Control Program
19.     The locust control program has been designed to benefit the two
provinces of the North and the Far North. As ln the case of the information
system, continued impact will depend on sustained support, so the ime diate
benefits of the investment proposed in the context of the Food Security
Program have been compared to the actual costs over the 5 year period. In



addition to the costs contained in the component as presented, pesticides are
to be added (?).   In the absence of the pesticides there vould be no
benefits. Measures are included in the project to ensure the safe use of the
pesticides proposed so that there should be no economic costs in the form of
negative environmental or health effects.
20.     The benefits have been estimated in terms of the grain harvest of the
region valued at import parity prices on the assumption that imports would
come from tlhe closest source, Nigeria.  It has been assumed that treatment
would result in the prevention of losses of 302 of the harvest in 4 of the 5
years. As losses caused by locust swarms are reputed ac high as 702 of the
harvest,  the  hypothesis  adopted  is  conservative.    Under  the  above
assumptions, the economic rate of return is almost 202. (Table 5)
Z. Market Infrastructure
21.     While investment in an individual market structure may be based on
the average cost of a module with aa *0.4itional 152 for access and services,
no estimate has been made by the marketing specialist for the expocted
operating costs of the market.   These would have to cover inter alia:
utilities, such as water and electricity, cleaning, security, general
maintenance, insurance, personrel and management. As an approximation, it
has been assumed that annual operating costs would not exceed 202 of tota'
investment. In addition, in the financial analysis, an allowance has beeL
made for depreciation over 10 years. Revenue, both to cover operating costs
and to reimburse the loan, would have to come from charges to users of the
market. Current rates range from CFAF 4,000 to CFAF 12,500 a month. For the
purposes of the financial analysis, the lower rate has been assumed for the
400 stalls which can be accommodated in one version of the module. On these
assumptions, the rate of return is satisfactory at 182.   (Table 6)    A
payback period of 8 years at 122 interest has been discussed with Goverrment,
but the model shows that even reimbursement over 5 years could be
accommodated.
22.     Economic  analysis  of  this  component  is  problematic.    While
construction costs can be estimated net of taxes, depreciation excluded, and
operating costs assumed the same as in financial terms, benefits are
difficult to identify, let alone quantify. New market structures are likely
to imply more sanitary conditions for trading of foodstuffs, thereby reducing
risks to health.  Losses may also be limited.  Greater opportunities for
marketing produce at new markets might also, eventually, lead to a prodution
response.  As it is not possible, at this stage, to put a figure on these
possible benefits ar economic rate of return has not been estimated.
Conclusions
23.     On the basis of the above analysis, a composite rate of return has
been estimated. Excluding the Information System and Market Infrastructure
components, for which no rate of return can be calculated, the economic rate
of return for each remaining component (which together account for over 802



of project costs) has been weighted by the share of that component in
combined costs. For the Micro-Projects, the minimum expected rate of 15S has
been used. The resulting composite rate of return is estimated at 16?.



ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 10
1*IC OF CM
FoOD saURrrY r Ea
2       3l       4        5        6lour Mil1
CFAF
;111                  1380000
hi. [dine                8000020
!-o41l                1480000        0        0    20000        0        0    20000         0        0        0
lt:.;,. Cost.
CM I                    S00    800    36000   380          38000   860       88000    36000    560       34000
into" nee               7200    1440     14400    14400    14400    14400    14400    14400    14400   14400
.0a800             3250     6SOO     630      60       650      6000    0         6800     6300     6500
ige                      600    120W      12000    12000    120o0    12000    12000    12000    120O0    12000
:.ebs 1 4480    66o    60                         saw       Oo        8o9     Gem      saw      s80      6Oo
jill Sn  gharge(1j    1440   2000  830000   30000  860000  8800              380000   380000  880000   360000
lren(2)                  5760    11520    14400    14400    14400    1440C    14400    14400    14400    14400
i-tof 1                149780   29930    74400   374400   374400   374400   374400   874400   874400   374400
ph Flow              -1334890  2X0620  308800   2MM 80          306  3    0   2685  15500 30      550o     308800
0 .S7302
A Financing
OAC Contribution (3)    870000
,iaed Cashi Flow      -484690   230820   305500  283500   3050         50   26500   3050    305500   805500
ont t.tution                     217500   2173W0  217800  217500
lance romeining       -496480    13120   0800      8300      0800    305500   285500  805500   30550    30550
Lo (1) FSO a 60o0ka/wA  a 12 atFu.
w (2         af value of grain mi l1d.jz
, (     S)   f investment casts.
REPUBLIC OF CAIROON
Tabl63
1       2         3        4         icken Fer                                   10 9  1
CFAf
feaitment
11i1ding                500000
uipamnt                 300000                     300000                      300000
i-total                 000000       0         0        0        0        0    00000        0        0        0
pwating Costs
:h i ek   '            150000  800000   800000   600000  gooo        600000   0 0 oooo    00000   600000   600000
!so  (2)               504000  2016000 2016000 2018000 201600  20180  2018000  9016000  2016000  2016000
nt nta,ry              50000   200000   200000  200000  200000  200000   200000  200000  200000   200000
'erfonne                iSO10    80000    60000   60000    60000          6            800      60       60
ietribution                 0    70000    80000    90000    90000    90000    90000    90000    90000    90000
i-total                  C 719000  2046000 2956000  2966000 20 0   29660    2966000 2968000 29600  266000
:eipta (3)                  0 3360000 3840000 4320000 4320000  4320000 4320000 4320000  4320000 4320000
oh Flow              -1519000   414000  84000  1054000  154000  1354C00  1054000  13S4000  1354000  13540
0.54716
'b financing
OAC contribution (4)    911400
id cas" flow          -607600  414000  864000  1054000  1354000  1354000  1054000  1354000  1354000  l354000
m-Ot;tut;in                      30360    303800   303600
ance re  ining       -607600   UOk   5U0200   750200  1354000  1354000  1054000  1354000  1354000  1354000
l 1) 500 b   i rds raInd every 3 months. 1 batch only In yrl sold in yr2.
(2) 6k  fed per bird,  6300/0k seck.
(8) Birs mold for P2400/each. Nortality: 301 yr2. 201 ye3* 101 tlhreafter.
We (4) FIUC aotribution 60S of total costa in yr 1.



ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 10
f000 5mr!Ty NKl_wCT
Table *a
1 _                  P2lPs   I Press   EcoIa.ri An I woo
t   2   S    4        5               ~ ~ ~~7             9      10
CFAF
Pre"                   8000000
0uilding                310000
6gb-al                   1138000       0        0        0        a        0        0        0        0        0
0   Nmupls I8 0000   80000    80000   80000   80000   50000   50000    800                       0000 500
Sub-toteI                 8000    8000    800  00000            000   80000   8000       800       000     800
Sonef Ige (1)            880000  88800   1100000  11000   1100000  110000 110011000100000oo   110000   11000
Oir" oil *ateeeted (2)   g10        3780    8000o  8000    3000    8 00  8000             8000    8000    8000
Ca"l Fl e              -910004     7800000    000 oloo   106000   1060000  106000   1080000  1060000  1060000  1080000
18                      0.315776
Note (         Vlud at PT0Olitr.e
Nobte (213     Incrseme,tl. Extraction rate 156 compared sigs 106 mawsl ls.
Table 3b
1       2        3                                             a itn~p     9    10
CFAP
Investaset
Frae,s                 8000000
Oillding                880000
Sub-total                3350000       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Operating Coost
0 &   e upp lie         8 0000   80000   50000   800        00 0000          50000    80000   10000   80000
0 A N4 labour (1)           0   37500    7800    7500    7500    7800         7500     7800    7800    75000
Sub-tote I                800    680    12500   12500   125000  12800   128000   1250.0  125000  12500
Recei pts (2)             880000  67500    000 800000 8O=     00000  600000  800000  600000  800000  800000
Ton* FF8 processed            s0       78      100      100      100     100      100      100      100      too
Li tromei Il eatrotod       7800    11250   15000    1800    15000   18000    15000    15000   15000    18000
Cook Flow               -9180000)  87500  67800   87500    67500   67500000   00M  67500    875000  675000
im               ~~~~~0. 177073
With Financing
FDIIAC Contribution (3)  2010000
Revl ad Cash Flow        -84000    56780   67800    67800    67500   678000   67800    67500    67800   67800
Reconstitution                     s02s0o   s02s00  502500  102500         0        0        0        0        0
Balmnce Reemining       4840000   65000   172500   172500   17250   67500   67500    675000   675000  67500
Note I1 nIeena   abo,r for prmooasiny ot*era' FPJ remnerated at FLO perglitre processed.
Noe()In.resenta  07l valued at P220/lir,for groupla'sown ..- (50t), chrg   fP0/Iortes'F.
NDoe (3)0  of inveeteent Costa.



ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 10
NWIC OF CO
rm  ssairr  Pa0Ja
fal 
Tabl * 4a
1        2        3ilmi Str         ISla l  Econ;mi An-lYfsis                     10P
CPA'
Greet  p4ireaed4 (t)        20       22       24       2a        28       so        32       S        37        40
re. Gld (t)                  0       20       22        2        2        26        30       32       36        37
CFAF 000
Invetment
Store                   1400
So'1IS                  200
SeMk                     120       12       12        12       12      132       24        24       30       30
Various                  100                                           too
Sub-total                 S10        12       12        12       12      232        24       24       30        30
OpereX n Ca.t
operai  C2)              800      264      216      1"       160      1o        1        210      222      240
Trtment (3)               20       22       24       2#        26       30        32       38       37        40
Guard                     0o       6o       so       so        6o       so        6o      0o        so        60
Wanag_awt (4)            120      120      120      120       120      120       120      120      120      120
SA-%otl                    S0       42       420      362       374      300      404       42S      439      460
Tot I Co"t                2220      478      412       874      SW       22        428      449      4 00
Senof Ito
surpive realized (8)      0       n2       soo      SW        0O      1040     1120    l1so       1320     1360
Cook Flow                -2100      242      3"        so       872      418       892      711      2&1      870
i;                   0. 16293
Iot  1)           Store of 40 tons capacity. Started off eith  onation of 20 tons of grain from W-    .
Note  2           Valued at P/ke  26 of purheaea yr 1, I11 yr 2. 15 yr 3. s10  thereafter.
Note              Treatment eo-t AiOO@,ton atored.
Note  4)          Paynt fr  ook-k             t
_Nte (5)          Prodyjcer aurplus vued at differec  between purchases at P40/kg and Sales at FP6/kg.
.r 1.eO
Table 4b
1        2         Io am    r  M          3onrc Anal4  aim                9       10
CFAF
Grain  purchaae   (t)       20       22       24        26       28       30        32       34       37        40
rain gold (t)                0       20       22        24       26       28        30       32       34        37
CPAF 000
Invoest.nt
Store                   1400
kaolea                   200
Sachs                    12        12       12        12       12      132        24       24       30        30
various                  100                                           100
Sub-total                1I0         12       12        12       it      232        24       24       30        80
erting Cost.
Gratin purcths  (2)    P.s.       66       96       1040      10      1200      16       1360     1420       60co
Trest ent (3)             20       22       24        28       26       30        32       34       37        40
Guard                     60       so       so        60       g0       60        60       60       60        so
"nae  t (4)              120      120      120       120      120      120       120      120      120       120
=ai5)                   800       264      216       1SS      16       1tO       12       204      222      240
Sub-total                  800     1348     1320      1402     1496     1590      184      1776     1919      2060
Tot I Coete               2820     1358     1392      1414     180      It12      170S     1602     1949      2090
ftecip,t4 (a)                0     160O     1760      1920     2060     2240      2400     2560     2?2       2960
Cebu  Floe               -2310      242      368       33.      $72      416       692      788      771       870
VW6                  0.161760
With Finaning
FDIACIIClP (7)            1400
Revised Cma  Flow         -920      242      3"8       G0       57       416       692      788      771       670
Reeati tutien                       140      210        o0      880      SO0
balance R-emining         -920      102      1         18       222       a        692      788      771       870
NO     )          Store of 40 tons  acity. tarterd off with donation of 20 tena of groin from WFf.
Note               Grain purchasd at 40k.
Ntef 3            Tr-toent eato FloGoC(n stored.
Net   )           Payet for bk-kep n e
Note              Valued at F6O/ k    M   f purchaa  In ,I. 205 yr2. 160 yr,3 IOU yro 4-10.
No"t              a Gr;in sold at fT/hg.
Not.  )           FV4C 405 of otero. WF 305 (in rations) es -all as other investment.



D0     o SF1fTV PRooC
Ecopoaic Anal valp
Table S
A. Locust Program
lnere.  Incre.  Net               ODicount  rreent worth
Cost.   Benef Is Benefits          Factor  Coate    Benefits
121
CfAF H;11.                             CFAf Hill.
1                 15t9.2  3416.6  1630.4               0.693 1410.225 32.B00
2                  1305.3       0  -1305.3             0.707 1040.324        0
3                 1285.7  3418.6  2132.9               0.712 915.4154 2434.043
4                 1387.3        0  -1307.3             0.634   2.3220       0
5                 120.7  3418.6  2132.9                0.667 726.0919 1930.346
4977.262 Coats years I - 5.
7425.199 ibnefits yars 1 - S.
1.491617 0/C ratio.
11898.2 Total value crop preductie, 200CO00 ha.
3418.36 Crop value 301
2279.04 Crop value 201
1139.82 Cr. value 101
Alternative benefit strcc_                  Diecounted
2       1139.S2 2279.04 3418.54 2279.04             1017.591 2088.102 3062. 74 2085.182
2        1189.52       0 2279.04 2279.04            900.1974        0 1016.894 1018.394
3        1139.62 2279.04  3418.56  22Y9.04          811.S382 1622.676 2434.014 1422.676
4        1139.52       0  2279.04  2279.04          724.7347        0 1449.469 1449.449
5        1139.82  2279.04 3410.56 2279.04           644.1076 1M.218 1938.82  1292.21S
0.02S348 B/C ratio. S years 1OS.
0.994533 I/C ratio. 3 years 20S.
2.147954 S/C ratio, 2 years 101, 3 years 305.
1.650607 B/C rctio. 5 ycars 20S.
RLU0LIC OF CAMOON
FOOD SECumrTY PROJECT
Table 6
?4 t 2rnkt  ifrastructur-; Finsrcial Anma.weia,
CFAF MIt;11 ion
Investmant Coats
Structure              30.00
Accsa aerviem,         4.50
Sub-total                34.80    0.00    0.00    O.OD    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.00    0.00
Operating Costs
Market op.ratione(1)    0.00     6.90     6.90     6.90     6.90     6.90     6. 90   6.90     0.90     6.90
Dopreci;t.ion(2)        8.48     8.45     3.45     3.45     3.45     3.48     S 94    3.45     8.45     8.45
Sub-total            3.45   10.35   10.55   10.35   10.35   10.85   10.35   10.35   10.35   10.35
Revenue(S)                0.00   19.20    19.20   19.20    19.20   19.20    19.20    19.20    19.20    19.20
Cash Floe               -37.95     6.8      0.65     8.85     8.68     *.05    0.65    8.88      0.85     6.85
IRR                       0.18
With Financ;nq(4)
Lon                    30.00
Repayment.              0.00    0.32    8.32       8.32     6.32    *.32    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Realee  Cash Flow        -7.95    0.53    0.53       0.63    0.58    0.53    0.05    *.05        0.65    0.65
With Financing(S)
Loan                   30.00
Repayments              0.00    6.04      6.04     6.04     6.04     6.04     0.04     6.04    6.04     0.00
Revi;d Caeh Flow         -7.95     2.81     2.81     2.81     2.01    2.01    2.81      2.01     2.01    0.85
Note (1) 201 investment coots.
N    (2) Straight line ever to years.
Not (3 400 a CFAf 4.000/3th.
Mat1s (4) Repayment over S years. 121 interest.
Nt(  Reyment ever 8 ye,  121 interest.
A rch 4. 199



MAL I                              ETRA   FIA           27 
N ICGME ROO                      J
CEf ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ k .fd                   SUDAN           LOEESO20oZd  co1,      00j                                   E  
>   S:   >                                                                  r   .RSAUBLIC                    .
CAMEROON                                                                   ISLOMATER    29-ST            ;}~ O10 2  4  6
Of THES                                                                                      UDA  
-.-bnzema~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ;  jw'sA$,A
il   N   0.-- t1_ CY T
*' r   r RO't   '    //'    =- -- E      , 'E
l,                                           A,             19  -          ,3        4ro-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAA,REz 
,',1  -%        1    --- ;NA.'
, ,.       /               w    '                        .! t  BWm&.                                                /     C H A  D       
N  I GE Ra,gd I A.                                                                                               t                      ICA
2  0               -           DF                                                                    }           REPUBLICk-
s   0             X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;     K~~~~~~ftno                                                                                                        A Selw  Ri      
.  seueo    .'s  0      oBfom
K-,bo-                                           0 N_-  ,         -O.
:~ ~~~E& .                0Eoo        ls         -40-
r                   ~~~~~~EQUATORIAL GUINEA  !              G A 8'0 N                A PEOPLE'S  R2Ef                       t 
,  (CONTINENTAL GUINtA     !)o  F    T HE                                                CONsIGO          
r     I           z    _                  !              1^                                   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



