Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3388 CM
(Food Security Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UNITE DE TRAITEMENTS AGRICOLES PAR VOIE AERIENNE
Dated September 16, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3388 CM
UTAVA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and UNITE DE TRAITEMENTS AGRICOLES PAR VOIE 
AERIENNE (UTAVA).
 WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Cameroon (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that UTAVA agree to 
undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a UTAVA grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
UTAVA, part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to UTAVA on the terms and conditions set forth in said UTAVA Grant 
Page  2
Agreement; and
WHEREAS UTAVA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. UTAVA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part B 
(a) of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part B (a) of 
the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B (a) of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(b)
UTAVA shall follow guidelines satisfactory to the Bank with respect to 
the procurement, application and handling of the pesticides required under Part B (a) 
of the Project.
Section 2.03. UTAVA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B (a) of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. UTAVA shall duly perform all its obligations under the UTAVA Grant 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, UTAVA shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the UTAVA Grant Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) UTAVA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B (a) of the project, the performance of 
its obligations under this
Agreement and under the UTAVA Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan.
(b)
UTAVA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B (a) of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by UTAVA of its obligations under this Agreement and under 
the UTAVA Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of UTAVA
Section 3.01. UTAVA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
Page  3
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. UTAVA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and management practices.
Section 3.03. UTAVA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) UTAVA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
UTAVA shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of UTAVA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify UTAVA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
Page  4
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For UTAVA:
Unite de Traitements Agricoles
   par Voie Aerienne
B.P. 1055
Garoua
Republic of Cameroon
Telex:
7758 KN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of UTAVA may be 
taken or executed by the
Governor of the Northern Province or such other person or persons as UTAVA shall 
designate in writing, and UTAVA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
UNITE DE TRAITEMENTS AGRICOLES
   PAR VOIE AERIENNE
By /s/ Paul Pondi
Authorized Representative
Page  5
