Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3388 CM
(Food Security Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CREDIT FONCIER DU CAMEROUN
Dated September 16, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3388 CM
CFC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CREDIT FONCIER DU CAMEROUN (CFC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Cameroon (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CFC agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a CFC subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CFC, part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be relent to CFC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS CFC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CFC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part D of the Project, in cooperation with MINAT, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Part D of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and CFC shall otherwise agree, CFC shall carry out the program 
of Sub-loans included in Part D (a) of the Project in accordance with the policies and 
procedures set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. CFC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part D of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. CFC shall duly perform all its obligations under the CFC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CFC shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CFC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of Part D of the project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CFC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part D of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CFC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CFC
Section 3.01. CFC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic and financial practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CFC shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
management practices.
Section 3.03. CFC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
Page  3
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CFC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
CFC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CFC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CFC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  4
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For CFC:
Credit Foncier du Cameroun (CFC)
B. P. 1531
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Telex:
8368 KN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CFC may be 
taken or executed by its Directeur General or such other person or persons as CFC 
shall designate in writing, and CFC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
CREDIT FONCIER DU CAMEROUN
By /s/ Georges Ngango
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Policies and Procedures for the Execution of
Part D (a) of the Project
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Part D (a) of the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with the following operating policies and procedures:
A.
Sub-project Identification and Appraisal
 
Proposed Sub-projects, previously selected by MINAT, shall be submitted to CFC 
which shall arrange for their appraisal in cooperation with MINAT. The appraisal 
report for each Sub-project shall include:
(a)
the technical feasibility, financial viability, economic justification 
Page  5
including land aspects (location, acquisition and compensation) and, where applicable, 
commercial soundness and
availability of markets;
(b)
an economic rate of return calculation in accordance with methods 
acceptable to the Bank; only Sub-projects with an economic rate of return of at least 
15% shall be approved;
(c)
appropriate consideration of the technical and managerial capability of 
the rural or urban commune (the commune) proposed to carry out the Sub-project and the 
choice of technology, timing, location and justification thereof, including 
environmental concerns and proposed solutions; and
(d)
the adequacy of the arrangements for the recovery of service charges, and 
the responsibilities for provision of site access, water, electricity, management and 
maintenance.
B.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-projects
 
1.
The estimated cost of any Sub-project shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent.
 
2.
The commune proposed to carry out the Sub-project shall contribute, out of its 
own funds, not less than thirty percent (30%) of the estimated total costs of each 
Sub-project.
3.
Sub-loans shall be made for a maximum term of ten (10) years with a grace period 
of not more than two (2) years.
4.
Sub-loans shall carry interest at an annual rate equal to at least thirteen 
percent (13%) on the principal withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made and be repayable in CFA Francs.
 
C.
Sub-project Approval
 
1.
All Sub-projects shall be submitted for approval to CFC and, when estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more each, to the Bank.
2.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan for a Sub-project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or more to the Bank for approval, CFC shall furnish to the Bank 
an application, in a form satisfactory
to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the commune to carry out the 
Sub-project and an appraisal thereof, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; 
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by CFC for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect of a Sub-loan for a Sub-project estimated to cost less than 
$150,000 equivalent shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Sub-project and 
the commune to carry it out, including a description of the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the 
Sub-loan. 
(c)
Except as the Bank and CFC shall otherwise agree, applications and 
requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be 
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1997.
Sub-project Arrangements
1.
The communes selected to carry out the Sub-projects shall promptly enter into 
written arrangements with CFC, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
pursuant to which CFC shall,
inter alia, obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and CFC, 
including the right of CFC to:
(a)
require the commune to carry out and operate the Sub-project with due 
Page  6
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;
(b)
require that:
 
(i)
the works, goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall 
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being 
taken also of other relevant 
factors such as time of delivery, 
efficiency and reliability of the goods, 
availability 
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor and, in the case of 
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; 
provided, however, that: (A) goods and works estimated to cost more than 
the 
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, shall be procured on the 
basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank, and: 
(1) all bids shall be opened in public and bidders' representatives 
shall be allowed to be present; (2) criteria for evaluating bids shall be set 
out 
clearly and communicated to all bidders; and (3) foreign 
companies shall not be 
required to be incorporated in Cameroon 
in order to participate in the bidding; and 
(B) goods and works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers and 
contractors eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii)
Such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of the 
Sub-project;
 
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly, with representatives of the Bank and CFC 
if the Bank and CFC shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
obtain all such information as the Bank or CFC shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the commune carrying out
the Sub-project, if appropriate, and to the benefits to be derived therefrom; and
(e)
suspend or terminate the right of the commune carrying out the 
Sub-project to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such commune to 
perform its obligations under its arrangements with CFC.
2.
CFC shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such manner as 
to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and CFC; (ii) comply with its obligations 
under this Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
