Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9238
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 2064-PE)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribi.tion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Inti (I/.)*
Average Market Rates for Period
End of 1981        US$1         0.42 Intis
End of 1982        US$1   3    0.70 Intis
End of 1983        US$1         1.63 Intis
End of 1984        US$1         3.47 Intis
End of 1985        US$1        10.98 Intis
End of 1986        US$1        13.95 Intis
End of 1987        US$1   =   16.70 Intis
End of 1988        US$1   =  128.83 Intis
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCR       -    Banco Central de Reserva del Peru (Central Bank)
BIP       -    Banco Industria del Peru (Industrial Bank of Peru)
COFIDE    -    Co-poracion Financiera de Desarrollo (Development
Finance Cornoration)
CONADE    -    Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo
DFC       -    Development Finance Company
FOPINAR   -    Fondo de Fomento para la Pequena Industria y la Artesania
ICSA      -    Inversiones COFIDE S.A.
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
PROPEM    -    Programa de Apoyo Multisectorial a la Pequena Empresa
(Multisectoral Development Program for SSEs)
SME       -    Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
SSE       -    Small Scale Enterprise
TRB       -    Tasa de Redescuento Bancario (Central Bank Rediscount Rate)
GOVERNMENT OF PERU FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
*Note: The new Government that took office in 1985 changed the currency
unit from the Sol (S/.) to the Inti (I/.). One Inti is equivalent
to 1,000 Soles.



FOR OFFICIAL USS ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
waShington. OC 20433
US A
OnKi  ni O.eCgW-Ce,v
Opg'vatt, IvahitniEi
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Peru
Small Scale Enterprise Project (Loan 2064-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Peru - Small Scale Enterprise Project (Loan 2064-PE)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restncted distnbution and may be used by maCpienlts oniy in the pefformanc
of thetir officil dutwL Its contents maUy not otherwtse be discilsod nthoxut WoM Bankt autbhotioz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
,LOAN 2064-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...............   .......^...................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .iii
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
A. Project Identity .1
B. Background .1
C. Project Objectives and Description.                             3
D. Project Design and Organization.                                5
E. Project Implementation.                                         6
F. Project Results.                                                7
G. Project Sustainability.                                         8
H. Bank Performance.                                               8
I. Borrower Performance.                                           9
J. Project Relationship ...........................               10
K. Project Documentation and Data .......................         10
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .11
1. Related Bank Loans .11
2. Project Timetable .12
3. Loan Disbursements ......          .................           13
4. Status of Covenants .14
5. Use of Bank Resources .21
ANNEXES
1.  COFIDE:  Subproject Distribution and Profile .23
2.  COFIDE:  Subproject Employment Generation .26
3.  COFIDE:  Use of Loan Funds Through Financial Intermediaries              29
4.  COFIDE:  Interest Rates Charged by Financial Intermediaries
and Commercial Rates    ..31
5.  COFIDE:  Comparative Balance Sheets, 1981-1988 .32
6.  COFIDE:  Income Statements, 1981-1988 .33
7.  COFIDE:  Financial Ratios, 1981-1988 .34
This document ha- a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients onlk in the performance
ol their official duties It% contents ma_ not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authoril7ation



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 2064-PE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Complet' . Report (PCR) for the Small Scale
Enterprise (SSE) Project in Peru, fot which Loan 2064-PE, in the amount of
US$26.0 million equivalent was approved on December 8, 1981.   Under the
project, the Borrower, Banco Central de Reserva del Peru (BCR), used
Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo, S.A. (COFIDE) as an apex unit to
channel the SSE funds to multiple retail financial institutions.  Implemen-
tation took place during a period of severe economic recession, increasing
unemployment,  and accelerated inflation.   The loan, therefore, disbursed
slower than expected, even though fixed onlending rates became negative as
inflation occelerated. The loan was closed on December 31, 1987, two years
behind schedule. A total of US$752,000 was cancelled.
This PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance and Industry Division,
Country Department IV of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office.
The Bank suspended disbursements to Peru on May 5, 1987, based on Peru's
accrued non-payment of obligations.   Preparation of this PCR was delayed
mainly because, following the suspension of disbursements, resources for work
on Peru were limited.   Preparation of Part II was requested from the
Borrower. But, given the time elapsed since closing of the loan and the fact
that many of the Borrower's staff involved in managing the project have
retired or moved to new assignments, Part II was not completed.
Preparation of this PCR has not involved a mission to Peru.  It is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, a survey of SSEs carried outr by the Bank in December 1986, and
internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department.   The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but none were received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 2064-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       While the US$26 million loan to  the  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru
(BCR), to be executed by Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo, S.A. (COFIDE),
was designed as a credit line with objectives to provide term czedit for small
scale enterprises (SSEs) and to finance technical assistance, the creation of a
more competitive environment for SSE term lending through improvements in
interest rate policy and broader financial intermediary participation was also
envisaged. More specifically, objectives were to: (i) generate new employment
opportunities; (ii) contribute to decentralization of economic activity by
providing more term credit to areas outside Lima: (iii) involve the commercial
banks in providing term credit for small scale industrial investment; (iv)
support the Government and BCR's efforts to eliminate subsidized interest rates
and standardize financial terms and conditions for SSE lending; and (v) provide
technical assistance resources to COFIDE to support its overall institutional
development  and  to  upgrade   the   SSE   lending  capabilities  of  financial
intermediaries. The loan assigne' US$25.25 million to the credit component and
US$750,000 for technical assistance.
Implementation and Results
2.       The loan was approved on  December  8,  1981, and declared effective on
August 17,  1982.    The  loan's  pr..ncipal  objectives  as  a  credit line were
achieved, i.e., sound projects to SSEs were financed by Bank funds through
multiple retail financial institutions. However, the actual implementation took
longer than expected. The final commitment date was postponed three times by one
year at a time and the closing date was extended twice. Both economic and
institutional factors affected the pace of loan commitments and disbursements:
(i) COFIDE's financial crisis at the start-up of the project diverted the
attention of its senior management from the establishment within COFIDE of the
Small Scale Enterprise unit (Programa de Apoyo Multisectorial a la Pequena
Empresa - PROPEM) which was to administer the loan resources. PROPEM was not
fully  staffed  and  prepared  to   operate  until  almost  seven  months  after
effectiveness. T-e first disbursements were made in the last quarter of FY83,
one year later  than  anticipated.    During  loan  implementation,  the lack of
training of PROPEM's staff and inadequate policies and operating procedures
contributed to operational delays; and (ii) the deep economic recession of
1982-84 and the reduction in the spread to the intermediaries after the BCR
introduced a new interest rate structure in 1985, affected demand by SSEs for
credit to expand capacity or inventories. The loan was closed on December 31,
1987, two years later than initially estimated.
3.       COFIDE used US$25.25 million in loan funds to finance 1,978 subprojects.
The project did favor small scale enterprises as had been intended: 48* of the
subloans by number were below US$10,000; 34Z were in the size range of
US$10,000-US$40,000; and 18? were more  than US$40,oor  -d less than US$200,000.



- iv -
Thirty percent of the subloans consisted of new investments; 702 were expansion
and modenmizati-.n.   Given  the  small: size  of  the  maximum subloan under the
project (US$200,000) detailed Bank review of subptojects took place ex-post on a
sample basis during supervision missions.   To enhance quality control, the Bank
carried out a survey of 117 sample SSEs, in June 1986. when the loan was 872
disbursed. Results of the survey were that the loan implementation was generally
successful: (i) the project generated 10,562 new SSE jobs at a cost of about
US$6,000 per job; (ii) nineteen commercial banks and ten development finance
companies  channeled  the  resources  to   SSEs,  thus  resulting  in  increased
competition between financial insti.utions and better service to SSEs. The
participating regional banks and the large network of regional branch offices of
commercial banks allowed 542 of the term resources to be channeled to areas
outside Lima; and (iii) arrears or the PROPEM loans were orly 3Z.
4.       The lonn was less successful  in implementing the broad-based objective
of seeking a more competitive environment for SSE term lending. The Bank
required  improvements  in  interest  rate   policy   as  a  condition  of  loan
effectiveness. Thus, initially, the resources were channeled by the financial
intermediaries at the maximum commercial interest rate on subloans made by such
entities. During the second year of loan implementation the onlending rates fell
below the commercial rates and the prevailing rates for similar term loans, such
as the Inter-American Development Bank's (IDB) SSE credit line to the Banco
Industrial del Peru  (BIP).    COFIDE  a.d  the  Banco  Central de Reserva (BCR)
violated the financial loan covenants by: (i) not meeting to exchange views on
the adequacy of the interest rates to be charled on the subloans, as a function
of the rediscount banking rate and the maximum regulated commercial interest
rate; and (ii) not informing the financial intermediaries that the loan required
an adjustment of their onlending rates to the maximum regulated commercial
interest rates. The Bank had to monitor continuously interest rate performance
and broach the subject with COFIDE and the BCR. When the onlending rates became
negative and grounds for suspension became clear, while Bank miu ions called
this event to the attention of BCR authorities, the Bank was faced with the
difficulty of using suspension - the Bank's remedy for violation of loan
covenants - as the ultimate weapon.    The  project design did not provide other
tools to ensure long-term improvements in interest rate policy.
5.       Performance of the technical  assistance component was satisfactory. Of
the technical assistance resources of US$750,000, a total of US$545,000 were
used to serve the project's aim oi providing quality services to an expanding
SSE client base by strengthening the organization and staffiLng capabilities of
COFIDE and of the financial intermediaries.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.       The design of this first Bank  SSE  operation  in Peru was based on the
underlying premise that apex credit delivery systems that involve multiple
retail financial institutions are better suited than credit lines channeled
through single financial institutions to intermediate a large number of small
loans and, through the network of intermediaries, to provide good customer
service to its borrowers. In the Bank's recent review* of the performance of 70
Small and Medium Scale (SME) projects in 36 countries, spanning a fifzeen year
period, the approach to the provision of credit of the Peruvian SSE loan is
highlighted as a success. The report also concludes that, comparing actual
outcomes to projected outcomes, this SSE loan achieved all of its objectives,
i.e., subloans were small, the number of jobs created at low costs surpassed
expectations, and the subloan repayment rate was high.
1/ Worlu Bank Lending for Small and Medium Enterprises: Fifteen Years of
Experience, PPR, 1989.



- v 
7.       COFIDE had been a model devetcpment  finance company (DFC) in the 1970s
in Latin America. The Bank had already completed a First Industrial Credit
Project (Loan 1358-PE) and had initiated a Second Industrial Credit Project
(Loan 1968-PE) through COFIDE. However, in hindsight, the strategic choice of
COFIDE as the apex unit  backfired.    The optimal roles and responsibilities of
apex units depend mostly on the experience and competence of the retail banks in
lending to SSEs, and on their ability to establish their credentials as SSE
lenders in the financial markets. Where banks are inexperienced or of dubious
competence, the more successful apex units in the Bank's experience have taken
active roles in promoting the program, training loan officers in participating
retail banks, and ensuring that the system functions efficiently. In this case,
COFIDE's fulfillment of its apex unit role was mixed--although a wide financial
intermediation was indeed accomplished- under the loan, COFIDE failed to provide
PROPEM with autonomv to carry out its role as an independent project entity
which would not only channel the loan's resources through a network of
intermediaries but also take a lead role in strengthening the staffing
capabilities of financial and technical assistance institutions to provide
quality  services  to  an  expanding  SSE   client  base.    Today,  PROPEK has
disappeared. and the BIP continues to be the main SSE lender.
8.       Early in loan implementation (July  1983), the Bank found that COPIDE's
senior  management  was  fully   engaged   in   attempting  to  handle  COFIDE's
overwhelming financial problems and could find little time to focus on the
problems  of  the  SSE  operation.    These  had  two  aspects  -  operating and
institutional.   Getting  PROPEM  to  operate  efficiently  and transforming the
project unit from a discount facility to an efficient lending and assistance
fund was a constant theme throughout the Bank's supervision. The Bank addressed
the staffing and procedural problems affecting the internal efficiency of the
PROPEM unit by recommending that PROPEK's Chief be trained in FOPINAR. one of
the  Bank's  model  SSE  development  funds  within  the  Corporacion Financiera
Nacional, in Ecuador. On the institutional issues, the Bank sought to: (i)
establish PROPEK as a project entity with a separate budget, financial goals and
responsibilities; (ii) broaden PROPEM's technical assistance role to develop
programs to assist SSE project participants; and (iii) develop loan supervision
systems   and   improved   training   programs   for   participating   financial
intermediaries.
9.       There are  lessons  to  be  learned  from  COFIDE's poor implementation
performance: (i) operating priorities and management of the project unit cannot
be divorced from the financial strength of the institution, i.e., the Bank
failed to see that, as in the case in Ecuador and Mexico, an SSE fund's
development role flourishes when housed in financially sound institutions which
want to carve a niche in the market; and (ii) the success of loan implementation
depends on the willingness of the Borrower to carry out the Bank's objectives,
but these, in turn, have to take into consideration the benefits and risks to
the Borrower.   For  example,  COFIDE  incurred  a  two-year  delay in providing
external training to  PROPEM's  chief  executive.    It  was clear that COFIDE's
financial problems were overwhelming and could not focus its attention on
PROPEM, but also, the project design did not help the Borrower to achieve the
Bank's objectives.   The  technical  assistance  funds  were  denominated in the
Bank's currencies of disbursements, wheteas the credit component resources were
in soles. In a period of rapid devaluation of the sol, neither the BCR nor
COFIDE were reluctant to enter into a liability which would imply a foreign
exchange risk.



- vi -
Proiect Sustainabilitv
10.      SSE lending reverted to  the  BIP  and wider participation of financial
institutions in SSE lending ended with the project. The expected benefits of the
project are therefore not being realized.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 2064-PE)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.       Project Identity
1.       Name                         Small Scale Enterprise Project
Loan Number                 2064 - PE
RVP Unit                    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country                     Peru
Sector                      Finance and Industry
B.       Backgroundl
2.       During the 1970s, the Peruvian  economy  went through a period of rapid
growth fueled by expansionary fiscal and credit policies (1968 to 1976), a
serious financial and balance of payments crisis followed by a recessionary
period (1977  to  1979),  and  the  incipient  stages  of  an  ec'  .mic recovery
(starting in late 1979). The cyclical nature of the economic activity during the
1970s is reflected in the growth of GDP, which averaged 4.3Z p.a. during the
1968-76 period, dropping to minus 0.32 p.a. in 1977-78, and recovering to 3.42
p.a. in 1979-80. With slow economic growth and a rapidly growing population
(2.72 p.a.), the country's per capita income virtually stagnated during the late
1970s and was US$930 in 1980 as compared to US$910 in 1970 (at constant 1980
prices). The economic crisis of the late 1970s and the high population growth
rate had worsened a traditionally serious unemployment problem. At the time of
appraisal, it was estimated that 11Z of the non-agricultural labor force was
unemployed.
3.       The behaviour of industrial  output  and investment followed the swings
of economic act3vity: after a decrease in industrial output and investment
during 1977 and 1978, industrial production recovered slightly (4.1Z) in 1979
and grew more strongly (5.92) in 1980. This recovery, however, had not changed a
situation of very low levels of industrial employment. While manufacturing
contributed an estimated 27% of the country's GDP in 1980, total employment in
the formal manufacturing sector amounted to only 5-6Z of total employment.
Adding an estimated equal number of jobs in the informal sector, the total
contribution to employment remained in the 10-12Z range.
1/ Based on PERU: Policies to Stop Hyperinflation and Initiate Economic
Recovery. A World Bank Country Study, April 1989.



4.       Prior to  1978,  Peru  followed  the  import  substitution  approach to
industrial development providing high tariff protection--supplemented by import
restrictions for a large number of products--generous fiscal incentives (up to
85% of tax exemptions), and credit on relatively favorable conditions. This
policy framework stimulated the developmenr of import substitution industries
with low domestic value added, low productivity, and low capacity utilization.
Although export incentives in the form of negotiable export tax credit
certificates (CERTEX) were introduced on a small scale in 1970, industrial
development was inward-oriented and manufactured PAports were relatively minor,
amounting to roughly one pcrcent of industrial ouw)ut.
5.       A major reorientation of  industrial  policies took place in connection
with the 1978 Economic Recovery Program, which was supported by a Bank Program
Loan.    The  complex   system   of  non-tariff  protection  (import  licensing,
prohibitions, state monopolies, and, in particular, the National Register of
Manufactures (RNM), which consisted of a list of industries maintained in the
Ministry of Industry--imports competing with goods produced by industries on the
list were banned) was dismantled and replaced by a new tariff system which
became effective in December 1979. In addition, more vigorous export promotion
efforts were undertaken along with a more flexible exchange rate policy. These
policy changes, together with falling domestic demand in the late 1970s,
resulted in an important reorientation of industrial development, with the value
of manufactured exports increasing from about 1.6Z of industrial output in 1976
to almost 8% of industrial output in 1980. Textiles and fish products accounted
for most of this increase.
6.       General elections in  1979  brougnat  back  a  ci"vlian Government whose
official economic tenet jas free markets and free prices. Small scale industry
was expected to participate vigorously in Peru's economic and industrial growth.
Preliminary indications at the time of appraisal were that small scale industry
had benefitted from the new import liberalization process. SSEs were able to
purchase many imported raw materials and intermediate goods at iower prices than
those that persisted when local manufacturing was practically the only source of
supply. The recovery was, however, short lived: the new Government embarked on
bulky infrastructural investments that complicated macroeconomic management,
more so in the face of declining terms of trade, internationpl recession, and an
increasingly overvalued exchange rate. These problems culminated with the drying
up of external voluntary lending, particularly after the onset of the Mexican
debt crisis in 1982. GDP plummeted by 12Z in 1983 and inflation doubled to more
than 100%. In response, the Government reversed the import liberalization
process.
7.       In 1984, upon the  impossibility  of  reaching  an agreement on foreign
debt rescheduling and fresh financing with creditors, the Government engaged in
a policy of undeclared a-rears. In 1984-85, steps were taken to stabilize the
economy by means of active exchange rate depreciation, frequent adjustment to
prices and some reduction of public expenditure. These measures failed to
stabilize inflationary pressures and economic growth slowed down. The new
administration that took office in mid-1985, followed a completely different
economic strategy oriented to quick economic recovery by bolstering consumption
demand and using  existing  idle  capacity.    Consumption  demand was fueled by
increasing real wages, tax cuts, and freezing state enterprises' prices and
tariffs. The use of idle capacity was promoted by closing the domestic market to
competing imports and establishing multiple exchange rates and interest rate
subsidies. The initial response of the economy was an unparalleled output and



- 3 -
employment expansion in 1986 and 1987.   This growth was achieved at the .xpense
of growing financial and external imbalances. In 1987, when disbursemelits of all
loans to Peru were suspended because of non-payment to the Bank, inflation had
picked up to 115% per  year.    In  July  1987,  the new Government attempted to
nationalize the commercial banks, finance firms, and insurance companies on the
grounds of democratizing credit allocation and breaking the links between
financial groups and credit institutions.   Beginning in 1988, Peru entered in a
hyperinflationary  process  whose   consequences   have  beent  (i)  progressive
reduction of economic activity (accumulated reduction of 30% of GDP); (ii)
increasing financial disintermediation (saver's financial assets dropped from
20% to 52 of GDP); and (iii) virtual collapse of public sector revenues.
C.       Project Objectives and Descrip"ion
8.       While this project was designed  as  a  credit line which would provide
term credit for small scale enterprises and finance technical assistance, the
creation of a more competitive environment for SSE term lending through
improvements  in  interest  rate   policy  and  broader  financial  intermediary
participation was also envisaged. The    newness,  small size, lack of political
and social clout of many small entrepreneurs, and the perception of higher risks
in SSE lending by  many  bankers  oftelL  have  precluded  credit access by small
firms. Thus, the line of credit was to establish a second-tier apex system to
channel the resources through multiple retail financia'l institutions (typically
a mix of commercial banks and development finance companies) to SSEs. More
specifically, objectives were to: (i) generate new employnment opportunities;
(ii) contribute to decentralization of economic activity by providing mort term
credit to areas outside Lima; (iii) involve the commercial banks in providing
term credit for small scale  indust,ial  investment; (iv) support the Government
and BCR's efforts to eliminate subsidized interest rates and standardize
financial terms and conditions for SSE lending; and (v) provide technical
assistance resources to COFIDE to support its overall institutional development
and to upgrade the SSE lending capabilities of financial intermediaries. To
achieve these ends, the loan consisted of a US$26.0 million equivalent line of
credit to BCR, to be executed by COFIDE, to finance the foreign exchange
component of an estimated 1,500 subprojecCs, and a technical assistance program
(US$750,000 of loan funds) to upgrade the capabilities of the staff of COFIDE
and of financial intermediaries.
9.       Credit Component. Eligible  enterprises  included  firms  other than an
agricultural or livestock enterprise, with annual sales of up to US-$750,000
equivalent, and fixed assets, excluding land, of up to US$300,000 equivalent.
The broad definition included firms, legally defined in Peru as SSEs, engaged in
industrial, tourist services and commercial activities, as well as agroindustry,
fishing, forestry, construction, and mining operations. Loan resources would
finance investments in fixed assets, related working capital, and permanent
working capital for utilization of installed idle capacity. The maximum
investment eligible for financing under the project would be US$200,000; the
maximum subloan would be US$180,000, including US$100,000 of Bank funds. It was
expected that the average subloan size would be about US$25,000. Given the
small size and large number of subprojects that was expected under the project,
based in great measure on the BIP's own lending practices to SSEs, COFIDE set up
an  automatic  discount  mechanism,   with  simplified  appraisal  criteria  and
processing procedures: free limits were developed by type of intermediary (for
the BIP US$100,000 based on its extensive experience and capabilities in SSE
lending; US$70,000 for other development, commercial and regional banks, and



development finance companies; US$40,000 for credit cooperatives and other
intermediaries. COFIDE was expected to review from 5-10% of the subprojects.
Detailed Bank review of subprojects was to take place ex-post on a sample basis
during supervision missions. COFIDE would refinance 90% of the loans made by
intermediaries for fixed assets and permanent working capital. For this loan
disbursement category, Bank participation would be limited to a maximum of 50X
of  the  investment.   In   principle,   all  financial  intermediaries  legally
established in Peru and in good standing with the BCR which would meet the
eligibility  conditions  -  regarding  sound  financial  practices  and  project
appraisal  capabilities  -  set   forth   in  COFIDE's  policies  for  financial
intermediation, would be eligible to participate in the operation.
10.      The Bank loan was made  to  BCR  for  15 years, including four years of
grace, at a fixed interest rate of  11.62  p.a.   The BCR would onlend to COFIDE
the equivalent in soles of the US$25.25 million of the Bank loan intended for
SSE financing and an additional amount equivalent in soles to US$10 million from
its own resources, for 15 years, including four years of grace, at the
prevailing Central Bank discount rate (Tasa de Redescuento Bancario - TRB). In
ordeL to maintain the real value of the Bank funds to be onlent by BCR in soles,
the BCR would semi-annually adjust the amount of its commitment to COFIDE,
expressed in soles, to be financed out of such Bank funds. This adjustment
would be equivalent to any difference that developed due to variations in the
exchange rate during the previous six months in the amount of soles equivalent
to the Bank loan not yet  repaid.    In  effect,  this scheme would be a form of
indexing that would assure that the soles value of the disbursed and outstanding
resources of the proposed Bank loan remain equivalent to the foreign currencies
being held by the BCR throughout the life of the loan.
11.      A cumbersome  matrix  was  set  up  for  COFIDE's  onlending  rates and
spreads.    COFIDE  was  to  refinance   or  discount  loans  made  by  eligible
inte-mediaries for the same periods as the loans received by SSEs, and at a rate
equivalent to the TRB plus 2% for loans up to US$10,000 equivalent, TRB plus 3Z
for loans between US$10,000 and US$40,000, and TRB plus 4Z for loans above
US$40,000, all payable monthly.    This  was  to  provide  COFIDE with a nominal
spread of about 3% on average (an effective spread of about 4.4z). The
differential rates to intermediaries would allow intermediaries a higher spread
on the smaller loans which would be more costly to evaluate and process, and to
COFIDE a higher spread on larger loans which would be above COFIDE's free limits
to intermediaries and would thus require further appraisal by COFIDE. The higher
spread on smaller loans was also expected to provide intermediaries with an
incentive for lending to the smaller enterprises among SSEs.
12.      Eligible intermediaries would onlend Bank and BCR resources to SSEs for
periods rangirg between two and ten years, including a grace period of up to
three years for fixed assets and associated working capital investment; and for
periods of one and a half to five years, including a grace period of up to two
years for permanent working capital investments. Interest rates would be up to
the prevailing maximum rate allowed for term lending. These rates would be
positive in real terms, and would allow intermediaries a nominal spread in the
range of 8-10%, to allow the intermediary a profit after covering estimated
processing and risk costs of some 7Z to 8% depending on loan size. The loan
would provide the only long-term resource available in local currency for the
industrial sector with attractive spreads for intermediaries.
13.      Technical Assistance. At the request  of COFIDE, a US$750,000 technical
assistance component was added to the loan to finance the foreign exchange costs



- 5 -
of a US$900,000 program which would essentially consist of three elements: (i)
training of the staff of COFIDE and financial intermediaries on project
appraisal and lending techniques, including a comprehensive training program for
loan officers of financial intermediaries dealing with SSEs; (ii) a young
executive  development   program   within   COFIDE,   including   training  with
international banks, both in Peru and overseas, and scholarships for post-
graduate studies abroad; and (iii) training of middle level executives of the
Financial Resources Division in foreign resource mobilization and cofinancing.
In July 1980, COFIDE was assigned the role of major wholesaler of term
resources, both local and foreign. COFIDE also became the financial agent for
medium- and long-term foreign borrowings of public enterprises. Thus, COFIDE
believed  that   the   technical   assistance   program   would  strengthen  its
institutional development and allow COFIDE to play a more important and
effective  role  in  fostering  broader  financial  intermediation.    The  loan
resources for technical assistance were to be onlent by the BCR to COFIDE in the
same currencies and on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. Because
of the adjustment scheme envisaged in the credit component and the difference in
currency, terms, and conditions between the credit and the technical assistance
components, agreement was reached on the BCR keeping separate accounts (a total
of four) for the loan and on a yearly audit of such accounts.
D.       Project Design and Organization
14.      The design of this first Bank  SSE  operation  in Peru was based on the
underlying premise that, as measured by smaller subloan sizes, higher job
creation rates with lower costs, and higher subloan repayment rates, apex credit
delivery systems that invelve multiple retail financial institutior.s are far
more  effective   than   credit   lines   channeled   through  single  financial
institutions. For many years, the BIP was practically the only financial
institution channeling term resources to SSEs (funded mostly by the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), and through a special program targeted to the
rural SSEs, supported by  USAID  resources).    In  the  late 1970s, the BIP had
suffered from an inadequate organization, over-staffing, and deficiencies in its
resource mobilization side, owing mostly to low cost resources being made
readily available by the Government for financing SSEs at subsidized interest
rates. On the lending side. however, and particularly lending to SSEs, the BIP
had developed a high degree of operational and institutional competence. The
only major weaknesses in the lending side were cumbersome loan appraisals, where
a much higher degree of thoroughness and quality was required by the BIP than
the smaller loans would merit, and lengthy and time consuming procedures.
Because the term resources of the loan were to be made available to other
financial intermediaries cn equal terms and conditions, it was expected that the
BIP would be motivated to improve the efficiency of its lending operations,
particularly in the loan application processing.
15.      The new Government that took office  ir, mid-1980 had adopted a strategy
for COFIDE that was intended to change fundamentally its role in the new decade:
COFIDE would divest itself of its frozen investments in industries nationalized
through  1979   and   concentrate   on   development   banking  functions.  This
reorientation of COFIDE's activities had been an issue raised by the Bank
throughout the life of the First Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1358-PE) and
during loan preparation of the Second Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1968-PE),
a loan which was to complement the SSE project. COFIDE would expand its lending
operations to the private sector and increase its coverage of that sector by
channeling increasing amounts of term capital, particularly foreign resources,
through financial intermediaries.    To  this  end,  COFIDE's Board of Directors



introduced organizational changes in September 1980 which included the creation
of a new Financial Intermediaries Division, partly staffed with personnel
experienced in dealing with intermediaries as a result of the transfer to COFIDE
in the same year, of four specialized funds operated by the BCR. In light of
the institutional reorganization, the Bank chose COFIDE as the executing agency
for the project. For the management of the project, a special unit (PROPEM) was
created in the Financial Intermediation Division.
16.      In hindsight,  the  selection  of  COFIDE  as  the  apex  unit  had its
shortcomings. The optimal roles and responsibilities of apex units depend
mostly on the experience and competence of the retail banks in lending to SSEs,
and on their ability to establish its credentials as ar SSE lender in the
financial markets. Where banks are inexperienced or of dubious competence, the
more successful apex units in the Bank's experience have taken active roles in
promoting the program, training loan officers in participating retail banks, and
ensuring  that  the  system  functions   efficiently.  In  this  case,  COFIDE's
fulfillmer.t of its apex unit role was mixed--although a wide financial
intermediation was indeed accomplished under the loan, COFIDE failed to take a
lead role in strengthening the staffing capabilities of financial and technical
assistance institutions to provide quality services to an expanding SSE client
baae. With no autonomy from COFIDE to design credit programs that meet the
needs of retail banks and SSE clients, and although PROPEM's staff was
eventually trained in Ecuador by FOPINAR, one of the Bank's model SSE apex
units, the transformation from viewing its role as a discount facility to an SSE
development credit facility never achieved its full potential. Today, PROPEM has
disappeared, and the BIP continues to be the main SSE lender. If the Bank's
objectives were really aimed at "assisting COFIDE in financing such productive
facilities and resources in Peru as will contribute to the economic and social
development of the country", and taking into account the newness of COFIDE's
role as a wholesale financier for the sector, there may have been more benefits
in establishing the apex system instead at the BIP, with long experience in SSE
lending.
E.       Project Implementation
17.      The loan was approved on  December  8,  1981, and declared effective on
August 17, 1982, with no significant delays (two months). To comply with its
broad-based   objectives   of   eliminating   subsidized   4.nterest   rates  and
standardizing financial terms and conditions for SSE lending, as a condition of
loan effectiveness the Bank required the BCR to issue the necessary resolution
to exempt commercial and regional banks from provisions of the banking law,
prohibiting them to engage in term lending operations, and to authorize them to
approve loans of up to  ten  years.    The BCR also authorized commercial banks,
regional banks, and savings associations which would participate in the SSE
project, as well as an IDB Project No. 377, to charge maximum commercial
interest rates for long-term lending.
18.      The  actual  implementation  took   much   longer  than  expected.  The
commitment end date was postponed three times from December 31, 1984 to March
31, 1985, to June 30, 1986, and finally to June 30, 1987. The closing date was
extended twice between December 31, 1985 and December 31, 1987. An amount of
US$752,000  was  cancelled  from  the   loan  account  in  February  1987.  When
disbursements to Peru were suspended in May 1987, for non-payment of its
cbligations, the loan was fully disbursed.
19.      Both economic  and  institutional  factors  affected  the  pace of loan
commitments and disbursements: (i) COFIDE's financial crisis at the start-up of



-7-
the  project  diverted  the  attention   of   its  senior  management from the
establishment of the Small Scale Industry t'nit (PROPEM) which would administer
the loan resources. Thus, PROPEM was not fully staffed and prepared to operate
until almost seven months  after  effectiveness.    The first disbursements were
made in the last quarter of FY83, one year later than anticipated. During loan
implementation, the lack of training of PROPEM's staff and inefficient operating
policies and procedures contributed to operational delays. These delays, which
averaged 4 to 5 months, resulted, in turn, in reduced foreign exchange receipts
by the BCR as the sal value of subloans relative to the dollar declined by 40?
between the time of FOPINAR disbursement and Bank disbursement; and (ii) the
deep economic recession of 1982-84 affected demand by SSEs for credit to expand
capacity or inventories. The loan was closed on December 31, 1987, two years
later than initially estimated.
F.       Project Results
20.      The loan's principal objectives as a credit line were achievedt (i) the
project generated 10,562 new SSE jobs at a cost of about US$6,000 per job; (4i)
participating regional banks and the large network of regional branch offices of
commercial banks allowed 542  of  the  term  resources  to be channeled to areas
outside  Lima.  thus  contributing   to  further  decentralization  of  economic
activity; (iii) nineteen commercial banks and ten development finance companies
channeled the resources to SSEs, thus resulting in increased competition between
financial institutions and better service to SSEs. Of these, the BIP accounted
for 652 of operations and 342 of total resources used; and (iv) arrears on the
PROPEH loans were only 3Z.    Statistics  on  subloans are shown in Annexes 1-3.
COFIDE used US$25.3 million in  loan  funds  to  finance 1,978 subprojects.  The
project did favor small scale enterprises as had been intended: 48Z of the
subloans   were   below   US$10,000;   34Z   were   in   the   size   range   of
USSlO,O00-US$40.000; and 182 were  more  than  US$40,000.  Thirty percent of the
subloans consisted of new investments; 702 were expansion and modernization. The
subsectoral distribution showed that about 502 of the resources went to four
subsectors--textiles,   food    processing,    services    and   commerce,   and
metalmechanics.  Given the small size  of  the maximum subloan under the project
(US$180,000) detailed Bank review of subprojects took place ex-post on a sample
basis during supervision missions.  To enhance quality control, the Bank carried
out a survey of 117 sample SSEs, in 1986, when the loan was 852 disbursed.
Results  of  the  survey  were   that  the  loan  implementation  was  generally
successful.  Some questions regarding  economic  and social gains were, however,
raised by the financing of service and commercial companies.
21.      The loan was less successful  in implementing the broad-based objective
of seeking  improvements  in  interest  rate  policy.    Because improvements in
interest rate policy were a condition of loan effectiveness, initially the
resources were channeled by the financial intermediaries at the current
allowable commercial interest rate on subloans made by such entities. During the
second year of loan implementation, the onlending rates fell below the
commercial rates and the prevailing rates for similar term loans, such as the
Inter-American Development Bank's (IDB) SSE credit line to the Banco Industrial
del Peru (BIP). The Bank had to monitor continuously interest rate performance
and broach the subject with BCR, with limited success. Although progress was
achieved in reducing subsidies, the design of the project did not provide the
necessary tools for achieving long-term interest rate policy improvements.
22.      Performance of the technical assistance component was satisfactory.  Of
the technical assistance resources of US$750,000, a total of $545,000 were used
to serve the project's aim of providing quality services to an expanding.SSE



client base by strengthening the organization and staffing capabilities of
COFIDE and of the financial intermediaries.   The technical assistance resources
were used to finance scholarships abroad and to carry out training courses in
Finance and Development in Peru.   Although the resources were used, there were,
however, some disappointing aspects: (i) whereas the credit component resources
were denominated in soles, the technical assistance funds were denominated in
the Bank's currencies of disbursements. In a period of rapid devaluation of the
sol, the BCR and COFIDE were reluctant to enter a liability; (ii) poor
implementation by COFIDE, which failed to provide PROPEM with the autonomy to
coordinate the technical assistance activities, and incurred a two-year delay in
providing external training for PROPEM's chief executive; and (iii) inadequate
project preparation on the Bank's part.
G.       Proiect Sustainability
23.      By the time the loan  was  closed,  at  the  end  of 1987, the Bank had
suspended disbursements to Peru and COFIDE's capability to mobilize foreign or
local resources had long since dried  up.    On the other hand, other sources of
financing of private sector activities in Peru also disappeared, as a result of
growing financial repressions that culminated with the nationalization of
commercial banks in mid-1987. SSE lending reverted to the BIP and wider
participation of financial institutions ended with the project. The expected
benefits of the project are therefore not being sustained.
H.       Bank Performance
Z4.      During preparation and appraisal, Bank staff worked closely with COFIDE
on the preparation of a set of policies and a comprehensive operations manual to
govern  SSE  lending  ("Proyecto   de   Creacion   de  un  Programa  de  Credito
ultisectorial para la Pequena  Empresa").    Under  the Loan 1968-PE, Bank staff
worked closely with COFIDE on a policy statement for financial intermediation
that would guide COFIDE's lending through other financial intermediaries. The
Bank also worked closely with the BCR on interest rate policy improvements. The
Bank was overly optimistic about the sustainability of measures the BCR took as
a condition of effectiveness of the SSE loan.
25.      The Bank made a considerable  supervision effort with this loan: twelve
supervision missions between 1982 and 1987 using a total of 30 staff weeks.
During project implementation, the maj,   problems affecting this loan were: (i)
COFIDE's financial crisis at the start      of the project diverted the attention
of its senior management from the establishment of PROPEM, which would
administer the loan resources; (ii) during loan implementation PROPEM did not
fully achieve its potential; (iii) deep economic recession of 1982-84 and the
reduction in the spread to the financial intermediaries after the BCR introduced
a new interest rate structure in 1985, affected demand by SSEs for credit to
expand capacity or  inventories.    The  Bank  sought  to address these problems
through intensive supervision activity.
26.      COFIDE's financial situation  was  analyzed  in   etail  under the Loan
1968-PE supervision activity. During the start-up phase of this loan, Bank
supervision missions paid considerable attention to PROPEM's organization,
logistic support, and reviewed in detail procedures for sub'.oan approval and
discounted operations. Initially, the unit was indeed organized to perform
routine discount functions and  project  review.    Early in loan implementation
(July 1983), the Bank found that COFIDE's senior management was fully engaged in
attempting to handle COFIDE's overwhelming financial problems and could find
little time to focus on the problems of the SSE operations. These were two in



nature: operating issues, which could be dealt with in the short term, and major
institutional policy issues, which would require executive attention. The Bank
addressed the staffing and procedural problems affecting the internal efficiency
of the PROPEM unit by recommending that PROPEII's chief executive travel to
Ecuador to observe and participate in the operations of FOPINAR (one of the
Bank's model SSE development funds within the Corporacion Financiera Nacional)
and thus broaden his understanding of the detailed policies, procedures, budget,
supervision  methods,  and   technical   assistance  operations, which underlie
successful SSE development organizations. The training was very effective and,
finally, two and a half years after effectiveness, the administration of the
project began to show signs of improvement and disbursements accelerated.
27.      On the institutional issues, the  Bank  seeked to: (i) establish PROPEM
as a more independent project entity with a budget, financial goals and
responsibilities; (ii) broaden PROPEM's technical assistance role to develop
programs to assist SSE project participants; and (iii) develop loan supervision
systems   and   improved   training   programs   for   participating   financial
intermediaries. The transformation of PROPEM from a discount facility to an
efficient  lending  and  assistance   fund   was  a  constant  theme  throughout
supervision. Although the unit did reach a satisfactory first stage of
institutional development, its potential never materialized. The Bank failed to
see that, as is the case in Ecuador and Mexico, an SSE fund's development role
can only really be achieved whem housed in financially sound institutions. Also
a lesson learned is that technical assistance coordination requires institution
building which takes time to develop. The Bank was unrealistic in its
expectations for a newly established unit within a weak institution.
28.      The Bank recognized that there was  little to be done in the short-term
to deal with the low demand which resulted from the 1982-84 recession. On the
other hand, the Bank detected early that under the new interest rate structure
introduced by the BCR in 1985 the spreads of the financial intermediaries would
be reduced from 11-13Z to 2-3%. Also, the effective rate on PROPEM subloans was
marginally higher than the average rate on short-term commercial credit. The
Bank intervened quickly and resolved the matter.
I.       Borrower Performance
29.      Institutional Performance.  COFIDE's  operations have been dominated by
its mandate to coordinate and guarantee the financing of state enterprises.
Since the mid-1970s, COFIDE had been a holding company for a number of
nationalized  basic  industries.    By  1980,  a  large  proportion  of COFIDE's
resources were frozen in these equity holdings.   This loan was implemented as a
complement  to  Loan  1968-PE,  which   supported  the  separation  of  COFIDE's
investment portfolio  from  its  lending  operations.    Corporacion Nacional de
Desarrollo (CONADE) was created in 1981, as a holding company for COFIDE S.A.
and Inversiones COFIDE S.A. (ICSA).    The  first to continue lending operations
and the latter to hold the investment portfolio, including the basic industries.
The transfer of equity holdings to ICSA was on the basis of a loan of about US$
100 million from COFIDE to ICSA that would be repayed from the sale of these
firms to the private sector.   However, the Government's ambiguous position with
respect to privatization made ICSA unable to sell any of its companies and to
service its debt to COFIDE.    The expected reorientation of COFIDE's operations
towards the private sector did not materialize either.
30.      Financial Performance.   Up  to  1982,  COFIDE  maintained a relatively
sound financial position.    It  had  been  able  to  mobilize abundant external



- 10 -
resources, its portfolio was not yet showing large arrears problems, and it had
been  able  to  maintain  the  real   value  of  its  capital  through  periodic
revaluations of its equity  investments.    By 1983 COFIDE's financial situation
had become critical as a result of its excessive lending to and guarantees
undertaken  on  behalf  of   financially  strapped  public  sector  enterprises.
Moreover, COFIDE's loss of access to the tax free revenue bond market
substantially reduced its long term local currency resource base. Slower loan
recuperations and lower interest income from its industrial loan portfolio
further exacerbated  its  financial  problems.    COFIDE's  financial  crieis is
covered in detail in the PCR for Loan 1968-PE,
31.      Compliance with Covenants  in  the  Legal  Agreements.   COFIDE did not
comply with Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement which established that the BCR
establish four project accounts, one of which had maintenance of value
obligations. Because of Peru's deteriorating economic situation and the BCR's
restrictive monetary and budgetary program, the Bank did not enforce the
maintenance of value obligation under the covenant and granted a waiver to the
BCR. COFIDE violated two interest rate covenants: (i) Section 3.05 of the Loan
Agreement which established that the financial intermediaries should be allowed
to charge the maximum commercial  rate  on  subloans.  COFIDE and the BCR, after
Bank letter advice, complied with delays; (ii) Section 3.07 of the Loan
Agreement which established that COFIDE and the BCR meet to exchange views on
the adequacy of the interest rates to be charged on subloans as a function of
the rediscount banking rate and the commercial rate.
J.       Project Relationship
32.      The  project  period  covered   eight  years  between  preparation  and
cancellation in 1987.   During  this  period,  Bank's project officers, COFIDE's
management, PROPEM's staff, and Government teams changed. In addition, country
related problems led to suspension of disbursements of all loans to Peru. These
circumstances affected continuity in project supervision.
K.       Project Documentation and Data
33.      During the  life  of  the  loan,  COFIDE  produced  a  large  number of
documents concerning its lending program, sources and uses of funds, and
resources applied. The quality of COFIDE's financial reports and external audits
remained low, despite the Bank's efforts under Loan 1968-PE as well as under
this loan to press COFIDE to improve its financial record keeping and accounting
systems. A recurrent problem has been the discrepancies between COFIDE's annual
financial reports and the reports presented by the auditors. Only since 1984 do
audit reports present analysis of arrears in the total portfolio. Audit reports
give very superficial treatment to Bank loans. The required annual audit of the
four project accounts maintained by the BCR were not submitted.



- 11 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.       Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title          Purpose                Appr val      Status      Comments
Industrial          To support the         1976          Closed      The final closing
Credit Project      financing through                                was 6/30/83,
Loan 1358-PE        COFIDE of                                        two years later than
manufacturing and                                intially
tourism projects                                 contemplated.
US$2.9 million
of the loan was
cancelled.
Second Industrial  To support the          1981          Closed      The final closing
Credit Project      financing of                                     was 12/31/87,
Loan 1968-PE        manufacturing and                                two and a half years
tourism projects                                 later than initially
through financial                                contemplated.
intermediaries                                  US$20.3 million of
having access to                                 the loan was
Bank funds which                                 cancelled.
COFIDE would channel.
Also to support
modification of the
public sector
financial system.



- 12 -
2.                 Proiect Timetable
Date            Date               Date
Item                Planned          Revised           Actual
Identification              12/80                               12/80
(Executive Project
Summary)
Preparation                   3/81                               3/81
Appraisal Mission             5/81                               5/81
Post Appraisal                                                   8/81
Loan Negotiations         10/14/81         10/26181          10/26/81
Board Approval               12/81                           12/08/81
Loan Signature                6/82                            6/16/82
Loan Effectiveness            8/82                            8/17/82
Loan Commitment
End Date               12/31/84           3/31/85
12/31/85
6/30/86
6/30/87          6/30/87
Loan Closing              12/31/85         12/31/86          12/31/87
Cancellation Date                -                -           2/23/87
Comments:
The Bank suspended disbursements to Peru on May 5, 1987 based on Peru's
accrued non-payment of obligations to the Bank.



- 13 -
3.       Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US  '000)
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
Appraisal Estimate             1.0      7.75    18.5    26.0
Actual                         0        4.93    13.2    20.41   25.16   25.26
Actual as Z of Estimate        0        64      71       79      -        -
Date of First Disbursements                      6/20/83
Date of Last Disbursement:                       2/23/871
1/ The amount of .75 million was cancelled from the Loan on 2/23/87.



- 14 -
4.              Status ot Covenants
Description of
Covenent       _Condtion                                          Statue       Common
Loan
Agreement
1.01(d),           E;igible enterprises will be those with            Complied    Tole. of 6/19/84 stated that the Loan Agreement did not
Schedule a         annual s*lea up to USd750.000 equivalent and   with             define the term lowneda  or the term acontrolleda, thus
Part b(6)          fixed seots, exclud;ng land, of up to             clarifi-    providing tie scope needed to apply a
USD300,000 equivalent before the now               cation       common-sense approach to determining case by case basis
investment in all productive, distributive or                  whether or not an applicant for PROPcM funds is an
service activities, es-ept agriculture, but                     independent airalatsd SSE or a linked or related
including construction, and agroindustry with                  affiliate of  rmo  lorger business, financial or private
a maximum investment of US8200,000 for any                     financial or private entity.  A related enterprise would be
mingle project.                                                where a single person or member of that person's family to
the second degree of consanguinity and/or affinity owned
40% or morm of the stock of each enterprise, a single
corporate body including subsidiaries or affiliates thereof
owned 401 oa more of the stock in each enterprise, the
ownership structure or the management atructu e of one or
sore enterorises is much that in the opinion of
PROPEM the enterprises belongs to onz and the ease family.
financial or industrial group, the services, production or
product lines n two or sore enterprise are
integrated by common policy or by sole., service or staff,
and finally the survival of the enteeprise is substantially
dependent on the aetions of others.
2.01. 2.02         Loan amount of US22  million would be payable  Complied
6.01(a)            to the Bank by bCR for 15 yr-. with 4 yre.
grace at the prevailing interest rate. OCR
would onlend in soles US625.25 million for SSE
financing and an additional tIO million from
its own resources for 1S yr-. at the
provailing OCR discount rats (TBR) to COFIDE.
In order to mintain the real velue of Bank
funds the bCR would semi-annually adjust the
amount of its comm;tent to COFIDE.
USS760.000 would be used to finance Technical
Assistance. The OCR will keep soeparate
accounts for the Loan.
2.02(b), 3.02(a)  When receiving from COFIDE a request for the   Complied
financing of an Intermediary Loan, the
Borrower shall lend to COFIDE and COFIDE
shall borro from the Borrower, in soles, the
equivalent of 100S of the request provided that
the Bank's participation does not exceed WSO
of the cost of machinery, equipment,
instellation, civil works, or permanent
working capital. Intere-t will be charged at
the Rediscount Banking Rate prevailing.



- 15 -
4.  Status of Covenants  (cont'd)
Description of
Covenant        Condition                                         Stwtue      Comment
Loan
Agreement
2.02(b)(iii)       Empenditures for an Investment Project have    Complied    by Teles of  2/14/85 the Bank agreed to exempt, 124
not been made more than one hundred eighty        with         subprojects frce the 180-day limit in support of the steps
days prior to the date on which the Blank         ocception   taken by PROPEM end Banco Industrial (SI) to improve their
shall have received from COFIDE in respect to                  mutual operax iwne and COFIDE's decision to espand PROPEM'o
such Investment Project the request and                        training of  ura  based intermediaries.
information required by Section 2.03.
2.05, 2.06         The Borrower shall pay a comitment charge et  Complied
the rate of 3/4 of li pa. on the principal
amount not withdrawn. The Borrower shall pay
on interest rate of 11-3/51 pa. on the
amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstand i ng.
3.03               The Borrower shall for the purposes of this    Wa;ved           Becaues of Peu's current difficult economic situation and
Project, establish and maintain until the                      the 8CR's restrictive monetary and budgetary program, the
last maturity date ost forth in Schedule 1 to                  Bank did nct enforce Section S.03 with reepect to the
this Agreeaent, ouch accounts as shrll be                      maintenance of value and waived the obligations of the OtCR.
necessary for purposes of the Project--
4 separate accounts: (i) to handle receipt
and repayment of bank funds; (ii) transfer
of funds from BCR to COFIDE; (iii) the
discount project fl ow  including maintenance
of values; and (iv) the technical assistance
monoy flows.
3.05               Financial Intermediaries shall be authorized   Complied    As of 6/11/84 COFIDE and the BOM have not notified the Fla
to charge the comOercial rate on subloans.        with         that they are t ,thorized to charge the current commercial
delays       Interest ra.,e ( 01 nominal) established since the initial
rate of 57s. BCR and COFIDE have been requested by the Bank
to comply b, July 31. 1984. Complied September 26. 1984.
3.06(a),4.01(a)   The Borrower and COFIDE shall sverally              Complied    Statue of  o.e.ial Accounts Report
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all   with            of December U1, 1983 due March 194B
such information as the Bank shall reasonably  delays          ws- not received until 10/19/84.
request from each of thee concerning the                       The report received covered the
expenditure of the pro4eeds, the Project, the                  period ending 9/30/84. The Bank received
FI, the SSE&, the Investment Projects, the                    the PROP8I ~'lr  of Funds for 1986-87 on
accounts established, the Sub-loane, and.                      8/29/87.
benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
The Borrower shall have these accounts
audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank for each fiscal year, and furnish
reports to the Bank not later then 4 months
after the end of each such year.



- 16 -
4. Status of Covenants (cont'd)
Description of
Covenunt        Condition                                           Statuo       Lofliv-nta
Loa n
Aijr Sevint
3 07                A meeting shell be hold among the parties of   Not                According tc the Supervision Report of 6/11/84 COFIDE and
this Agreement to eachange views on the             Cc'iplied    OCR did not irform the Fla that they may set their
adequacy of determin;n;  the interest to be                       interest ratee on aubtoans to conform with curre-t
charged on Sub-loans and Intermediary Loans                       allowable cnmmercial rates.
as a function of the Rediscount Banking P.
and the Commercial Rate.
3 08(a)(b)          Sponoor a training program for loan officers   Complied
of FIs to e.pose and sensitize officeor  to         with delays
problems and needs of SSEs, to the lending          6/84.
opportunitiea ava;lable to the Fla and to the
adequate sources cf technical assistance from
which services could be available to SSEs.
The program will take place no later than
6/30/82.
4.04                COFIDE shall have its accounts and financial   Complied    COFIDE eubmitted its 1983 Rpt. on 6/11/84.
statements, including its Subsidiaries, for    with               As of SFN Rpt. 2/14/85 the 1984 audit had not been received.
esch fiscal year audited by independent             delays        Audit ropc.-t for FY85 was received 5/29/86.  FY86 audit
auditors acceptable to the Bank not later                         received 5/1587.  Audit for FY87 received 4/29/88.  A
than 6 months after the end of each said year.                    total of 4   ril,rent independent auditors were used during
the ters of thio Loan.
6 01(a)             The Borrower will draft a policy for SSE            Complied
lending operations.                                 2/82



- 17 -
4. Status of Covenants (cont'd)
Description of
Covonant        Condition                                          Stetua       Ceaments
Loan
Agreement
STheduln 3         The intereet on the outstanding and unpaid                       Amended 7/2:2/66 and 3/02/87.
Part A (2)         principal of each Intermediary Loan will be
paid monthly at a rate that will be a function
of: (i) tho Rediscount Banking Rate; and
(ii) the amount of the Sub-loan financed as
follows:  (a) 2 percentage points over the                      Para. (a) do-pped 6/14/85.
Rediscount Banking Rate, in the case of
Sub-loans of up to 810,000 equivalent; (b) 3                    Amended 6/14,uS and 8/13/B.
percentage points over tho Rediscount Banking
Rate, in the case of Sub-loans of 810,000
equivalent up to 840,000 equivalent; and (c) 4
percentage points over tne Rediscount Banking
Rate, in the case of Sub-loans of more than
340,000 equivalent.
Anendmsnt          Pars. (a), which read, 2 percentago points over
6/14/85            the Rediscount Banking Rate, in the case of
Schedule 3         Sub-loans of up to 810,000 equivalent, is deleted
Part A (2)         and paras. (b) and (c) were replaced as follows:
*(a) 2 percentage points over the Rediscount
Banking Rate, in the case of in the case of
Subloans up to 820,000 equivalent; and
(b) 3 percentage points over the Rediscount
Banking Rate, in the case of Sub-loanes more than
820,000 equivalent.
Amendment          Paroe. (a) and (b), as amended on 6/14/85. were                  SPN of June 19, 1986.  COFIDE has a wider spread on the
8/13/85            replaced as follows: i(a) 3 percentage points                    subloane (3 and 4 percentage points) than the FPI  that are
Schedule 3         over the Rediscount Banking Rats, in the case                    assuming ine risk (2 and 1 percentage points).  The Bank,
Part A (2)         of Sub-loans up to 820,000 equivalent; and (b)                   8CR, and CO'IDE have agreod that tho total spread of 5
4 percentage points over the Rediscount                         percentage  pc;n,s that now exist between the 30X rate charged
Banking Rate, in the case of Sub-loans of more                  by the 8CR and the 35X nominal rate paid by the final
than 820,000 equivalent,                                        borrowers would be allocated as follows:
401 for CO:I )E and 601 for the FIe. This formula would
apply regal-less of possible variations in the total spread,
with the urlarstanding that COFIDE's maximum commis-ion
would be 48 as is now the case.
Amendment          Interest on the outatanding and unpaid
7/22/86            balance of each Intermediary Loan will bh  paid
Schedule 3         monthly ate  rate that will be equivalent to
Part A (2)         40X of the difference between the Rediscount
Banking Rate and the Commercial Rate subject
to a maxirum of 4 percentage points over the
Rediscount Banking Rate.



- 18 -
4. Status of Covenants (cont'd)
Description of
Covenant        Conditio                                         Status       Comments
Loan
Agreement
Amendment          Intareet on the outstanding and
3/02/87            unpaid belence of each Intermediary Loan will
Schedule S         be Paid euert rlJ   *t a rate that will be
Part A (2)         equivalent to 40S of the difference between
the Rediscount Banking Rate and the Commercial
Rate subjoet to a sexisum of 4 percentage
points over the Rediscount Banking Rate.
Schedule S         Each Intermediary Loan will finance up to 0S                   The Bank hap financed a low 44t of total project cost
Pert A (6)         of the corresponding eubloan, however,                          partly due to the fact that in a substantial number of
provided that the project to be financed is                    cases FIe f.nanced less then 50S of the pro,ect cost,
to bs carried out by a New Enterprise. the                     which reduced the Bank's ehare of the  ;nancing.  In
Intermediary Loan will not finance more than                   cease  where (Is financed up to the allowable 88S of totsl
72z of the eotimated cost of the project.                      product cost, tFe Bank could not finance more then  0S.
Schedule S         Each aub-loan will finance up to 1OOS of the                   The inters,t re r3 structure used by OCR has reduced the
Part B (1)         corresponding Investment Project eacept in                      spread of t  EI  from 11.11-12.78S down to 1.97-3.27S.
the caoe such project is to be carried out by                  Under tne "- ''ructure the effective rate on subloans is
a New Enterprims, in which case such Sub-loan                  marginally h.g"r than the average rate on short-term
will not egceed 80S  of the estimated cost of                  commercial creCL.
such project.
Schedule S         Onlending interest rates of intermediaries
Part i (8)         would be at up to the prevailing maximur
rate allowed for term lending, would not
include cmmissions, and would be payablo
quarterly (effective rate 65.951).
Intermediaries would be allowed to charge
interest monthly but would be required to
adjust the nominal rates eo as not to emceed
the effective rate with quarterly payments.



- 19 -
4.  Status of Covenants  (cont'd)
DeascPti,on of
Covennt         Condition                                          Stt.s        Conts
Cuarantee
Agreement
I 01               The parties to thu. Agreement accept all            Complied
the proviaioen of the Coneral Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Cuarantee Agreements
of the Bank dated October 27,1980, with the
same force and effect as if they ere fully
:et forth herein, subject, however, to the
eodification. thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to tho Loan Agr.oment.
2.01               Without limitation or restriction upon any of  Complied
its other obligations under the Guarantee
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety
merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the punctual performence of
all the other obligations of th Borrower, all
as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
2.02               Without limitation or restrictions upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, the Guarantor specifically
undertakes, whenever there is resonable cause
to believe that the funds available to COFIDE
will be inadequate to ms*t the estimated
eapenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide COFIDE or
cause COFIOE to be provided through the
Borrower, with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
3.01(a)            Ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign eachange
held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. If any lien ahall be created on
any public asset, as security for any
external debt, the Cuarantor shall make eVprea
provision, provided that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank securo the
principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other
public assets satisfactory eo the 8ank.  *Public
assetse means assets of the Cuoarntor, of any



- 20 -
4. Status of Covenants (cont'd)
Description of
Cov-eant        Condition                                        Status       Co-ments
Guarantee
Agreement
political or administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the
Cusrantor or much subdivision, including gold
and foreign emchange assets hold by any
institution performing the funct:ons of a
central bank or exchange estabilization fund,
or similar functions, for the Cuarantor.
3.02               The Cuarantor covenants that it will not taka,
or permit any of its political subdivisions or
any of its agenci es or any agency of any smch
political subdivisions to take, any action
which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by COFIDE of its obligations
contained in the Loan Agreement and will take
or cauee to be taken all reasonable action
necessary or appropriate to enable COFIDE to
perform such ob'igations.



- 21 -
5.          Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                                           Peciod                Staff Weeks
(I ;)
Through Appraisal                                                78-31                    68.6
Appraisal  through Board Approval                                81-82                    33.0
Board Approval  Through Effectiveness                            81!82                      1.9
Supervision                                                      82-89                    75.4
Project Completion Report                                        90                         6.0
------------------------------------------TOTAL--..----------184.9----__-----
TOTAL                                                                  184.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------



- 22 -
5.            Use of Bank Resources (con't)
B. Missions
Yonth/  Number of  No. Of  Staff   Date& of  Overall Project.  Types of
Activity                Year      Persons   Weeks   Weeks   Report    Status Ratirng    Problem2
Identiftication          12/80       2       2.5      8.0      1/28/dl
Preparation               3/81       3        2.8     7.5       4/7/81
Appraisl                  5/81       S       3.0   1l.0    11/16/81
Post Appraisal            8/81       1        1.0     L_      11/16/81
Subtotal                                           28.S
Supervision               1/82       1        1.0     1.0       2/2/82        1
Supervision               6/82       1        1.0     1.0      6/29/82        2               e
Sujperriion             10/823       2       2.0      4.0    11/29/82         1
Supervision               1/83       1       0.3      0.3       2/2/83        2
Supervision               6/83       2        2.0     4.0      7/22/83
Supervision              10/83       1       2.4      2.4    11/07/83         2               0,o
Supervision               5/84       1       0.2      0.2      6/11/84        2               m.f
Supervimion               1/8S       2       2.8      5.6      2/14/8!        2               a
Supervision              10/88       2       2.0      4.0    11/22/85         2
Superviaion               5/86f      2       3.0      6.0      6/10/86        2
Supervision             6/864        1       0.4      0.4      8/12/86        1
Supervision             4-5/87       1       2.0      2.       6/29/87        1
Subtotal                                           30.6
2/  f-financial;  m-managerial;  t-technical;  p-.::litical;  a-other
3/  Incomplete Supervision Report
41  Combined with Supervision for (Loan 1963-PE) and (Loan 2091-PE):  402
time



- 23 -
ANNEXI
Page I of 3
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT * LOAN 2064-PE
SUBPROJECT DISTRIPTITION BY REGION
(1982-1987)
(000's of INTIS)
1982                        1983                         1984                          1985
Subprojects    Financing     Subprojects    Financing    Sub  ;cts        Financing    SubpMjects      Financing
Region          No.    %      Amt-%    -No.    %           Ant    %       No.    %      Amt    %        No.    %      Ant    %
Limfa-Callao     20   28.6    906   44.5   303   45.2  8.994   48.7   276   55.5  16,523   55.6   175   42.6  39.336   49.8
Southeem Area    23   32.9    741   36.4   112   16.7  4.089   22.1    62   12.5   5,366   18.1    67   16.3  16,961   21.5
Northiem Area     18   25.7    336   16.5    81   12.1  2,148   11.6    57   11.5   4,740   15.9    55   13.4  12,457   15.8
CentralAxea       3    4.3      13    0.6    34    5.1    367    2.0    24    4.8         561    1.9    39    9.5  2,119    2.7
Eastern            -      -      -      -     52    7.8    995    5.4    30    6.0        749    2.5    16    3.9  1.568    2.0
Other             6    8.6      39    1.9    88   13.1  1,873   10.1    48    9.7   1,786    6.0    59   14.4  6,600    8A
TOTAL           70  100.0  2,035  100.0   670  100.0  18.466  100.0   497  100.0  29.725  100.0   411  100.0  79,041  100.0
1986                        1987                        TOTAL
Subprojects    Financing     Subproject&    Fnacin       Subpojects       Financing
Region          No.    %      Amt    %       No.    %      Affi    %      No.    %      Ant    %
Limia-Callao     55   23.7  34,874   37.9    26   38.2  18.012   50.7   855   43.9  118.645   46.2
Southeem Arxa    27   11.6  13,281   14.4    10   14.7  7,389   20.8   301   15.5  47,827   18.6
Northem Area     46   19.8  20,589   22.4    21   30.9  8.278   23.3   278   14.3  4&548   18.9
Central Area     51   22.0  9,482   10.3       2    2.9    144    0A    153    79   12,686    4.9
Eastem            5    2.2   1.911    2.1       -     -       -      -    103    5.3   5,223    2.0
Other            48   20.7  11.839   12.9      9   13.2  1,711    4.8   258   13.2  23,848    93
TOTAL          232  100.0  91,976  100.0    68  100.0  35,534  100.0  1,948  100.0  256,777  100.0
Source: COFIDE



- 24 -
ANNEX I
PERU                                                                Page 2 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT. LOAN 2064-PE
SUBPROJECT DISTRIBUT'ION BY SECTUR
(1982-1987)
(000's of INTIS)
1982                            1983                            1984                             1985
Subprojects      Financing      Subprojectas      Fmancing      Subprojects       Financing      Subprojects       Financing
Sector                         No.    %        Amn      90      No.     %      Aint      %      No.      %      Amt      9c      No.     %       Amt      %
Agriculture&Game                  1     1.4       72     3.5     17      25      912     4.9      14     2.8    1.885     6.3      4      1.0     909      1.2
Basic.Mctals                      1     1.4        6     0.3     20      3.0     445     2.4       7     1.4     488      1.6       1    0.2      201     0.3
Chemicals                         3     4.3      144     7.1     33      4.9    1,120    6.1      24     4.8    2,800     9.4     25      6.1    6.187     7.8
Ccmmercial                        9    12.9      396    19.5     46      6.9    1,840    10.0     22     4.4    2,046     6.9     31      7.5    6,950     8.8
Communications                                 -      -                                                                     -      2      0.5     297      0.4
Construction                      *                -              5      0.7     236      1.3      9     1.8      536     1.8      3      0.7    2,389     3.0
Electricity, Gas, & Water         -       -        *                                -              1     0.2        9     0.0       1     0.2      60      0.1
Extraction of Minerals, Metal     -       -        -       -       -       -        *              3     0.6      666     2.2
ExtactionofOtherMinerals          1     1.4        5     0.2      4      0.6     336      1.8      1    0.2        18     0.1       1     0.2      85      0.1
Financial Establishments                                          I -  -  -  1  0.1  51  0.3               .            -           -
Fish                             11    15.7      150     7.4     28     4.2      332     1.8      17     3.4    1.054     3.5     17      4.1    5,413    6.8
Food Products. Beverag& Tobacco    7    10.0     108     5.3     84    125    2.111    IIA        79    15.9   4,059    13.7      67    16.3  13,922    17.6
Forestry & Extraction of Wood             -        -              5     0.7      132     0.7       -       -        -       -       *
Manuf. Metals, Machinery & Equip    6   8.6      170     8.4     76    11.3   2,019    10.9       45     9.1    2,989    10.1     33      8.0   6.670     8.4
Manuf. of Minerals,non-metal,e    4     5.7       73     3.6     23     3.4      584     3.2      12     2.4    1,049     3.5      7      1.7   2,143     2.7
Other Manufacture Industries      1     1.4       34     1.7      5     0.7      253     1.4       5     1.0      46      0.2      7      1.7   1,029      1.3
Paper,PaperProducts,Printing      5     7.1       89     4.4     37      5.5     701     3.8      15     3.0      723     2.4     16      3.9   3,473     4.4
PublicAdministration&Defense      -       -        -       -      2     0.3       29     0.2       1     0.2       18     0.1               -        .      -
ReallEstate&LoanServtoEnter       1     1.4       36     1.8     12      1.8     636     3.4      11     2.2      869     2.9     13      32    2,537     32
Restaurmnts&Hotels                1     1.4       18     0.9     30     4.5      494     2.7      32     6.4    1,529     5.3     34      8.3   2,935     3.7
Services,communal.soc.person      4     5.7      275    13.5     47     7.0    1,188     6A       54    10.9   2,834      9.5     43    10.5   4,750      6.0
Textiles                          4     5.7      101     5.0    108    16.1   2,149    11.6       88    17.7    3,609    12.1     50    12.2    7,216     9.1
Transport a Storage               9    12.9      329    16.2     44      6.6    1,980    10.7     31     6.2    1,688     5.7     41    10.0  10.607    13A
Wood&WoodProducts,inclfurn        2     2.9       29     IA      43      6.4     921     5.0      26     5.2      750     2.5     15      3.6    1,268     1.6
TOTAL                         70    100    2.035    100    670    100   18,469    100    497    100   29,725           100    411    100   79.041    100
1986                            1987                           TOTAL
Subprojects      Fuiancing      Subprojects       Financing     Subprojects       Fnancing
Sector                         No.    %        Amt      %       No.     %      Ant       %      No.     %       Amt      %
Agriculture&Game                  3     1.3   1,823      2.0      2     29       567     1.6      41     2.1    6,169     2.4
Basic Metals                      1     0.4      900     1.0       -      -        -       *      30     1.5   2,039      0.8
Chemicals                        11     4.7   7.295      7.9      2     2.9   2.327      6.5      98     5.0   19,873     7.7
Commercial                       20     8.6   5,686      6.2      7    10.3   2,540      7.1    135      6.9   19,457     7.6
Communications                    1    0.4       171     0.2       -      -        -               3     0.2     468      0.2
Construction                      2     0.9    1,926     2.1       -      -        -       *      19     1.0   5,086      2.0
Electricity, Gas, & Water         1     0.4      305     0.3       -      -           -            3     0.2     374      0.1
Extraction of Minerals. Metal     -       -        -       *       -                       -       3     0.2     666      0.3
Extracuion of Other Minerals      -       -          -       -       *             -       -       7     OA      444      0.2
Financial Establishments                                                                           I - .  .  .  .   .  0.1  51  0.0
Fish                             17     7.3   10,758    11.7      7    10.3   2,494      7.0     97      5.0  20,201      7.9
Food Products, Beverag& Tobacco   28    12.1    8,803    9.6      2     2.9      524     1.5    267    13.7  29,526    11.5
Forestry & Extraction of Wood     2     0.9      385     0.4                       -       -       7     OA      517      0.2
Manuf. Metals, Macinery & Equip  14     6.0   6,085      6.6      3     4A    3,074      8.7    177      9.1  21,008      82
Manuf. of Minerals, non-metaL e   1    0.4      732      0.8      1      1.5     995     2.8     48      2.5    5,575     2.2
OtberManufacture Industries       4     1.7   3,198      3.5      2      29      279     0.8      24     12    4,839      1.9
Paper, Paper Products, Printiug   8     3.4   2,246      2.4      6     8.8   2,809      7.9      87     4.5  10,042      3.9
Pubic Administration & Defense    2     0.9      369     OA       1      1.5     147     OA        6     0.3     563      0.2
RealEsta e&LoanServtoEnter        3     1.3   1,674      1.8      3     4A    1,944      5.5      43     22    7,696      3.0
Resauwants&Hotels                22     9.5   6,852      7.4      8    11.8   5,492    15.5    127       6.5  17,381      6.8
S.svicea communal, soc, perrn    36    155    6,458      7.0      7    10.3   2,813      7.9    19t      9.8   18,319     7.1
Textiles                         27    11.6  11.778    12.8       6     8.8   2,534      7.1    283    14.5  27,386    10.1
Transpout&Storage                19     8.2  12.164    13.2      11    16.2   6,994    19.7    155       8.0  33,761    13.1
Wood & Wood Products, incl furn    10   4.3    2368      2.6       -      -        -             96      4.9   5,336      2.1
TOTAL                        232    100   91,976    100        68    100   35,533    100   1,948    100  256.777       100
Source: COFIDE



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT - LOAN 2064-PE
SUBPROJECT PROFILE BY PURPOSE AND SIZE
(1982-1987)
(OOO's of INTIS)
1982                         1983                         1984                           1985
Subprojects     Financing    Subprojects     Financing    Subprojects      Financing     Subprojects     Financing
Purpose           No.    %      AmL    %       No.    %      Ami.    %      No.    %       AmL      %      No.    %      Amt      o %
New                20   28.6    294   14.4   251   37.5   5,000   27.1   201   40.4    8,682   29.2   161   39.2  24,189   30.6
Expansion          50   71.4   1,741   85.6   419   62.5  13.465   72.9   296   59.6   21,044   70.8   250   60.8  54,852   69.4
TOTAL           70  100.0   2,035  100.0   670  100.0  18,465  100.0   497  100.0   29,726  100.0   411  100.0  79,041  100.0
1986                         1987                        TOTAL
Subprojects     Financing    Subprojects     Financing    Subprojects      Financing
Purpose           No.    %     AmL    %        No.    %      AmL    %       No.    %       Amt      %
New                88   37.9  29,343   31.9    17   25.0   7,760   21.8   738   37.9   75,268   29.3
Expansion         144   62.1  62,632   68.1    51   75.0  27,775   78.2  1,210   62.1  181,509   70.7
TOTAL          232  100.0  91,975  100.0    68  100.0  35,535  100.0  1,948  100.0  256,777  100.0
1982                         1983                         1984                           1985
Subprojects     Financing    Subprojects     Financing    Subprojects      Financing    Subprojects      Financing
Size of Subloan   No.    %     AmL    %        No.    %      Amt    %       No.    %      Amt       %     No.    %      Amt    %
UptoUSS1O.OOO      25   35.7    115    5.7   328   49.0   2,233   12.1   281   56.5    3,413   11.5   201   48.9   7,954   10.1
USS10.001 USS40.000  19   27.1    320   15.7   235   35.1   6,383   34.6   150   30.2    9,501   32.0   143   34.8  26,456   33.5
Mom thanUs$40o0oo   26   37.1   1,599   78.6   107   16.0  9,849   53.3    66   13.3   16,811   56.6    67   16.3  44,630   56.5
TOTAL           70  100.0   2,034  100.0   670  100.0  18,465  100.0   497  100.0  29,725  100.0   411  100.0  79,040  100.0
1986                         1987                       TOTAL
Subprojects     Financing    Subprojects     Financing    Subprojects      Financing
Size of Subloan   No.    %     AmL    %        No.    %      AnL    %       No.    %      AmL       %
UptoUSS10,000      81   34.9   4,258    4.6    18   26.5   1,505    4.2   934   47.9   19,478    7.6
USS10.001-USS40,000  91   39.2  24,428   26.6    30   44.1   9,460   26.6   668   34.3   76,548   29.8
More dmnUSs4m,o0o    60   25.9  63,289   68.8    20   29.4  24,569   69.1   346   17.8  160,747   62.6
TOTAL          232  100.0  91,975  100.0    68  100.0  35,534  100.0  1,948  100.0  256,773  100.0
Source: COFIDE



- 26 -                                                                    ANNEX2
PERU                                                                   Pagel of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERrUISE PROJECT - LOAN 2064-PE
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION BY SECTOR
(1982-1987)
1982                         1983                           1984                              1985
Subpxjet       Bmploymet        Subnpuect     Emplobymen       Subprojects   Employment       Subprjeccts    Employment
Sector                       Amount            GuL      9,  Amount    %        Gn.    *   Amnt    %           Gen.    %    Amount    %       Gen.    %
Agriculwure&GnCe                  I      IA       5     1.5      17      25       3    2.4       14    2.8    210    7.9         4     1.0    I5    0.6
Bui MetalS                        I      IA       1     0.3      20      3.0    97      32       7      IA      70    2.6        1    0.2       2    0.1
chemicals                         3      4.3    28      8.2      33      4.9    128    4.3       24    4.8    157    5.9        25    6.1    172    6.6
Commercial                        9    12.9    33       9.6      46      6.9   172    5.7        22    4A       74    2.8       31    7.5    156    6.0
cmmunicatit                                .              -                              .        -       .      -               2    0.5    12    0.5
Construction                       -       .                      5      0.7    33    1.1         9     1.8     41    1.5        3    0.7       9    03
city, Gas, &War              .               - -                                            1    0.2        2    0.1        1    0.2       4    02
tactionoMkerh,                  -       -       -       - M                                    3    0.6    142    5A                   -
tractionofOdterMinmls           I      IA       -               4      0.6    65    2.2        1    0.2       16    0.6        1    0.2       3    0.1
wcaiEstablith;en                                                 I    0.1    10    03          -
Zllm                             11    15.7    41    12.0        28      42    141    4.7        17    3A      113    4.3       17    4.1    150    5.8
Food Products, Beverag & Tobacco  7    10.0    2r.    5.8        84    12.5   509   17.0         79    15.9    382   14A        67    16.3   544   21.0
Forestry & Extrion of Wood         -       -              -       5      0.7    65    2.2                        .       .       -
Manuf.Metals. MwcIinery&Equip     6      8.6    39    11A        76    11.3   301   10.1        45    9.1    188    7.1         33    8.0   203    7.8
Manuf.ofMunermls,non-metat e      4      5.7    23      6.7      23      3A     118    3.9       12    2.4    124    4.7         7     1.7   125    4.8
OdwerManufactureIndwtries         I      IA      10     Z9        5      0.7    14    0.5         5     1.0      4    0.2        7     1.7    37    IA
PaperPa perProducts.Printing      5      7.1      9     2.6      37      5.5   104    3.5        15    3.0      32     1.2      16    3.9    58    22
PublicAdministation &Defense       -              -       -       2      03       5    0.2        1    0.2       3    0.1
Reslaute&LoanServtoEnter          I      IA       5     1.5      12      1.8    82    2.7        11    2.2      63    2.4       13    32    110    43
Restaurnts &Horels                I      IA      11     32       30      4.5   156    52         32    6.4    132    5.0        34     83    132    5.1
Savic s,ccmntual. soc. pus(.      4      5.7    51    14.9       47      7.0   185    6.2        54   109      286   10.8       43    105    214    83
Textiles                          4      5.7    24      7.0     108    16.1   357    11.9        88    17.7    375   14.2       50   12.2   361   13.9
Transport&Storage                 9    12.9    43    12.5        44      6.6    120    4.0       31    62       72    2.7       41    10.0   177    6.8
Wood&WoodProducts.inclfuin        2      2.9      -       -      43      6A    257    8.6        26    52      160    6.0       15    3.6   104    4.0
TOTAL                          70     100    343      100     670     100  2992    100       497    100   2.646    100       411    1002,588    100
1986                           1987                          TOTAL
Subtecs        EBmploymenz     Subpgrjecta    Employment      Subprojects    Emlpoyment
Sector                       Amount      %    Gen.    9,  Amount    %          GMn     %   Amount   9,        Gmt    %
AgrIulture&Game                   3      1.3    27      1.8       2      2.9      7     1.5      41    2.1    337    32
Basic Metals                      I      OA      20     13         -         *           -       30     15     190    1.8
Chemicals                         11     4.7    137     8.9       2      2.9    22    4.8        98    5.0    644    6.1
Commeria                         20      8.6    62      4.0       7    103       29    63       135    6.9    526    5.0
Communications                     1     0.4      3     02                 -      -               3    0.2      15    0.1
Construction                      2      0.9     12     0.8        -       -      -      -       19    1.0      95    0.9
Elecricity, Gas. & Water          I      OA       9     0.6        -       *      -      -        3    02       15    0.1
ExusionofMinerIsMaal               -       -      *       -        -       -        -             3    0.2    142    1.3
Exmuscon of Other Minerals         -       -      -       -        -       -      -      -        7    OA       84    0.8
Fmvscial Esbl                                     - i              *                     *        I    0.1      10    0.1
Fob                              17      73    193    12.6        7    103       68   14.9      97      5.0    706    6.7
Foodliroduc*s,Beverag & Tobtacco  28    121    126      82        2      2.9     4    0.9       267    13.7   1.585    15.0
FI-:try&ExtraionofWood            2      0.9    65      42         -       -      -      -        7    OA      130    1.2
Mnut. Metal,Machinery&Equip      14      6.0    42      27        3      4.      21    4.6      177    9.1    794    7.5
Manuf. of Minshl snon-metat e     I      OA      25     1.6       1      1.5    50   10.9       48    2.5    465    4A
OdoerManufacturelndusties         4      1.7   111      72        2      2.9      1    02        24     1.2    177    1.7
Paper. PaperProducts. Printing    8      3A      27     1.8       6      8.8    37    8.1        87    4.5    267    2.5
PublicAdmninistration&Defene      2      ^.9    19      12        1      1.5      1    02         6    0.3      28    03
RealBtE e&LoanSev toEnter         3      13       7     0.5       3      4A      13    2.8      43      2.2    280    2.7
Restaumnts&Hotels                22      9.5    92      6.0       8    11.8   121   26.5        127    6.5    644    6.1
Smvices.conmmuaLNsoc,petse       36    15.5    169    11.0        7    103       12    2.6      191    9.8    917    8.7
Teiks                            27    11.6   283   I1A           6      8.8    48   10.5       283   14.5   1,448   13.7
Tr.sport& Storage                19      8.2    69      4.5      11    16.2    23    5.0        155    8.0    504    4.8
Wood & Wood Products. imd fun    10      43      38     2.5        -              -       -      96    4.9    559    53
TOTAL                         232   100.0  1,536   10n.0       68   100.0   457  100.0   1,948  100.0  10,562  100.0
Source: COFIDE



- 27 -                                         ANEX 2
PERU                                           Page 2 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION RFPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJFCT - LOAN 2064-PfE
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION BY SECTOR, PURPOSE, AND) COST
NEW
Totl Investnent           Cost per
Fmployment Gaded         Cost                     Employnent Generated
Sector                                 Toul      (% of TotAl)   (000s Intis)   (9b of Toal)  ('000 Intis)
Agriculturc & Garne                      171          1.6        2.905          0.6               17.0
lBasic Mctals                             74         0.7         2,297          0.5               31.0
Chemicals                                321         3.0         16,578         3.6               51.6
Commercial                               139          1.3        10,152         2.2               73.0
Communications                            13         0.1           872          0.2               67.1
Construction                               3         0.0           204          0.0               68.0
ilectricity. Gas, & Watcr                 13         0.1           961          0.2               73.9
Extraction of Minerals, Mctal              7         0.1           176          0.0               25.1
1Ixtraction of Other Mincrals              S         0.0           IlI          0.0               22.2
Financial Establishmcnts                  10         0.1            73          0.0                7.3
Fish                                     378         3.6         20,404         4.4               54.0
Food Products, Beverag & Tobacco         872          8.3        30,555         6.7               35.0
Forestry & Extraction of Wood             11         0.1           222          0.0               20.2
Manuf. Metals, Machinery & Equip         277         2.6          8,609         1.9               31.1
Manuf. of Minerals, non-metal, c         145          1.4         2,345         0.5               16.2
Other Manufacture Industrics             125          1.2         5.830         1.3               46.6
Paper, Paper Products, Printing           76         0.7          4294          0.9               56.5
Public Admniistration & Dcfcnsc           19         0.2           441          0.1               23.2
Real Estate & Loan Scrv to Enter          70         0.7          1,236         0.3               17.7
Restaurants & llotels                    425         4.0         21,924         4.8               51.6
Services, communal, soc, person          532         5.0         23.579         5.1               44.3
Textiles                                 536          5.1        12.935         2.8               24.1
'Transport & Storage                     163          1.5         9.939         2.2               61.0
Wood & Wood Products, incJ fum           224         2.1          3.193         0.7               14.3
Sub-Total                           4,609        43.6       179.835        39.2               39.0 a/
EXPANSION
Totl tIvestnent           Cost per
Enployment Generated     Cost                     Employment Generaatd
So"                                    Total     (% of Total)   ('000 intis)   (% of Total)  ('000 intis)
Agriculture & Game                       166          1.6         6,275         1.4               37.8
Basic Metals                             116          1.1         1,301         0.3               11.2
Chemicals                                323          3.1        16,156         3.5               50.0
Commercial                               387          3.7        21.205         4.6               54.8
Communications                             2         0.0           111          0.0               55.5
Construction                              92         0.9          7,340         1.6               79.8
Electricity, Gas. & Water                  2         0.0            25          0.0               12.5
.xtraction of Minerals, Metal            135          1.3          700          0.2                5.2
Extraction of Other Minerals              79         0.7           490          0.1                6.2
Financial Establishments                   -           -             -                              -
Fish                                     328         3.1         23,148         5.0               70.6
IFood Prmducts, Beverag & Tobacco        713         6.8        24.721          5.4               34.7
Forestry&ExtractionofWood                119          1.1         1,079         0.2               9.1
Manuf. Metals, Machinery & Equip         517         4.9        23,701          5.2              45.8
Manuf. of Minerals, non-nttal, e         320         3.0          7,970         1.7               24.9
Other Manufacture Industries              52         0.5          1.951         0.4               37.5
Paper. Paper Products, Printing          191          1.8        13,620         3.0               71.3
Public Adirrnistration & Defense           9         0.1           373          0.1               41.4
Real Estate & Loan Serv to Enter         210         2.0         9.379          2.0               44.7
Restaurants & Hotels                     219         2.1         17,358         3.8               79.3
Services, conununal, soc, person         385         3.6         14.282         3.1               37.1
Textiles                                 912         8.6         37,038         8.1               40.6
Trnsport & Storage                       341         3.2         44,918         9.8              131.7
Wood & Wood Products, inc furn           335         3.2         6,353          1.4              19.0
Sub-Total                           5,953        56.4       279.494        60.8               47.0 a,
TOTAL                            | 10,562        100.0       459,329       100.0               43.5 |
at Awrage t cma.
Sourwc: COFIDE



- 28 -
A,NNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT - LOAN 2064-PE
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION BY REGION, PURPOSE, AND COST
NEW
Cost per
Total Investment       Emnployment Generated
Employment Generated         Cost                            Amount
Region                 Amount       % of total    ('000s Intis)    of total        ('000s Intis)
Lima-Callao              2.384         22.6          74,292         16.2                31.2
Southem Area              585           5.5          31.961          7.0                54.6
Northern Area             390           3.7          12,207          2.7                31.3
Central Area              280           2.7          14,590          3.2                52.1
Eastem                    244           2.3           6,988          1.5                28.6
Other                     726           6.9          39,797          8.7                54.8
Sub-Total            4,609         43.6         179,835         39.2                39.0 a/
EXPANSION
Cost per
Total Investment       Employment Generated
Employment Generated         Cost          %                 Amount
Region                 Amount       % of total    (O000s Intis)    of total        ('000s Intis)
Lima-Callao               155            1.5        127,393         27.7               821.9
Southem Area              899           8.5          48,722         10.6                54.2
Northem Area              871           8.2          63,221         13.8                72.6
Central Area              266           2.5          12,713          2.8                47.8
Eastern                   112           1.1           4,118          0.9                36.8
Other                   3,650          34.6          23,327          5.1                 6.4
Sub-Total            5,953         56.4         279,494         60.8                47.0 a/
TOTAL                10,562         100.0        459,329        100.0                43.5
al Average total cost.
Source: COFIDE



-  29 -                                                       ANNEX3
PERU                                                      Page I of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT - LOAN 2064-PE
USE OF LOAN FUNDS THROUGH FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
(1982-1986)
(000's of InUs)
1982                          1983                          1984
Subprqject     Financing      Subproject       Financing    Subproject       Financing
Intermediary                            No.    %      AmL       %      No.    %       Amt.    %      No.    %       Amt.    %
BANKS
Banco Amazonico                                                           3    0.4      174    0.9      -      -        -      -
Banco Comercial dcl Peru                       -      -            -      2    0.3      194    1.0             -
Banco Continental                          4    5.7     160      7.9    46    6.8    2,217   11.8    24    4.1   2.388    6.9
Banco de Credito del Peru                  -               -       -      2    0.3      166    0.9      5    1.0      662    1.9
Banco de Desarrollo de la Construccion     -               -       -      -      -        -      -      7    1.4    1,338    3.9
Banco de Lina                              1    1.4      36      1.8      5    0.7      276    1.5      1    0.2       25    0.1
Banco de los Andes                         -      -        -              5    0.7      207    1.1      1    0.2        5    0.0
BancodelSurdelPeru                        12   17.1     426    20.9    41    6.1    2.100   11.1    21    4.1    1,139    3.3
BancoExteriordelosAndesyEspana             -      -                -      I    0.1       54    0.3      1    0.2      349    1.0
Banco Industrial del Peru                 27   38.6     226     11.1   458   68.2   6,895   36.6   369   72.6   14,465   41.9
Banco Intemacional del Peru                -      -        -       -      I    0.1       86    0.5      3    0.6      666    1.9
Banco Latino de Fomento de. la Construccion  3    4.3    207    10.2      -      -        -      -      2    0.4      924    2.7
Banco Mercantil                            -      -        -       -      -      -        -      -      1    0.2      155    0.4
BancoMinerodelPeru                         -      -        --  -       -                  -      -           0.2      384    1.1
Banco NOI-Peru                             6    8.6     126      6.2    52    7.7   2,064   10.9    16    3.1    1,115    3.2
Banco Popular del Peru                     -      -        -       -      8    1.2      361    1.9    11    2.2    1,416    4.1
Banco Regional del Norte                   -      -        -       -      4    0.6       42    0.2    15    3.0   4,399   12.7
Banco Wiese LTDO.                          -      -        -              3    0.4      255    1.4      1    0.2       99    0.3
Banco Financiero                                   -          -       -              -       -      -          -        -      -
Sub-total                              53   75.7   1,181      58.1   631   93.9   15,091   80.0   479   94.3   29.529   85.5
FINANCIAL INSTIllTIONS
Financiera de Credito                      -      -        -       -      3    0.4      188    1.0      2    0.4      400    1.2
Financiera de Lima                         -      -        -       -      1    0.1      180    1.0             -        -      -
Finandiera del Stir                        4    5.7     116      5.7      5    0.7      470    2.5    10    2.0       877    2.5
Financiera Nacional S.A.                   7   10.0    451      22.2      5    0.7      333    1.8      -      -        -      -
Financiera Peruana                         -      -        -       -      I    0.1       90    0.5      -      -
Banco Fnancieo                             -      -       -        -      2    0.3      200    1.1      -
Financiera San Pedro S.A.                  -      -        -       -    10    1.5       985    5.2         -        -
FLaancera Sudamericana                     -      -        -       -      -      -        -      -      3    0.6    1,130    3.3
PeruinvestCIA.deFomentoelnversiones        6    8.6    286      14.1    14    2.1    1,315    7.0    11    2.2    2,358    6.8
Caja de Ahorros de Lirna                   -      -        -       -      -      -        -      -      3    0.6      254    0.7
Sub-Totdl                              17   24.3      853     41.9    41    6.1    3,761   20.0    29    5.7    5,019   14.5
TOTAL                                  70  100.0   2,034    100.0   672  100.0   18,852  100.0   508  100.0  34,548  100.0



- 30 -                                                         ANNEX3
Page 2 of 2
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT - LOAN 2064-PE
USE OF LOAN FUNDS THROUGH FINANCIAL INrERMEDIARIES
(1982.1986
(COO's of Inds)
1985                         1986                          TOTAL
Subp,oject      Financing    Subejtect        Financing     Subpect         Financing
lntrmediaiy                             No.    %      Ani     %      No.    %      A mL      %     No.    %       AmL      %
ANKS
Banco Amazonico                           .                                                            3    0.2      174    0.1
BancoComercaldelPea                       -       - Pr                  -       -               -      2    0.1      194    0.1
Banco Continental                        21    5.1   3.712    4.6    17    6.0   6,877    5.7   112    5.7  15354    6.0
BancodeCreditodelPeru                     8     1.9   4,631    5.8    17    6.0  10.002    8.3    32    1.6  15,461    6.0
Banco de Desaiollo de la Construccion     2    0.5    945    1.2        5    1.8   4,084    3.4    14    0.7    6,367    2.5
BancodeLima                                               -      -      4    1.4   1,928      1.6    11    0.6   2,265    0.9
Banoo de los Andes                        4    1.0    149    0.2        2    0.7      325    0.3    12    0.6        686    0.3
BancodelSurdelPeru                       1S    3.6   1,921    2.4       3     1.1    1,233    1.0    92    4.7   6,819    2.7
Banco Exterior de los Andes y Espana     13    3.1   6,333    7.9       4     1.4   4,014    33       19    1.0  10,750    4.2
BancolndustialdelPeru                   274   66.3  35,119   43.7   145   50.9  30,694   25.4  1.273   65.3  87,399   34.0
Banco Intemacional del Penu               4    1.0   3,051    3.8    14    4.9   11,869    9.8    22    1.1  15,672    6.1
Banco Latino de Fomnto de la Construccion  5    1.2   2.207    2.7      4     1.4   4,134    3.4    14    0.7   7,472    2.9
Banco Mercantil                           2    0.5    633    0.8        1    0.4      598    0.5       4    0.2    1.386    0.5
Banco Minero del Peru                     -       -       -      -      -       -        -      -      1    0.1      384    0.1
Banco NOI-Peru                           25    6.1   5,039    6.3    12    4.2   5,39    4.7   111    5.7  13,983    5.4
Banco Popular del Peru                    9    2.2   2,473    3.1    20    7.0   14,066    11.6    48    2.5   18,316    7.1
Banco Regional del Nore                   6    1.5   3,776    4.7    15    53    3,946    33         40    2.1   12,163    4.7
Banco Wiese LTDO.                         1    0.2       65    0.1      7    2.5   6.651    5.5    12    0.6   7,070    2.8
Banco Finandero                           -       -       -       -     2    0.7      630    0.5       2    0.1      630    0.2
Sub-Total                             389   94.2  70.054   87.1   272   95.4  106.690   88.3  1,824   93.6  222,545   86.7
FINANCIAL INSTILlUlONS
FinaniemadeCredito                        2    0.5   1,715    2.1       1    0.4   1,112    0.9        8    0.4   3,415    1.3
Financierade Lina                         -       -       -       -     -       -               -      1    0.1      180    0.1
FinancieradelSur                          7     1.7   1,321    1.6      1    0.4      405    03      27      1.4   3.189    1.2
Financier Nadonal SA-- -                          -       -       -                                   12    0.6      784    03
FinancieraPeruana                         -       -       -       -     5    1.8   8,180    6.8       6    03    8,270    3.2
hanco Financiero                          -       -       -      -      -       -       -       -      2    0.1      200    0.1
Finan.era San Pedro SJL                   4     1.0   2,102    2.6      2    0.7   1.500    1.2    16    0.8   4,587    1.8
Financera Sudlanericamm                   4     1.0   1,76f    2.2      -       -        -      -      7    0.4   2,896    1.1
Peruinvest CLA. de FomentoDe lnversiones  5    1.2   2,842    3.5       1    0.4   2,365      2.0    37    1.9   9,166    3.6
CajadeAhonosdeLima                        2    0.5    648    0.8        3     1.1     640    0.5       8    0.4   1,542    0.6
Sub-Total                              24    5.8  10394    12.9    13    4.6   14,202   11.7   124    6.4  34,229   13.3
TOTAL                                 413  100.0  80,448  100.0   285  100.0  120,892  100.0  1,948  100.0  26,774  100.0
Souror: COFIDE



- 31 -
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT - LOAN 2064-PE
INTEFEST RATES CHARGED BY FINANCIAL INTERMEDIRIES AND COMMERCIL RATES
(FY82-FY6)
Fin. Inter.         1982                     1983                       1984                       1985                       1986                     TOTAL
Interst Rate  No.   %    Amt 1%       No.  %       Ann                 %     Amt    %      No.   %      Anm    %      No.  %       Ann    %      Nc.   %      Amt   %
32.00      -    -       -    -       3   0.5    174   1.2          - -                                                                          3   0.2      174   0.1
33.00      -    -       -    -       2   03      194   1.3      -    -        -    -       -    -        -    -      -    -         -    -      2   0.1      194   0.1
33.60      4   7.5   160  13.5    46   73    2,217  14.7    24   5.0   2,388   8.1    21   5.4   3.712   53         17   6.3   6,877   6A    112  6.1  15,354   6.9
34.00      -    -       -    -       2   03      166   1.1      5   1.0    662   2.2       8   2.1   4,631   6.6    17   63   10.002   9A      32   1.8  15,462   6.9
35.00      -    -       -    -       -    -        -    -       7   1.5   1338   4.5      2   0.5    945   13        5   1.8   4.084   3.8    14   0.8   6,367   2.9
36.50      1       19  36   3.0      5   0.8    276   1.8       1   0.2      25   0.1      -    -        -    -      4   1.5    1,928   1.8     11  0.6   2,265   1.0
37.50       -    -      -    -       5  0.8    207   1.4        1   0.2       5   0.0      4   1.0    149   0.2      2   0.7      325   03      12  0.7      686   03
43.50     12  22.6   426  36.1    41   6.5   2,100  13.9    21   4.4   1,139   3.9    15   3.9   1,921   2.7         3   1.1   1,233   1.2    92   5.0   6.820   3.1
45.63       -    -      -    -       1   0.2      54   0.4      1   0.2    349   1.2    13   33   6,333   9.0        4   1.5   4,014   3.8    1c   1.0  10,749   4.8
45.71     27  50.9   226  19.1   458  72.0   6.895  45.7   369  77.0  14,465  49.0   274  70.4  35,119  50.1   145  533   30,694  28.8  1.273  69.8  87.399  393
46.50      -    -       -    -       I            86   0.6      3   0.6    666   2.3      4   1.0   3,051   4.4    14  5.1  11.869  11.1    22   1.2  15,672   7.0
46.71      3   5.7   207  17.5       -             -    -       2   0.4    924   3.1      5   13   2,207   3.2       4   1.5   4.134   3.9    14   0.8   7,473   3.4
47.59       -    -      -    -       -    -        -    -       1   0.2     155  0.5       2  0.5     633   0.9      1   OA       598   0.6     4   0.2    1386   0.6    W
47.63       -    -      -    -       -    -        -    -       1   0.2    384   1.3       -    -        -    -      -    -         -    -      I   0.1      384   0.2
47.79      6  11.3   126  10.7    52   8.2   2,064  13.7    16   33    1,115   3.8    25   6.4   5,039   7.2    12   4.4   5,639   53    111   6.1  13,983   6.3
48.50       -    -      -    -       8   13      361  2.4    11  2.3   1,416   4.8         9   2.3   2,473  3.5    20  7.4   1dO6  13.2    48   2.6  18316   82
49.50       -                        4   0.6      42   03      15   3.1   4,399  14.9      6   1.5   3,776   5.4    15   55    3,946   3.7    40   2.2  12,164   5.5
50.50       -    -      -    -       3   0.5     255   1.7      1   0.2      99   03       1   03      65  0.1       7   2.6   6,651  6.2       12  0.7   7.070   32
55.00       -           -             -  -    -    -            -    -        -              --    -                 2   0.7     630   0.6      2   0.1      630   0.3
56.0D
74.00     53 100.0  1,181 100.0   631 100.0  15,091 100.0   479 100.0  29,529 100.0   389 100.0  70,054 100.0   272 100.0  106,690 100.0  1,824 100.0  222,548 100.0
75.00
82.00
83.00
1982                      1983                       1984                       1985                       1986
Canmwzinl Rates       0.707                      1.659                      3.652                     12.620                     17.760



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPDRT
SMLL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT - LOAN 2064-PE
COPIDE - COMPARATIVE BALANCE SiEETS, DECEM8ER 31, 1981 - OECSOM 31, 1988
()illions of Intl.)
1981 a/       1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1937        1988
ASSErS
Current Asets
Cash and Banks                                     8.2        11.7        30.6        50.0       263.3       667.5    1,146.3   16,586.6
Negotiable Investuente                             4.2         4.3         2.6        10.6           -           -           -           -
Current Loans                                     67.7       144.5       361.3       936.6    1.807.7      1.962.3    7,041.6   63,008.3
Interest, Commissions and
Dividends Receivable                             11.3        37.0       131.3       452.6           -           -           -      (257.8)
Provisions for Doubtful Receivables                  -        (9.6)      (33.7)     (107.6)    (341.3)      (367.0)   (1,397.6)  (38,276.7)
Accounts Receivabla fros Afflintos                   -           -        14.5        21.4           -           -           -           -
Other Currant Assts                                1.4         5.7         5.5        11.6           -           -           -           -
Sub-total                                   92.8       193.6       812.1    1,375.2      1,729.7    2,262.8    6,790.3   41,060.4
Accounts Receivable from Afflistes (not curr          -           -       178.3       379.1     1,047.0         2.7         4.5           -
Portfol in Inveseonta
Equity Investments (less provisions)              10.9        52.3        32.3        35.2        72.0    1,754.5    3,241.4    5,936.1
Long-term Loans (1les  provisions)               186.9       348.4       885.0     1,139.9    2,711.5    2,531.7    6,957.7   43,381.8
Sub-total                                  197.8       400.7       897.3     1,175.1    2,783.5    4,286.2   10,199.1   49,317.9
Fi.ed Assts (not of dmpreciati.m)                   0.6         1.6         3.0         5.8        12.5        18.1        38.3       727.0
Other Asets                                         1.8         3.0         4.1         9.4     1,920.3    2,196.0    7,701.3   23,276.0
TOTAL ASSETS                               293.0       598.9     1,294.8    2,944.6    7,493.0    8,765.8   24,733.5  114,381.3
LIABILITIES AND ElYUM
Current Liabilities 
Accounts Payable                                   1.4         1.8        13.0        25.2           -           -           -
Bank Loans, Bonds, Certificates
of Deposits                                      83.1       131.6       329.0       904.5    1,899.5      1,713.4    5,756.7   39,901.6
Intererst, Comissions and
Dividends Payable                                10.9        28.8        73.4       218.9           -           -           -           -
Other Payableas                                    4.3         5.2
Sub-total                                   69.7       167.4       415.4     1,145.6     1,599.5    1,713.4    5,7S6.7   39,901.6
Long-tern Liabilities
Bank Loans, Bond-. Certificates
of Deposits                                     125.5       276.9       841.6    1,313.0    2,797.4    3,503.4    8,691.2   47,735.4
Resources in Adainiatration                        1.2         7.2         2.7        17.2        76.6        65.0       121.0    1,707.0
Provisions for Social Benefits
and Other                                         0.1         0.1         1.9         2.2         4.6         8.3        32.0        89.0
Sub-total                                    1.3         7.3         4.6        19.4        81.2        70.3       153.0    1,796.0
Other Liabilities                                   0.2         0.2         0.3         8.4     1,814.9     1,998.7    7,136.3   20,004.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES                          196.7       451.8    1,061.9      2,483.4    6,293.0    7,288.8   21,737.2  109,437.2
Equ ity
Capital                                           79.7        88.7        97.9       106.1       110.8       127.8       274.6    1,223.8
Resarves                                          10.8        48.5       126.0       349.7    1,063.3      1,317.2    2,544.8    2,467.7
Revalustion Account                                0.4         0.3         1.4         2.6         7.6         1.6         8.9       788.6
Retained Earnings                                  8.4         9.4         7.6         2.8        16.6        43.5       188.0       487.0
Sub-total                                   98.3       147.1       232.9       481.2     1,200.0    1,490.0    2,996.3    4,944.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES ND EWUM                  293.0       898.9     1,294.8    2,944.6    7,493.0    8,775.8   24,733.5  114,381.3
e/ COFIDE implemented a new systea  of accounting during 1981 which did not permit the independent auditors 
to sperate the currant asets and liabilities fros that of the long-tsra. Tho audit report does not reflect this probln      in the balanc. shet.
olnte-- Hinor discrepancie  due to rounding.
eots-- Data is based on the following independent auditors for the corresponding year(s) indicated:
1980/81  Odia Picasso, Tueste y Asociadon
1982-84  Banjaain Calliroos y Asocisdos
1985-87  Rodolfo Retasoio y Asociados
1988    Ale;andro Tue.ta y Asociadne
Although different auditors followed different definitions in their reports an effort eas sds to standardize the presentation of tie
different accounts for the purposes of constructing a comparative balance sheet table over the life of the loan. Therefore, :t is
necessary to .ntarpret this table with caution.



- 33 -
ANNEX 6
PE02
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENtERPRISE PROJECT - LOAN 2064-PE
COFIDE - INCOME STATEN4ENTS 1981-1988
(.n 1,000'. of Int.s)
1981         1982        1983         1984        1985        1986         1987        1q88
INCOME
Ina.C. on Loas.
(inter.*t and co-omions)                27,566       70,725     167.189      476.997   1 204,632     748,169   1,163,100   6.769,711
Oth.e Cuarantse Cou,.. gons
and S-vic* Fees                          1,813        7,748       21,752      56,548
Int.e.st on Bonds
and 0opo-,ts                             5,339
D -id.nd  on In.ost-ant
Po,tfol,o                                2,702        4,778        3,423       1,745
Foreign Exchangs CGane                     3,751                                                                    789.712   7,844,438
Other Incwwo                               2 472       10 626       27 168       8.650     2033         313 559     744 057   2,28898
TOTAL INCOME                            43 643       93 877      219 532     543 940   1 484 967   1 061 728   2 696 869  16 903.137
EXPENDITURES
Intores- and Co.is.,on on
80rrowings                              27,138       62.781      138.454     336.280     810,782      691.688   1,082,824   5.237,274
Adm, .ntrat;na E.ponooo                    4,233         7.242      14.193      27.223      71.745      117.235     325.579   2.655,184
Otho. E.apna.o                                            606        1.106       3,614                              236.355
TOTAL EXPENDITLRES                      31 371       70.629      153 753     367 117     682s52r      808 923   1 644 758   7,8924A
P,of;t bofor. Ta. and Pro,0-0on.          12,272       23.248       65,779     176,823     602,440      252.805   1,052.111   9.010.679
Pro-o;ona                                  4.638        10,089      53.622     166,569     571,201      170,802     858,367   8.387,2s5
PFof.t befor. Ta.                          7.634        13,159      12.157      10.254      31,239       82,003     193,744     623,422
Ta. on Not Worth                           1.944        2,935        4,582       7,395      12,393       38,514
To. on Incoa.                                 74          641                                                        25.749      136.457
NET PROFIT AFTER TAXES                   5,616        9.583        7,575       2.859      18.846       43,489     167,995     486.965
.Not*  D0,crsoanc-a. n dac-nal due to round.ng
.N.tt-- Dat. -a basad on the fol io.ng -ndaendont aud.tor. for the corrasoondng ye,ar(a) rnd,cated
1980/81  Od.a P.casso, Tuesta y Aaoc.dos
1982-84  Bonj,nn Callrgos y Asocados
1985-87  Rodolfo Rot.ozo y Asoc-adoe
1988     Al.jondro T-ata y Aroc,odoa



- 34 -
ANNEX 7
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT - LOAN 2064-PE
COFIDE - FINANCIAL RATIOS:  1981-1988
Amendment
1981    1982    1983    1984     1985    1988    1987    1988
Debt to Equity - Loan Agreement
Sectlon 4.08                         6      7        7       7        7        7       7       7
Debt to Equity1                           3.8    4.5      8.2     8.7       7.0     6.8     9.8    48.89
rrent Assets to Current Liabilities    1.8    1.8       1.2     2.0      1.2      1.6     1.4     2.2
ofits beforo Taxes as  of
Average Total Assets                 2.4    2.8      0.8     0.5      0.6      0.5     1.2     0.9
Return on Equity                          6.8    6.6      8.3     0.6       1.6     2.9    656      9.9
Administrative Expenses as X of
Average Total Assets                 1.8    1.4      1.5    13.7     17.7      8.2    17.6    19.4
Inancial Income (Not of
financial costs) as X of
Average Loan Portfolio              18.9   10.9     11.4    13.7     17.7      8.2    17.6    19.4
ortfolio affected by a
Arrears as X of
Total Portfolio                    n/a    n/a      n/a      81       66      68       43     n/s
Overdue Loans (capital A Interest)
as X of Total Portfolio             10.1  n/a      n/a      28       19      aS       24     n/a
Comments:
The Loan Agreement of Loan 1968-PE Section 4.06 amenoed the D/R s for COFIDE effective for
1982-88.
COFIDE calculated these ratios based on its own accounting records. They do not necessarily reflect the
independently audited balance shoet figures.
* From audited financial reports.
1/ Includes contingent liabilities.



