ii flay                       Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3154-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANCO CENTRAL DE RESERVA DEL PERU
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
November 18, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the differential
between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and currency
equivalents in 1980 and as of October 31, 1981 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (SI.)
Calendar 1980          October 31, 1981
US$1        =           SI. 288.65             SI. 470.12
S/.l                    US$ 0.0035             US$0.0021
S/. 1,000   =           US$ 3.46               US$2.13
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
APEMIPE      -    Asociacion de Pequenas y Medianas Industrias del Peru
(Peruvian Association of Small and Medium Industries)
BCR          -    Banco Central de Reserva del Peru
(Central Bank of Peru)
BIP          -    Banco Industrial del Peru
(Industrial Bank of Peru)
CERTEX       -    Certificado de Reintegro Tributario a la Exportacion
(Export Tax Credit Certificate)
COFIDE       -    Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(State Development Finance Corporation)
ERP          -    Economic Recovery Program
FOGAPAI      -    Fondo de Garantias para Prestamos a la Pequena Industria
(Guarantee Fund for Small Industry Loans)
IDB          -    Inter-American Development Bank
MITI         -    Ministerio de Industria, Turismo e Integracion
(Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Integration)
SSE          -    Small Scale Enterprise
TRB          -    Tasa de Redescuento Bancario
(Central Bank Rediscount Rate)
UNDP         -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID        -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Banco Central de Reserva del Peru (BCR)
Guarantor:                  Republic of Peru
Beneficiaries:              Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE)
and eligible financial intermediaries
Amount:                     US$26.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization
schedule, including 4 years of grace, at 11.6
percent interest per annum.
Relending Terms:            The BCR would assume the foreign exchange risk on
the credit line portion of the Bank loan (US$25.25
million) and onlend the equivalent in soles
as well as an additional US$10 million equivalent
of its own resources to COFIDE. Onlending to
COFIDE would also be for 15 years at the prevailing
Central Bank discount rate (TRB) -- currently 42
percent per annum nominal. The proceeds of the
technical assistance portion of the loan (US$750,000)
would be onlent to COFIDE at the same terms as
the Bank loan.
Project Description:        The proposed loan would provide term resources
for small scale enterprise (SSE) investment projects,
mainly in the manufacturing sector but also including
all productive, commercial and service activities,
except agriculture. It would help finance the
foreign exchange cost of up to 1,500 subprojects
with an estimated total cost of US$50 million and
would help to create up to 10,000 new jobs. The
project would also support Government efforts to
eliminate subsidies and to standardize interest
rates for term lending to SSEs. In addition, it
would strengthen the term lending system for SSEs
by involving a large number of financial inter-
mediaries, thus promoting competition, better
service and a broader regional distribution of
resources. Finally, the proposed loan would help
to finance a technical assistance program within
COFIDE to train loan officers of the participating
intermediaries to better meet the special needs of
their SSE clients and to further develop COFIDE's
own staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Special Risks:               The proposed loan does not face unusual risks.
Term lending to SSEs, however, would be a new
activity for many intermediaries, which may delay
their involvement. For this reason, their spreads
have been structured to make such lending attractive
and the loan officer training program would also
stress appraisal techniques, the problems of SSEs
and the lending and profit opportunities for
financial intermediaries in the SSE sector.
Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ million)
Investment sub-projects         25.00       25.25       50.25
Technical assistance             0.15        0.75        0.90
T 0 T A L            25.15       26.00       51.15
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ million)
Bank (incl. technical
ast_ista -ice)               -          2.OO         26.00
BCR                              1.0.Ou        -          10.00
COFIDE (technical assistance)   G.15           -           0.15
Financial Intermediaries          5.0 J        -           5.00
SSE Beneficiaries                10.0         -          10.00
T 0 T A L             25.15       26.00        51.15
Estimated Disbursements:                        1982   1983    1984    1985
(US$ million by Bank FY)
Annual                          1.00   6.75    10.75    7.50
Cumulative                      1.00   7.75    18.50   26.00
Appraisal Report:            Staff Appraisal Report No. 3578-PE dated
November 16, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE BANCO CENTRAL DE RESERVA DEL PERU (BCR)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Banco Central de Reserva del Peru (BCR) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Peru for the equivalent of US$26.0 million to help finance a small-scale
enterprise project. The proposed loan would be repayable over 15 years,
including 4 years of grace, on a fixed amortization schedule with interest at
11.6 percent per annum. The BCR would assume the foreign exchange risk for
the credit line portion of the proposed loan (US$25.25 million). It would re-
lend the equivalent of this portion in soles, together with an additional US$10
million equivalent of its own resources, to the Corporacion Financiera de
Desarrollo (COFIDE) for 15 years, including 4 years of grace, at the prevailing
Central Bank discount rate (TRB)--currently 42 percent in nominal terms.
COFIDE would onlend these resources to eligible financial intermediaries at
rates of 2 to 4 percent above the TRB, depending on the size of the subloan
to the ultimate beneficiary, at a term equivalent to that of the subloan.
The proceeds of the technical assistance portion of the loan (US$750,000)
would be onlent to COFIDE at the same terms as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues and
Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on those
of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981. Country data sheets
are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by the
Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa), with
46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic activity;
the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's population; and
the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the Andes (Selva). The
country's rugged topography limits trade between the three regions.
4.         6ru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra
and the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in
the northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and
offshore are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascer-
tained. Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in
coastal waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp
fluctuations. Agricultural land is limited, and most of the soils suitable
for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        Crude oil is the dominant source of energy in Peru, supplying
approximately 80 percent of Peru's commercial energy requirements. Although
Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with scope for expanding



- 2 -
hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is expected to remain the
major energy source in Peru through the rest of this century. After having
been dependent on imported crude oil for part of its energy requirements since
the early 1960s, domestic oil production increased almost threefold between
1976 and 1979 to about 200,000 barrels per day, enabling Peru to export oil in
substantial quantities (about 60,000 barrels per day). Despite this encour-
aging production trend, domestic consumption is expected to rebound after
several years of economic stagnation. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum
exporter, therefore, it is of crucial importance to accelerate secondary
recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and to follow rational
pricing policies to contain demand growth. The Government has begun to
address the problem vigorously. Prices for domestically consumed petroleum
products have been increased at regular intervals. In addition, new legislation
was enacted offering special tax incentives to investors, both domestic and
foreign (see para. 20). Response to the tax incentives has been positive.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. In the
early 1960s, however, birth rates started a gradual fall, mainly caused by the
urbanization process and by improved education. But with declining death
rates, population has continued to grow at about 2.7 percent p.a. and is
currently estimated at about 17 million. It is expected that population
growth will fall only slightly to about 2.4 percent p.a. over the next 20
years, unless an effective population control policy is adopted. The Govern-
ment is conscious of the need to slow down Peru's demographic growth rate and
is now developing a primary health care program which would contain a family
planning component. The urban population is increasing at 4.3 percent p.a.,
and about a quarter of all Peruvians live in the Lima area. Given the
structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected to grow in excess
of 3 percent per year during the next 20 years.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth, not only on the
individual level but also between regions. To achieve these goals, the first
military Government expanded the role of the State in the economy, changed the
pattern of asset ownership, reduced foreign ownership of national resources,
oriented industry and agriculture toward production of essential goods for the
domestic market, stimulated regional deconcentration, and reformed the educa-
tional system. Through nationalization and creation of new enterprises, the
State took direct control of key economic sectors. Moreover, the Government
imposed complex legislation to control the operations of the private sector.
8.        The pattern of asset ownership in the economy changed drastically.
Through nationalization, the share of foreign-owned assets fell sharply. A
sweeping land reform redistributed 49 percent of the country's best farmland
to workers' cooperatives comprising some 30 percent of all rural families.
Through other laws, industrial workers were given shares in their employers'
firms and, in the mining sector, a share in profits. While these actions
benefited large numbers of Peruvians, they barely reached the poorest groups,
which continue to live in abject poverty. It is estimated, for example, that



- 3 -
almost three quarters of rural families--mostly "minifundistas" (those farming
less than 2 ha) and landless seasonal workers--were not reached by social
programs. Moreover, subsidies were given to products that were more important
in the consumption basket of high and middle-income groups than in that of the
poorest groups. Artificially low prices for some products actually hurt the
poor who produced these items, and affected production negatively. Although
many of the policies and structural changes carried out after 1968 were meant
to achieve rapid growth and more equality, their cost proved to be excessive
and their implementation inefficient.
9.        Between 1968 and 1977, the Government followed expansionary fiscal
and credit policies. A rapid increase in expenditures was not matched by a
parallel increase in revenues. Public sector savings dropped steadily in
relation to GDP from 4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in
1977. As a result, aggregate demand considerably exceeded aggregate supply
resulting in strong inflationary pressures and widening external gaps.
10.       Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977.  Interest rates, however, remained substantially negative in real
terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating capital flight. Moreover,
the exchange rate remained practically constant between 1968 and 1975, thus
contributing to the overall disequilibrium. National savings fell dramatic-
ally from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent in 1977, when they financed
only about one-half of investment.
11.       The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of payments.
The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in 1974-77,
equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this deficit, Peru accum-
ulated a massive external debt. At year-end 1977, Peru's total private and
public external debt--including short-term indebtedness--stood at almost
US$8.3 billion, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and almost four times annual
exports of goods and non-factor services. Three-fourths of the US$6.4 billion
long-term public sector debt (including undisbursed) was scheduled to be
repaid over the 1978-82 period.
12.       Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion during which GDP
grew by more than 6 percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. In this two-year period, GDP per capita
dropped by over 6 percent and unemployment and underemployment rose to almost
60 percent of the labor force, up from less than 50 percent during the early
1970s. According to Government estimates, the purchasing power of the average
salary had fallen 40 percent by 1978 compared to 1970 and that of the average
wage by over 16 percent.
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
13.       From 1975 on, several unsuccessful attempts were made to cope
with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation
approaching 100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was
finding it increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports
and the banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative



- 4 -
level of US$800 million. Financial instability had reached the point where
practically all economic activities were adversely affected. The public
sector was fast approaching the point where it would no longer be able to
fully service its external debt. Peru was no longer creditworthy.
14.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF for SDR 184 million. In July 1979, this stand-by
was replaced by a new one for SDR 285 million as continued support of the
stabilization program. Peru's debt outstanding to the IMF as of September 30,
1981 amounted to SDR 589.8 million.
15.       Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1 bil-
lion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (see para. 18), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
16.       To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP) which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stabilization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by broad-
ening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource allocation
in the private and public sectors. Import liberalization was the most im-
portant element of the ERP and is expected to have salutary long-term effects
on resource allocation and on prices. The Government also drew up a public
sector investment program that aimed at redirecting investment towards projects
of clear economic priority and with positive effects on production and employ-
ment. In support of the ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million program loan
in May 1979. The carrying out of the ERP was generally satisfactory. Perform-
ance in some critical areas--e.g., export promotion and import liberalization--
actually exceeded expectations. In other areas--e.g., improvements in the
quality of public investment and in raising interest rates--progress was more
modest.
17.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979. Central
Government revenues increased by 23 percent in real terms, while current
outlays declined by 6 percent. Payments for wages and salaries alone fell by
some 7 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a reduction in excessive
civil service employment. Public sector current account savings rose from
-0.5 percent of GDP in 1978 to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the
overall deficit was reduced from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in
1979. In spite of the good fiscal performance, however, inflationary pressures
remained strong, with consumer price increases of 67 percent in 1979 and of
59 percent in 1980.
18.       The implementation of stabilization measures and of the ERP had
a positive impact on the balance of payments. Moreover, an increase in
petroleum exports, substantial price increases for silver, copper, petroleum,
and other commodities, as well as the relatively low level of imports because



- 5 -
of the recession contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance of
payments in 1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the net reserve position was
estimated at about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about 4 months of imports.
Peru also made greater use of assistance from official bilateral and inter-
national sources thus improving the structure of its external debt. The
short-term debt of less than one year was sharply reduced from US$1.8 billion
at year-end 1978 to US$0.8 billion at year-end 1980. Real GDP growth rebounded
to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980, growth dropped slightly to 3.1 percent owing,
in part, to a drought which affected the agricultural sector.
Recent Developments and Outlook
19.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitution,
written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were held in
May 1980, and following his electoral victory, President Fernando Belaunde was
inaugurated on July 28, 1980. The new Government faced a challenging economic
and social situation with a number of acute problems which had been somewhat
disguised by the apparently solid financial situation: underlying inflation
had been higher than reported because of price controls and deferred price
adjustments for public goods and services; the public sector deficit had been
reduced by freezing expenditures for economic and social services, and the
rigid expenditure structure did not leave much margin for any significant
reallocation of funds to high priority areas; the balance of payments showed a
substantial surplus, but this was partly due to high commodity prices and to
the fact that import levels were depressed; moreover, income distribution had
deteriorated over the past several years resulting in increased social unrest.
20.       The Government named a capable economic team which is committed
to economic efficiency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of
State-owned enterprises) , promotion of the private sector (including foreign
investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the benefits
of development. Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, in
particular, distinguish the present Government's philosophy and economic
program from that of its predecessors. During its first year in office, the
Government took vigorous measures to address many pressing problems. It was
successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating non-tariff
barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time, export incentives were
streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the system more responsive
to exports of products with high manufactured content. The Government also
enacted new legislation for the agricultural, mining and petroleum sectors
offering greater financial incentives to investors. Finally, it made signif-
icant institutional changes in the financial sector, revised the interest rate
structure through substantial upward adjustments, and recently introduced
a new banking law in parliament which would allow further rationalization and
liberalization of the financial system.
21.       In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made headway in
correcting major price distortions. Food subsidies were greatly reduced and
controlled agricultural prices adjusted to international levels. The marketing
of agricultural products was liberalized, and public utility and petroleum
prices were adjusted at regular intervals. Moreover, the Government endeavored
to rationalize public investment and its financing -- an effort that was
supported by a Bank sponsored Consultative Group meeting in May 1981.



- 6 -
22.       The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen public
sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for example,
was granted greater autonomy by transforming these enterprises into State-owned
limited liability corporations operating under private law. This measure permits
these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff compensation and,
thus, helps them to recruit or to retain capable personnel. Many of the above
measures have already had positive short-term effects, and they have laid the
ground for medium-term structural adjustments of the Peruvian economy.
23.       In spite of the above policy initiatives, economic performance in
1981 has been lagging behind expectations with growth of production and employ-
ment still being sluggish. The balance of payments deteriorated substantially
as a result of declining export prices, high interest rates on the country's
debt with commercial banks, and a rapid expansion of imports. The loss in net
reserves is expected to amount to about US$1 billion, equivalent to about 5
percent of GDP. A major factor in the deterioration of the balance of payments
has also been the large public sector deficit which is expected to reach about
8 percent of GDP. On the positive side, however, inflation has decelerated
during the past few months to an annual rate of about 50 percent, mostly
because of the openness of the economy and the price dampening effects
from an increase in imports.
24.       Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the major
challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated export
situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the deficit is mostly the
result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging adjustments of
petroleum and rice prices. Excess expenditures over initial budget allocations
were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser priority. To tackle
the difficult public finance situation, the Government is drawing up a restric-
tive financial program for 1982 with tight credit ceilings and limits to
foreign indebtedness. It is also expected that the Government will trim the
public investment program in line with its investment priorities. The Bank
has an ongoing frank dialogue with the Peruvian Government on these issues.
25.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management and commodity prices, the country is expected to experience economic
growth of about 5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation during the next two years. The balance of payments situation could,
however, become precarious, if the exportable surplus of oil declines. While
measures are being undertaken to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase
manufactured exports, these are endeavors with medium-term results which may
not come in time to countervail the potential foreign exchange shortfalls.
Against this background, there is a continuing need for official development
assistance. Taking the above factors into account, considering an expected
debt service ratio hovering around the 30 percent mark and assuming that the
authorities continue the initiated course of economic policies, Peru is
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
26.       The Bank has approved 43 loans to Peru for a total amount of US$934.4
million, net of cancellations. About 30 percent of the Bank's lending to
Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 19 percent for



- 7 -
agriculture, 17 percent for the energy sector, 16 percent for mining and
industry, about 6 percent for education and urban development and 12 percent
for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979.
27.       As of September 30, 1981, US$360.9 million was undisbursed on Bank
loans currently in execution. (Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of September 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.)
Disbursements on Bank financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s, primarily
because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of counterpart funds
that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this period. In an effort to
improve disbursements: (i) the Bank opened a resident mission in Peru and
restructured a number of slow moving projects; (ii) the Government took steps
to provide adequate counterpart funds for Bank-financed projects; and (iii) the
Government also set up a special commission to monitor loan execution and
resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit. About
US$44.0 million was disbursed on project loans in FY1980 and US$70.5 million
during FY1981. This compares with average yearly disbursements of only US$27.5
million during FY1977-79.
28.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i) the
creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster economic
development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial sectors,
i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strengthening, through
technical assistance loans and regular operations, of local capacity to
prepare, implement and operate projects effectively; and (iv) the improvement
of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank lending
concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More
recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields
-- mining, petroleum, agriculture and industry -- to help Peru to strengthen
its balance of payments. Lending for social projects has also grown. As part
of its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a Consultative Group Meeting for
Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government arrange financing for its
public investment program. The next operations that would be ready for the
Executive Directors consideration include projects in road improvement and
rehabilitation, petroleum, power, agricultural research and extension, and
water supply. The Bank is also considering a technical assistance loan to
help strengthen public sector management.
29.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 5.8 percent of Peru's total public
external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980, and absorbed about
2.6 percent of the country's external debt service in 1980. Assuming increased
recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid by Peru, the Bank's share
in the country's outstanding public foreign debt by 1985 could reach about 10 per-
cent, and its share of debt-service would be around 4.5 percent.
30.       IFC commitments as of September 30, 1981 were US$38.3 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$15.9 million are held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of September 30,
1981 is presented in Annex II. The IFC is now considering assistance for
a leasing project and a palm oil venture.



- 8 -
31.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). Total loan commitments as of December 31, 1980 by IDB
and USAID were US$652.4 million and US$348.6 million, respectively, and their
shares of debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6 percent and 0.5
percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is expected to emphasize
lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale irrigation.
USAID is expected to stress rural development and health.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING, SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE,
AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Manufacturing Sector
32.       Performance and Structural Features:  From the mid-1950s to the end
of the 1970s, the manufacturing sector's contribution to Peru's GDP grew from
about 20 to 25 percent. Its share in employment currently amounts to 5-6 percent.
Growth of the sector during the past decade largely depended on the domestic
market and was subject to strong fluctuations, which mirrored those of the
whole economy. During 1969-74, sectoral production grew at an average annual
rate of 6.6 percent in real terms, well above GDP growth of 4.8 percent.
During 1975-78, sectoral growth slowed down because of the economic crisis
referred to in Part I of this report and, during 1977-78, it dropped to minus
4 percent. During 1979-80, as the economy rebounded, the sector resumed
growth at annual rates of about 4 and 6 percent, respectively. Industrial
investment, much of which was made by public enterprises (e.g., petroleum,
basic metals, metal working), also fluctuated widely during the 1970s.
33.       The manufacturing sector in Peru is diversified.  Industrial poli-
cies pursued during the past decade led to strong expansion of intermediate
goods industries such as textiles and chemicals. In 1978, among the principal
manufacturing categories, traditional consumer goods industries (e.g., food
and beverage processing, tobacco, clothing, footwear, furniture) accounted for
about 40 percent of manufacturing value added, the chemical and related
industries (incl. petroleum refineries) accounted for another 30 percent and
metal processing industries for some 15 percent. About 85 percent of the
industrial firms in Peru are small with less than 50 employees, but over 80
percent of production is concentrated in larger firms employing over 50
persons. Manufacturing is heavily concentrated in the Lima-Callao area, by
far Peru's largest market. The Lima area accounts for about 70 percent of the
number of firms, employment and output. Other industrial centers of importance
are Arequipa in the south and Trujillo, Chimbote and Piura in the north. With
the exception of Arequipa and Trujillo, industries outside the Lima-Callao area
mainly process locally available raw materials such as sugarcane, bagasse,
cotton and fish.
34.       While the private sector accounts for over 90 percent of the number
of industrial firms and for about two thirds of output and employment,
the State's role in manufacturing is substantial. State-owned enterprises
accounted for one third of output in 1978, mostly in tobacco, paper, petroleum
refining, cement, iron and steel, and non-ferrous metals. The current Government



- 9 -
is firmly committed to promoting the private sector, including foreign invest-
ment (see para 20). Its general policy of decontrol and divestiture of
state-owned industries is expected to result in the further revival of private
investment and in a lessening of direct Government involvement in the industrial
sector.
35.       Net direct foreign investment averaging US$110 million per year during
1975-80 has been mostly concentrated in petroleum and mining; about 18 percent
went into other sectors, mainly industry and commerce. In 1980, direct foreign
investment in the industrial sector amounted to some US$20 million -- a volume
that slightly exceeded the average of the preceding five years. The resumption
of economic growth and the change in the Government's attitude towards the
private sector are expected to result in a revival of industrial sector
investment, including direct foreign investment. Employment has closely
followed the growth of production, with the exception of 1977-78 when overall
industrial production declined and employment continued to grow slightly. It
is estimated that during 1979-81 about 80,000 new industrial jobs were created
-- an addition of about 13 percent or 4 percent per year.
36.       Industrial and Trade Policies:  Until the mid-1970s, Peru followed
the import substitution approach to industrial development providing high
tariff protection -- supplemented by import prohibitions for a large number
of products -- generous fiscal incentives, and credit on relatively favorable
conditions. Although export incentives in the form of negotiable export
tax credit certificates (CERTEX) were introduced on a small scale in 1970,
industrial development was inward-oriented and manufactured exports were
insignificant. Beginning in 1970, tariffs were gradually replaced by non-tariff
barriers including import licensing, prohibitions, state monopolies and, in
particular, the National Register of Manufactures. Imports competing with
goods produced by Peruvian industries on the Register were banned. By early
1979, the share of items subject to non-tariff barriers had grown to about
60 percent, with half these items on the Register.
37.       A major reorientation of industrial policies took place in connection
with the 1978 ERP mentioned in Part I (para 16). The complex system of non-
tariff protection was dismantled and replaced by a new tariff system. In addition,
more vigorous export promotion efforts were undertaken along with a more flexible
exchange rate policy, which complemented an increase in CERTEX introduced in
1976. These policy changes -- together with a declining domestic market because
of the recession -- resulted in an important reorientation of industrial
development, with a large increase in the value of manufactured exports from
US$200 million in 1977 to almost US$800 million in 1980 (equivalent to about 8
percent of output). Textiles and fish products accounted for most of this increase.
38.       The present Government has accelerated the import liberalization
process by further eliminating administrative barriers (including the whole
system of import licensing) and by reducing tariffs. At present, the
unweighted average of tariffs is close to 30 percent, with the maximum
tariff at 60 percent. The Government is committed to reduce tariffs further
over a period of three to five years through successive cuts and to make
the tariff structure more uniform. It also revised the CERTEX system in
February 1981 to correct abuses and make it more responsive to the goal of



- 10 -
February 1981 to correct abuses and make it more responsive to the goal of
industrial development and growth of manufactured exports. Moreover, the
exchange rate is being adjusted about in line with the differential between
domestic and international inflation.
39.       The continuation of these policies, together with the general process
of decontrol, should provide the appropriate framework for sustained growth of
industrial investment, production and exports. Small-scale industry is expected
to play an active role in this process; recent production trends indicate that
small industries have benefited from the import liberalizatition process through
access to lower-priced imports of raw materials and intermediate goods.
40.       The Small-Scale Enterprise Sub-Sector:  Small industrial firms, the most
important type of small-scale enterprises (SSE) in terms of employment and value
added, are legally defined for purposes of the application of labor and incentive
legislation as private sector enterprises with sales up to the equivalent of 590
legal minimum wages, or about US$500,000. Production by such firms is concentrated
in consumer goods, mainly processed foods, textiles and clothing in the lower
price and quality ranges. The Government has given high priority to assisting
small-scale industry. It has recently introduced a proposed new indusrial law
in Congress which would improve the business climate for such firms by liberaliz-
ing labor legislation, simplyfing registration procedures and unifying the
taxes levied on small firms.
41.       In 1975, small-scale industrial enterprises with 5 to 49 employees
accounted for 87 percent of Peru's 7500 manufacturing firms in the formal
sector (i.e., those with more than five employees), for 34 percent of total
formal sector employment, and for 21 percent of the sector's value added. By
1980, the number of such enterprises had grown to about 10,000. In addition,
there are currently over 30,000 firms with less than five employees. Thus,
the total number of small industrial enterprises is estimated to be in excess
of 40,000, about half of which are located outside of Lima. With the average
employment per firm estimated at about six persons, small industrial enterprises
currently provide an estimated 240,000 jobs, or about one-half of total
industrial employment. The average investment cost per job (excluding land)
is about US$5,000 equivalent. In addition to industrial SSEs, there are a large
but undertermined number of SSEs in services, e.g., commerce and tourism.
42.       Survey data comparing efficiency by firm size suggest that with
lower wages and social benefits--because firms with undez five employees are
not subject to minimum wage requirements and employ many family members --
small industrial enterprises seem to be reasonably competitive with larger
ones. Rough estimates of the gross return to capital show little difference
between SSEs and larger firms. These estimates suggest that small firms with
15-19 employees and large firms with 500-900 employees are the most efficient
in capital utilization.
43.       Institutional Framework:  The most important institutions shaping
industrial sector policy are the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce --
which sets trade, tax and overall economic policies -- and the Ministry of
Industry, Tourism, and Integration (MITI), which is responsible for administer-
ing the system of incentives. Within the private sector, two trade associations
stand out for their influence on public opinion and the design of sectoral
policies: the Association of Industries and the Association of Exporters.



- 11 -
There are two major associations of SSEs at the national level: the Small
Scale Industry Committee within the Association of Industries and the much
larger Peruvian Association of Small and Medium Industries (APEMIPE). In
addition, a number of local associations have been recently established in
several departments outside Lima.
44.       Technical Assistance:  SSEs suffer from a wide range of managerial
and technical problems including inadequate financial management and cost
accounting; limited market knowledge, particularly for exports; inadequate
quality control; and weaknesses in purchasing, inventory control, production
planning and labor management. To help deal with these problems a variety of
institutions in Peru offer, or are developing, a wide range of technical
assistance services to SSEs, with emphasis on small industry. The five
principal institutions catering to the needs of SSEs are:
(i)   The Government's National Industrial Labor Training Service, which
runs vocational and management training and advisory programs --
principally in Lima, Arequipa and Trujillo -- with assistance
from the German and Dutch Governments;
(ii) the Government's National Industrial Technological Research and
Standards Institute, which provides technical information to SSEs,
mostly on production and quality control problems;
(iii) the Industrial Bank of Peru, which provides technical assistance,
primarily on financial matters, in conjunction with its lending
operations;
(iv) the Pacific University, which is setting up a management
training and advisory service for SSEs and is considering
establishing a program for the training of industrial
extension workers, project analysts and loan officers;
and
(v) the Superior School of Business Administration, a management
training institute, which is planning to set up a training
program and advisory services for SSE owners/ managers.
In addition, executive committees have been established by local authorities
and trade associations in Arequipa, Trujillo and Piura to promote and coor-
dinate the extension of technical assistance activities to their area.
45.       On the whole, existing programs and those now being developed
would be adequate to meet the technical assistance needs of SSEs in Peru.
These programs, however, need to be better coordinated to avoid duplication,
some gaps in technical assistance need to be filled, and there is a need for
better promotion to make SSEs aware of the programs available. A consensus
has been reached -- among MITI, APEMIPE, and most institutions providing
technical assistance -- on the need to create a small but effective semi-
autonomous institute to coordinate the assistance programs of the various
specialized institutions and to identify gaps that need to be filled. Plans are
now being drawn up for this purpose by MITI. Such an institute or a similar
coordinating mechanism, while being useful, is not critical to the provision of
adequate technical assistance for SSEs under the proposed project. It is more



- 12 -
important at this time to promote the utilization of existing technical assis-
tance services. To this end, the technical assistance component of the SSE
project recommended in this report would include a program for training loan
officers of participating financial intermediaries in the evaluation of the
technical assistance needs of SSEs and to guide their clients to the most
appropriate source of services.
The Financial Sector
46.       Institutional Setting:  The financial sector in Peru includes the
Central Bank (BCR), the principal authority on monetary matters; the Banco
de la Nacion, the Central Government's fiscal agent; 20 commercial banks
including six regional banks; COFIDE, the Government's principal development
finance institution; and five specialized development banks, including the
Industrial Bank of Peru. In addition, there are 10 finance companies, 17 savings
and loan associations, 20 insurance companies and a large number of small
savings cooperatives and credit unions. Commercial banks account for about
one-third of the total assets of the financial system.
47.       Until 1978, the Government played an increasingly important role in the
financial system. It owned three commercial banks, the development banks and
COFIDE. In addition, it regulated commercial bank credit channelled to priority
sectors and regions. Although it has not divested any of its bank holdings,
Central Government involvement in banking has been gradually reduced since 1978,
and the Central Bank has again become the governing authority on monetary matters.
In recent years, the Central Bank also operated a number of special development
funds, which were transfered to COFIDE in November 1980, in line with the
Government's policy of making COFIDE the major wholesaler for term resources.
48.       The commercial banks handle short-term banking operations.  Currently,
they operate about 690 offices, two-thirds of which are located in the Lima area.
The industrial sector has traditionally received the major share of commercial
bank credit. Confined by law to short-term lending, all but one of the domestic
commercial banks have established finance company subsidiaries (financieras)
to provide medium-term financing. While the six regional banks, which have 80
branch offices, operate as commercial banks focussing on the promotion of
economic development in their respective regions, they are authorized, -- unlike
commercial banks -- to make loans with maturities of up to five years. The
five State-owned development banks provide specialized services, including
term lending, for industry, agriculture, mining, and housing. Although these
banks are authorized to accept deposits, they have mostly relied on funds from
the Central Bank and foreign borrowings.
49.       COFIDE, the agency which would oversee the proposed project's
execution, was established in 1971 as a State-owned industrial development
institution and has focused on financing medium- and large-scale industrial
projects, particularly those of public enterprises. It serves as the
channel for the Bank-financed first and second industrial credit projects
(Loans 1358-PE of 1977 and 1968-PE of 1981). Although COFIDE has been
successful in mobilizing domestic resources by issuing high yielding bonds
with special tax benefits, it also relies on foreign currency borrowings
and Central Bank credit. It has recently strengthened its wholesale credit
function by setting up a specialized division for this purpose. This division
will handle second-tier operations under the second industrial credit project.
COFIDE has also set up an SSE unit within this division to manage the proposed
project.



- 13 -
50.       Resource Mobilization and Interest Rates:  Financial savings in
Peru are mainly marshalled by the banking system, which at year-end 1980
held about 85 percent of all financial liabilities (including demand deposits)
with the private sector. These liabilities include savings and time deposits,
various types of bonds, mortgage certificates, and certificates of deposit.
The latter are both sol and dollar denominated. The non-banking system
uses the same instruments (except for dollar denominated certificates of
deposit). In addition, insurance policies constitute an important form of
financial savings, and bonds and stocks are issued in limited numbers by
non-financial institutions.
51.       During most of the seventies, deposit and lending interest rates
in local currency were negative in real terms. Despite major upward adjustments
in 1978, effective lending rates amounted to some 50 percent in 1980, compared
to an inflation rate of 60 percent. Effective deposit rates were in the 35 to
40 percent range, with some instruments, like certificates of deposit and time
deposits over two years with financieras, offering rates which were about
five points higher. In early January 1981, the Central Bank undertook a full
revision and simplification of the interest rate structure--including an
upward adjustment of deposit rates to close to 60 percent and lending rates to
over 60 percent. This was about in line with the expected rate of inflation
for CY 1981. During the first five months of 1981, however, inflation -- because
of major corrective price adjustments -- exceeded this target running at an
annual rate of about 80 percent. Since June it has moderated to an annual rate
of some 50 percent. Currently, therefore, interest rates are positive in real
terms, and it is BCR's stated policy to maintain positive rates.
52.       In July 1981, indexation was introduced by Presidential Decree.
Congressional ratification, which is required, is now being considered.
Under this system, financial intermediaries could offer, on an optional basis,
loans with maturities of more than one year whose principal is indexed.
The objective of this system is to protect the value of the loan principal
while offering term loans with reduced debt-service obligations during
the early years. Indexation may only come into use slowly, as financial
institutions would need indexed resources before contemplating important
volumes of indexed lending. The only such resources currently available are
limited BCR credit lines.
53.       Term-Lending to SSEs:  SSEs tend not to participate in the formal
financial system, and their access to term financing has not been adequate.
One-third of a recent sample of 248 small firms (with over five employees)
surveyed did not have relations with any financial intermediary, and only
147 firms had received loans from any source during the last ten years, with
an average loan size of about US$10,000 equivalent. About 55 percent of the
total amount of these loans came from banks, while the remainder came from
other sources. Significantly, however, about 80 percent of the loans dated
from the last three years, showing an increasing use of resources external to
the firm. It is estimated that SSE demand for term resources in the 1982-83
period would be about US$100 million, approximately 40 percent of which would
be financed by the proposed project. The balance would come from new resources
to be mobilized by the State-owned Industrial Bank of Peru (BIP), the principal
lender to SSEs, and from repayments on BIP's current SSE portfolio.
54.       In past years, the BIP has been the main institution channelling
term resources to the SSE sector. Its 1980 loan approvals amounted to US$127
million equivalent, of which 35 percent was for SSEs. Over the years, BIP has



- 14 -
developed a high degree of institutional expertise in SSE term lending,
although its loan appraisals and processing tend to be time consuming. More-
over, BIP suffers from organizational deficiencies, overstaffing and lack
of experience in resource mobilization, since most of its funds come from
Government transfers. In fact, the major reason for BIP's high level of SSE
lending has been the availability of subsidized Government funds and low-cost
resources from IDB and USAID. A new management, in office since February
1981, is addressing these problems.
55.       In addition to BIP, SSEs have received financing from a number
of specialized rediscount lines established within the BCR during the last
three years and recently transferred to COFIDE. Since these resources
were limited, the volume of financing available to SSEs through them was
marginal. They did serve the purpose, however, of introducing financial
intermediaries to SSE term lending, and the response was good. The main
barrier to such lending has been the limited amount of resources at terms
competitive with those offered under BIP's subsidized credit lines.
56.       Since the upward adjustment and homogenization of the interest
rate structure (including BIP's rates) in January 1981, financial inter-
mediaries appear ready to lend to smaller size enterprises. With a network of
770 branch offices, commercial and regional banks have a high potential for
providing investment credit to SSEs, and they already have some experience
with SSEs through short-term operations. The proposed project would be the
first major source of non-subsidized funds for SSE term lending available to
the whole financial system and would thus help establish a broad-based credit
system to serve SSEs.
57.       Previous Bank Activities and Strategy:  The Bank has made two
industrial credit loans to COFIDE for US$35 million in 1977 (Loan 1358-PE)
and for US$60 million in April 1981 (Loan 1968-PE). In addition, it made a
US$2.5 million loan for a cement plant in 1955, which was successfully completed,
and a US$5.0 million loan for technical assistance in 1980 to SIDERPERU, a public
steel enterprise. Bank support of the ERP through the program loan of 1979 was
instrumental in bringing about important changes in trade policies (see para. 16).
Finally, the Bank has supported the development of the mining sector through
two projects: the US$39.7 million CENTROMIN loan of 1976 for a mine water
treatment plant and copper mine expansion and the US$7.5 million engineering
loan of June 1980 for the Bayovar phosphate project.
58.       The first industrial credit project got off to a slow start because
of the 1977-78 recession in Peru and the requirement that the final borrower
assume the full exchange risk. With improvement in economic conditions and
COFIDE's agreement to finance projects identified by other financial institu-
tions, however, performance improved. The loan is now almost fully committed
and disbursements as of September 30, 1981 amounted to US$26.4 million. The
subprojects financed have covered a wide range of subsectors including:
chemicals, textiles, metals, fish products, metal products and others. The
project has helped to support an estimated total investment volume of about
US$100 million, which has helped to create about 4,000 jobs. The loan for
the second project was signed in August 1981, and COFIDE is now beginning to
evaluate loan applications.
59.       The medium- and large-scale investment projects financed under the
Bank's first credit operation have had a limited employment creation effect.



- 15 -
This experience is expected to be repeated under the second credit project.
In order to support Government efforts to deal with Peru's serious employment
problem, therefore, Bank lending under the proposed project would focus on
small-scale firms, whose average investment per job is expected to be about
US$5,000 compared with US$25,000 for larger firms. The proposed project also
help to strengthen the financial system catering to the SSE sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
60.       The project was identified in December 1980 and was mostly prepared
by COFIDE, with assistance from Bank staff. Appraisal took place in May 1981
and a post-appraisal mission visited Peru in August 1981. The appraisal
mission's report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Small Scale Enterprise
Project (No. 3578-PE dated November 16, 1981), is being distributed separately.
Annex III contains a Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations were held
in Washington from October 21-26, 1981. The Peruvian Delegation was headed by
Mr. Henry Barclay, Assistant Manager, Central Bank.
Project Objectives and Description
61.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) create an institutional system, involving a large number of financial
intermediaries, to provide term credit to SSEs in order to increase
the flow of resources to this sector and improve service and, thus,
complement the first and second industrial credit projects for
medium and large industry;
(b) increase the flow of term credit to SSEs outside of Lima in order
to support regional development, through the involvement in the
project of regional banks and commercial banks with extensive
branch systems;
(c) support the Government's policy towards financial intermediation
based on non-subsidized interest rates and standardized financial
terms and conditions and lending policies for SSEs;
(d) improve the capability of financial intermediaries to service
SSEs and to provide guidance to them on existing technical assistance
services through a training program sponsored by COFIDE for loan
officers of financial intermediaries; and
(e) support the institutional development of COFIDE through a technical
assistance program aimed at the training of COFIDE's staff.
62.       The project would consist of a US$35.25 million credit line to financial
intermediaries (US$25.25 million from the Bank loan and US$10 million from the
BCR) to support up to 1,500 SSE investment projects in the areas of industry
commerce and services. Such projects would an estimated total cost of US$50
million and would create up to 10,000 jobs. In addition, the project includes
a US$900,000 technical assistance program, the foreign exchange component of
which (estimated at US$750,000) would be financed by the Bank. The technical



- 16 -
assistance component comprises three elements: (i) training of staff of financial
intermediaries through courses and seminars organized by COFIDE to sensitize
them to SSE needs; (ii) a young executive development program within COFIDE
including inservice training and scholarships for post-graduate studies
abroad; and (iii) training of COFIDE staff in mobilizing foreign resources and
in project financing, including the design of cofinancing packages.
Project Execution and Participating Institutions
63.        The proposed loan would be made to the BCR with the guarantee of
the Republic of Peru. The BCR would assume the exchange risk for the credit
line portion of the Bank loan (US$25.25 million equivalent) and onlend in soles
the proceeds of this portion of the loan plus US$10 million equivalent of its
own resources to COFIDE, the agency that would manage the project. In its role
as wholesaler for Government development credit programs, COFIDE would channel
these funds through participating financial intermediaries to the final borrowers.
COFIDE would also be in charge of carrying out the US$900,000 technical assistance
program.
a.   COFIDE
64.        COFIDE has competent and experienced management and staff and its
project appraisal and supervision activities are satisfactory. The operation
would be managed by the SSE unit of the Financial Intermediaries Division.
COFIDE's comprehensive policy statement and operating procedures are satis-
factory, but must be amended to cover SSE lending through financial inter-
mediaries by spelling out, e.g., SSE and intermediary eligibility requirements,
criteria for lending and procedures for subloan processing and approval.
Drafts of these amendments were reviewed during project appraisal. The approval
by COFIDE's Board of Directors of SSE policies, and by COFIDE's management of the
procedures for SSE lending, both satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (Sections 6.01 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.        COFIDE's financial structure and liquidity are good.  In 1980, it had
a debt/equity ratio of about 75/25 and a current ratio of 1.6 to 1. COFIDE's
total loan and investment portfolio reached US$785 million equivalent at year-end
1980. Arrears and provisions for bad debts and losses in value of the investments
portfolio were satisfactory. COFIDE's profitability, although improving during
recent years, has remained low. In 1980, net profits after taxes were equivalent
to only 4.5 percent of equity. In January 1981, however, COFIDE's management
approved a new structure of interest rates and guarantee fees that will allow
a more adequate return on equity. With this new structure and the divestiture
of equity investments in nationalized basic industries that was agreed upon in
conjuction with the second industrial credit project, the Bank estimates that
COFIDE's financial position will remain good and that its return on equity
will gradually increase to more satisfactory levels.
b.   Other Participating Intermediaries
66.        All financial intermediaries legally established in Peru and in good
standing with the BCR would be eligible to participate in the proposed project.
Because if existing limitations (see para. 48), commercial and regional banks
would require authorization from BCR to make loans with maturities exceeding one
and five years respectively at the applicable term-lending rate. The issuance
of this authorization for purposes of the project would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). COFIDE would



- 17 -
sign contracts, satisfactory to the Bank, with intermediaries interested in
participating in the project, and these agreements would provide the basis
for their involvement (Section 3.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Financial Intermediaries Division of COFIDE would ensure that the inter-
mediaries meet the conditions set forth in COFIDE's policies for financial
intermediation, particularly those related to financial soundness and
project appraisal capabilities.
67.       In order to improve each participating intermediary's capability to
service SSEs, COFIDE would, from time to time and as necessary, carry out a
training program satisfactory to the Bank for their loan officers and this
program would be initiated by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The training program would upgrade the appraisal capabilities of
loan officers and familiarize them with the problems and needs of SSE. With
the greater knowledge of their clients and of the profit opportunities in a
healthy and growing SSE subsector, which these courses are expected to provide,
financial intermediaries can improve SSE support and provide guidamce to them
on the effective use of existing technical assistance services.
Cost and Financing
68.       The total cost of the investments to be financed with the subloans
expected to be made under the proposed project is estimated at about US$50 million
equivalent, of which about US$25 million represents the foreign exchange cost
that would be covered by the Bank loan. The local costs of the subprojects
would be financed by BCR (US$10 million equivalent), financial intermediaries
(US$5 million equivalent) and the ultimate beneficiaries (US$10 million equiva-
lent). The technical assistance program is estimated to cost an additional
US$900,000. The foreign exchange costs associated with the technical assistance
component, amounting to US$750,000, would be financed out of the proceeds of the
Bank loan; local costs would be financed by COFIDE.
Eligible Beneficiaries and Lending Limits
69.       Enterprises with annual sales of not more than US$750,000 equivalent
and fixed assets, excluding land, of not more than US$300,000 equivalent and
operating in any productive, commercial or service activity except agriculture
and livestock would be eligible for financing under the project (Section 1.02 (d)
of the draft Loan Agreement). For the average firm, the sales and assets
limits are basically equivalent. Moreover, the sales limit is in line with
the definition used in the draft industrial law now before Congress, and the
assets limit is equivalent to the statistical definition of small firms with
employment of up to 49 persons. The maximum investment eligible for financing
under the project would be US$200,000 (Section 1.02 (e) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Based on experience with existing SSE lending, it is expected that the
average subloan size would be about US$25,000.
Terms and Conditions
70.       The proposed Bank loan would be repayable on a fixed amortization
schedule because the large number of small subloans would make repayment on a
composite amortization basis impracticable. Since the subloans financed under
the project would have shorter maturities than the Bank loan and COFIDE would,
therefore, receive repayments not required to service the Bank or BCR loans,
COFIDE would use such repayments to finance additional SSE projects under the



- 18 -
same terms and conditions as the project (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement). In order to maintain the value in soles of the foreign exchange
resources available from the credit line portion of the Bank loan, throughout
the term of the proposed loan, the BCR would make semi-annual adjustments to
these soles amounts in accordance with movements of the exchange rate during
the previous six month period (Section 3.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The amounts in soles resulting from the adjustment, less commitment fees on
the proposed loan paid by BCR to the Bank, would be made available to COFIDE at
the rate set forth in para. 71.
71.       The BCR would onlend the credit line portion of the proposed loan
(US$25.25 million) to COFIDE in soles at the prevailing Central Bank discount
rate (TRB), currently 42 percent (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
COFIDE, acting as a wholesaler, would onlend these funds, complemented by
US$10 million equivalent of BCR's resources, to the participating financial
intermediaries at rates equivalent to the TRB, plus a spread of 2 percentage
points for loans up to US$10,000 equivalent, 3 points for loans of between
US$10,000 and US$40,000 and 4 points for loans above US$40,000 (Part A.2 of
Schedule 3 to the draft Loan Agreement). COFIDE's differential onlending
rates would allow intermediaries a higher spread on smaller loans with higher
processing cost, while allowing COFIDE a higher spread on larger loans, which
would require additional appraisal work since they would be above COFIDE's
free limits for intermediaries. The nominal average spread is expected to be
about 3 percentage points. The effective average spread, however, would be
about 4.5 percentage points, because interest would be charged monthly.
72.       The participating financial intermediaries would onlend the loan
proceeds, complemented by BCR's and their own resources, to the ultimate benefi-
ciaries at a uniform interest rate not exceeding the equivalent of the prevail-
ing maximum term lending rate (Part B.3 of Schedule 3 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Currently, the rate, authorized by the BCR, is 54 percent per annum nominal
or -- based on quarterly payments -- about 66 percent effective. If interest
were charged monthly, as is to be expected, the nominal rate would be adjusted
downwards so that the effective rate would not exceed 66 percent. With inflation
moderating to some 50 percent in recent months and expected to decelerate further
in 1982, the interest rate charged to the ultimate beneficiaries is highly
positive in real terms.
73.       With a TRB of 42 percent and a spread for COFIDE of 2-4 points,
intermediaries would have a nominal spread of between 8 and 10 points and an
effective spread of between 8.9 and 11.9 points. This would be sufficient to
cover processing costs and provisions for bad debts and provide a strong
incentive to the intermediaries to expand SSE term lending. The interest rate
structure applicable under the project would be reviewed periodically by BCR,
COFIDE and the Bank (at the request of any of these three parties) to ensure its
adequacy (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The adequacy of interest
rates and spreads would be judged on the basis of inflation and conditions on
domestic and international capital markets. If, within 60 days of a request
to meet to review the interest rate structure, there has been no agreement on
interest rates and/or margins to be charged under the project, the Bank would
have the right to deny authorization for further loan withdrawals (Section 2.03(e)
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
74.       As mentioned in para 52, indexation was recently introduced for
term financing on an optional basis but Congressional ratification is necessary.
Indexation would not apply under this project unless the Bank, BCR and COFIDE
agree on the procedures and policies for indexing and the applicable interest
rate (Parts A.3 and B.4 of Schedule 3 to the draft Loan Agreement).
75.       COFIDE would refinance up to 90 percent of all subloans made by financial
intermediaries. In the case of new enterprises involving higher risks, however,
beneficiaries would be required to provide at least 20 percent of the investment
cost (Part A.5 of Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement). In the case of established
firms, the contribution of the ultimate beneficiary would be determined by the
intermediary in accordance with normal banking practice.
76.       Subloan maturities would be determined based on the characteristics
of the investment project. In the case of financing for fixed investment and
related working capital, subloans would be made for two to ten years, including
a grace period of up to three years. In the case of permanent working capital,
subloans would have maturities of from one and a half to five years, including
up to two years of grace (Part B.2 of Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement).
77.       With respect to the technical assistance component, BCR would pass
on the loan's proceeds to COFIDE at the same terms as the proposed loan would
bear (including commitment fee), and COFIDE would assume the foreign exchange risk
for this portion of the loan. Each element of the technical assistance program
would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval (Section 2.03(a)(ii) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursement and Procurement
78.       The terminal date for submission of subprojects to the Bank for
approval would be December 31, 1984, and the closing date would be December 31,
1985. In accordance with standard practice for SSE operations, procurement for
subprojects would follow normal commercial practice. It is expected that most
goods would be purchased locally. Bank disbursement would be based on the assump-
tion that the average SSE investment would have an estimated foreign exchange
component of 50 percent since it would not be practical to determine the foreign
excahnge content of each subproject. Accordingly, for each subproject financed
under the proposed operation, the Bank would reimburse COFIDE for up to 100 percent
of its participation in the financing, provided that the Bank's participation does
not exceed 50 percent of the cost of the machinery, equipment, installation, civil
works, or permanent working capital that make up the investment for the subproject
(Section 2.02 (b) (i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
79.       Bank disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure
and disbursement issued by COFIDE and the BCR, respectively. The detailed
documentation evidencing the final expenditures would be retained by COFIDE
and would be subject to inspection by the Bank in the course of project
supervision (Section 4.03 and of the draft Loan Agreement). Because of the
processing time involved in operating through a two tier system, expenditures
made up to 180 days prior to Bank receipt of the corresponding withdrawal re-
quests would be eligible for Bank reimbursement (Section 2.02(b) (iii) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
80.       Given the small size and large number of subloans expected under
the project, COFIDE would give a free limit to the intermediaries, below



- 20 -
which the only information required would consist of a list of the basic
features of the firm (including its creditworthiness), the financial appraisal
of the investment and the terms and conditions of the subloan to prove eligi-
bility. Upon presentation of such information, COFIDE would finance the
corresponding percentage of the subloan. Free limits for each intermediary
would be established by COFIDE in its intermediation contracts after careful
appraisal of each intermediary, including its SSE lending evaluation capabilities.
Such limits would be expected to range between US$40,000-US$100,000 and criteria
for establishing limits would be spelled out in COFIDE's policies and procedures
to be approved by the Bank (see para 64). On this basis, it is expected that
COFIDE would review about five to ten percent of the subprojects.
81.       Given the small size of the maximum investment to be financed under
the project (up to US$200,000), the Bank would only review subprojects on an
ex-post sample basis during supervision missions. Because of the expected
large number of subloans under the project, an _x-poEst random sample of
subprojects, regardless of size, would be more indicative of the quality of
appraisals being made by each intermediary than the selected sample that would
result from the Bank reviewing ex-ante only the largest projects sent by
GOFIDE to the Bank.
82.       All technical assistance subprojects would be subject to prior approval
by the Bank (Section 2.02(b)(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement). Consultants'
services, estimated to amount to about six man-months, would be contracted in
line with the Bank's guidelines (Section 3.10(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements under the technical assistance component would only cover expendi-
tures incurred in foreign exchange (Section 2.02(b)(v) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Project Benefits and Risks
83.       The project would significantly increase the term financing resources
available to the SSE sector. It would provide financing for an estimated
1,500 subprojects with estimated total investment cost of about US$50 million.
With investment per job expected to range between US$4,000 and US$6,000, the
proposed project would generate about 10,000 new jobs.
84.       The project would enhance SSE financing and, by involving a large
number of financial intermediaries, most of which are private, it would stimu-
late competition and improve service to SSEs. Also, the participation of
regional banks and commercial banks with large branch networks would increase
the availability of term resources outside Lima, thus facilitating the decen-
tralization of economic activity. Finally, the proposed project would further
strengthen COFIDE's role as a wholesaler of term resources and enable it to
reach new financial intermediaries with which it had not previously worked,
such as credit cooperatives.
85.       The project's technical assistance component would strengthen the
institutional development of COFIDE by financing a young executive program
and training staff in project financing. In addition, this component would
help to finance a training program that COFIDE would organize for staff of
financial intermediaries participating in the project to upgrade their term-
lending capabilities and ability to service SSEs, particularly in regard to
providing guidance on the availability of technical assistance resources.



- 21 -
86.       While the project does not involve unusual risks, term lending to
SSEs would be a new activity for many intermediaries, which may delay their
involvement. For this reason, their spreads have been structured to make such
lending attractive. Moreover, the loan officer training program mentioned in
the preceding paragraph would familiarize intermediaries with the opportunities
of SSE lending. Another possible risk is delay to the project because BIP, the
principal SSE lender, is not accustomed to operating under a two tier system.
To reduce this risk the simplified appraisal criteria and processing procedures
for the project have been based, to a large extent, on BIP's own procedures. The
free limit to BIP would also be relatively high (tentatively US$100,000) in recog-
nition of their experience in this field. This should help to minimize problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.       The draft Loan Agreement between BCR, COFIDE and the Bank as well as
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
88.       These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for small-scale
enterprise credit operations, adjusted to take into account the special features
of this project. The main features of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements are
referred to in the text of this report and are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be: (i) approval by
COFIDE's Board of the policies and by COFIDE's Management of the operating
procedures for SSE lending (para 64); and (ii) authorization, by the BCR, that
commercial and regional banks would be able to make loans maturing in more
than one and five years, respectively at the applicable term-lending rate
(para 66).
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                        by Ernest Stern
November 18, 1981
Washington, D. C.






ANNEX I
- 22 -                                            Page 1 of 5
Page 1
TABLE 3A
PERU - r   AL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE.AGES
LANU AREA (THOUSAND Sq. KH.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
TOTAL            1285.2                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      305.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   230.0       410.0      730.0                1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      436.3        691.8      736.9                1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0       13461.0   17149.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3          57.4       66.5                  64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         28.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         7.9         10.5       13.3                  34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. KR. AGRICULTURAL LAND      33.0         44.0      54.6                   94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YKS.                          43.6         44.3      42.8                  40.7                       30.1
15-64 YRS.                          52.0         51.8      53.6                  55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4          3.9        3.6                   4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4          2.8        2.7                   2.4                       1.5
URBAN                               5.1          5.0       4.3                   3.7                        3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.4         41.8       37.8                  31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.7        14.5       11.1                   8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.0        2.6                   2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOKS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0        102.0      86.0                 108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALURIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.0         99.0      97.0                 107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           62.0         61.0      59.0                  65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0         25.0      24.0                  34.0                       39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      28.5         19.6       13.7                   7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.7          53.5      58.0                  64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..        122.0/c    86.0                  70.9                       25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              14.6         35.0      48.3                  65.7
UKBAN                              30.2         58.0      60.0                  79.7
RURAL                               0.8          8.0      25.0                  43.9
ACCESS TU EXCKETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         36.0      34.0                  59.9
URBAN                                ..         52.0      51.0                  75.7
RURAL                                ..         16.0        ..                  30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2011.7       1904.9    1545.1                1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2205.0/d      738.0     745.0                1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             425.1/e      469.6     542.7                 471.2                     262.3
URBAN                                ..        524.8     430.1                 558.0                     191.8
RURAL                                ..       3055.3    5747.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         19.0      23.0                    ..                      18.2
HOUSlNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9          4.8/f
URBAN                               4.8          4.9/f
RURAL                               4.9          4.6/f      .
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.3          1.9/f
URBAN                               2.0          1.7/f      .
RURAL                               2.7          2.47        ..
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF UWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              26.0         32.1/f      ..
URBAN                              50.7         54.3/f      ..
RURAL                               4.2          2.7/f      ..



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                              Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        103.0     112.0                  101.7                     105.9
MALE                  95.0        111.0      116.0                 103.0                     109.6
FEMALE                71.0         96.0      106.0                 101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  15.0         30.0       50.0                  35.3                      66.3
MALE                  18.0         34.0       53.0                  34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                13.0         26.0       46.0                  35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 20.0            17.0       16.0                  30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         35.0      40.0                   29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                           12.0         17.0       29.0                  15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         72.5/f    79.7                   80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0         17.1      18.5                   42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         108.0        135.1     135.4                  215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.2         29.3      50.8                   89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        123.3       51.0                  62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                   3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3193.9       3896.8    5079.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.1         20.7      22.8                   22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               53.0         44.8       37.8                  35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         20.1      20.0                   23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.4         28.9       29.6                  31.8                      42.3
MALE                                  49.6         45.8       45.6                  49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                                13.2         12.0       13.6                  14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.6                   1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39 ./
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4Th         61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5/           1.9/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.0/S          7.-7         .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     235.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     180.0                  187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     293.0                  513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     200.0                  362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      49.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1970-75;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  /a Personal income within labor force.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                                                 Page 3of 5 P
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDIICATORS
9o-.e   Altbough the date  -r  draw   f-n  sore    sely judged  h  m-s   utho-it-i-e end reliable, it shoudae.                           eatdna   hymynth   na-
ntionally. fi  .  c   .marbl   rbecueo   itako  ettdriad   einitions  ad concpts usd by differet cuneeicoerigthedat.Tedteae oe
theim.,  sefu  to  escrbe oders of eagoituda, indicate trend., and                                         -Ototeis   eran   ajr.ifeene  btwenouerie
Camsth snen..  group  ore (l rtheseeooutry group Of tie  eubjent conty sed (2)' a oocnrY Stuup norb .omewhan high.t ereeg   irtom   theteonr ary
of theeuh .so    outrp  (seo.sPt for "Cepitri turylue oil tePorters" grru  where 'ttddls InuaNridro.n   tdl   at   eoaa    ess   fsoae
eucir-Oultural...ffinines j. I   h                        deaeegru  dtath  awaregee er  PoPulation oighoad erirbeenic eeen  for eahfdcto   e   bre   eywe
majority of the orunariesin a group has dens for  ier inoicaror.  Since nbeoreregecf rcurdr leeTu.o.  -he indirerorsydrpaeds o hthe ensllbbiiiryOofddtr
on  bdica'rm  en a tiae osoag the r-utry end  -sferenc   grou..
SAtSS -al   t1       tlaa f_iousiu&eq.he.)Prolt    prueuts!l rd-tt                                                                               re,aditl-Ppbar   eei
foa.-Snl  ufosaeacmriigladarsed                           yln     ratr.ohe n  rurl inis  bythier r_aeoivoehsf herPitel beds
fo  p,Pesturee, market end btnhe   gade r nr lie  fai1or; 1978 data.                          ahbllitution   _etere -Ors.pinseseerbikae    haseestlyasfn
09(PR UAIT iS$)   GNlP peso .pita estintee en  -ar-t. markan yTi-e, osJ-                        dIl  ae  r  rtinlde.    ualbeptla   owvr, tanlyd health
cuama by" sesonvret           m o  usIldS                  1 Alsf977-79 beebe)  1960.              an  md rl  eree  otp Rmret..              na  e  byh atl.   physriete 4 (hoeby
197,ied199doa                                                                                         md.trc  Psirane, ras.  edldwf, etc.) whioh Offer Je-pstl_t _00_
--ra.1   y ~   ~      ~     ~    at-n  rd  roide aliteited rugs o.f eedtasl ftli             Oe.      r steet
ed  lgie ptnee  ntrlgs  n   yro,roerde atera                                        c                 and Irure  is,:pital  local.. IOr -nra  hoepitla end msdtosl  ed m_t_riey
oriolcyf ir holocrame of coal eqoivaleno  per cepars; 1901, 1971, and 2079   ocececs.  Speoieliaed  boepindels eoe. bhacluded or.   eld ly uy der tatat.
fro   ,oPir     d   aidd by tbs nuebse of beds.
'PUPSOATION AND VITAL, STATISTICS                                                                        1                   i       d         " a   ft   rd--.
t. LPs  atioo,c4-Ta              ...ousds) -As of July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1979                 HOSISIP
dae rbreSiso   Itueed  peos re   oehld) -ttl  ort  e  roasi-
Urhee Population (osroenno  total) - Ratio o~f urban to total popularcor;                A  oshol!d arNeisn    fagopo hdrdae.trsar   ii qetr
smog cuetias  190, 1970. soa97lat,lb oueodoreaisialprpss
Pornlatien Profeotione                                                                     Averee nuherI                                               t ae   arro       oal   re,sdrurl-harg  e
orcol .e..     to.   y  g   o   m  rdtermrlt   n   eriiyote dteliee,  esp196sl.    Helleg                                                     elode   Ore-pmomeeet steradd sad
Prjcio 0nen t  -fCrr mralityP Pretie  opreslt of... the  ..r.i  ass9e-                 unoccupied  parts.- "r.
msters frr fertiltyr  fret  artlso   tor  chte  evee tasumin  do..t  in                           ofltenet, urba.  edeasly  Dwellings-Id osepettivaly
fernlity  accrdngpodncoeperrtsd  estfalytlerin   prfrnsre
P." rtr   te y the  asigd one of thes  nin t     o           ..aton  of. Iaelty        RCAG..tIO9      .ti.1tt(mrttt1f  "l
end.J feret  fy cend   fo  prjeocoorurose.                                                     Ajused   rolmat Rtio
min  forosf-t.Tisiy t is rohi        .. nyetr  atle    ae dtorler toOriar   sorhool-dg pru- tb1 d                                        e11rrslty   bertuda  chlrnagd61
f.therilayameo-r Iae  of uit- net teprdnoplo  rece, when   a    AeesiryasStadutdfrft eetOfth    tpteyadoen;ta
eatae    e the hesir of th   projoe     -hretabetinso  tf pe-laioyn                  DUCTIcO       esppN        r  blwo   hn   h  efca   colae
tie_n level            _TP.                                                                       ..tduosio   reoRastilmtfa    aa   tapee   rmaybsroim
Tsar  tebonryt  i role 1r is tboc bd   tha year whed s..tatonr  p roatoroie  gesr%t2al. veoctoma   erteachr.. training                                              1 imnu dim   tar  epi
sbahoebe   eoa.                                                                                      eal   f1  to 17 years of.r I.  t.th  Pragr; err -podeo             Ofse   at. gearal
Posulatios Os-tmsbtr                                                                            rerlPloded.                          -     llyi- do                        -1
Pe a.he  -OIdparpouato   pn  qar   ilmea   (0  becters.)ho                                   'ftotti.a  *Irdllmse   (ea1es_tof eyredned - Ooatare _ete tme
-to -taler;  96,  97  and. 19h9 dan.Jt    h-nolude P.eobebo-et. -edettrl  orehrpefr abboert   ae d
Pe a.the, yeri2OuOureld thod-  C-Ompulteda  aOfs forariutua   an                                      ntye sP.deprtment  Of semeder  inth fitute.i1a                l
only;  900. 1P5 endgIt ras.                                                         Pop.l-tesbst man - prmeer. ad ertidlrty               Tone-snadens emrrlsdot
Peu -trtn. Liutr   raonl-Chlet(-1    et)  rrco-ge(5                                                   arp    h:'i a    tt esreder   les 4 divide   by Ctsb td of teberm n  h
66 years), end rtired  (60 yearsand erer)tas.pecentagesfofrmidyear pfpp-r_odrepredyna lava_s
lTion   1965,u 197.  ed1979i   -.hd-T.Y    -.    .i-t   .lt. dateid. d                                           gn.e ln 1eo   sesfe et_l, Or titaat  Sats.i (al.t   e    a  wie
Peer-i. p Dplnirn.                                                                                       ...orlyOf51-6t0171960-7f0,.;and  19f0-79.i
Pearlsni  krahRt  eronl-ubn-  nrlget  rtso   ra - drpu-                                         Cd. StWTIO
true  tr1  Rte faeXi     uad -YrP.1tO Latra  lire hilre.. per t10hos tnd of nVdper.ar  setingas    less -the   Igtprmaaidsamleo,hasss
poprltbue;1960,1970, end 1979 dte.                                                            military-d rabble..                                         ,..
Poaanrca. leon, 19riIt, end 157  da.td                                                              hedosts to genersi.4potli .r  thrs_do P.p.edm    eatede  e-d
Orase Sateductis Rate   8 Aserag   theo  dohtre a womenn   h-n  ind                           licnse  Oreosvapsit-eutria  sdf           b  yar  "h        h -eieraio-rP    rd
1titprts;ue olyfieyer0vrae  edigin97i017,  e  1979.9                                               meet... porenie  ahLibdlnang
Pamily Plomins - Sars fruecet of marIadwme       ernaso   ard                              in9oene ta re  be years weet rPgPalrtiom  of TV eats. we  i  mtt
w,emaro   bl-ero    s  (15-bc pars)Et'l         w o! tso hrnhrrtrcl' devite "dr                    SeearoCrroctefn   huadsslt.                                 hw   h       rgr
alP     areOPe  i   aeaegop.nltn   O"elygnrlitrsteppr,dfne   saproia
tfe_clesrys  bai.Cendte  cvrpimr   ods(..enaor                                             edmhlenis
ean.Iitea  1vrg   odnspro    egt;16-6,17,ad17  dc.Tnl0hePoc    tesna    Reesomloaly etnis    Ofera  terl rdieg
qmttsusd it fedpeesn,sdles   ndsrbto.Saur-                                           ho01n9.aig&       ao   oc    be temieg, gerastry                    tie   sad&L
tiip end.. _asth  rtedeidg erifeh.noeapl t....p-tca,  edy  .weighs  fage                         Indutry     i f Waoett- dteho  ferc  isE  atng  cesfeie lmafw             te
Yiosehrlilovel;0981-70 1970,  nd 1977  ins.                                            190 sad 179 date
Pe  s ita suei of cetnei feem  ese           0 d  Ac1vbOf -rre    easeo    Percpte           Prtren    Ratsacf,_reent       l -  eal   ae,ed e                  b- Partimiptiee
neb1thsupply of tro    par da. Pen spply. Of  fend.. is df.ierd al s ehrve t. R-atvt   es   r  omts                                      tl   ae  adfestkrfsae
qPI.eesfo l  onuetei Of oswsLisd  by                                                             ...roidefo  mrtn  p bnlt ef , total, mae  a  felspateeat  ofeIagesaeeiay
allowerce of 60 pens of total protect par day  Pa-d 2 tgram  ef selmi  ad           1960  17.  d be?  dais.  Thmee ar   aden1.' priRst    ae
ptlef poheid,b-of whic  (105rs  hud a44ie   roec   Chaseh  i   ---  di. sga-rfloigne-e   euener b  papten ,ae  leme: Tie  tr.                                                      A
erde anr.dlnrta   thre  o75gesftndp tited0grrees  ftfewesniOfseTss frm  anial m.rose
I.A erfld. Podttrp   16-6.575sd  07  ae                                                             to  the total  abor fdrod
Per naeits  rrtsin sann from anilTadeos  -  eesi  sp.r.Ply         t. f.ord de-Y   f  tP.r.a    "t    rt
Child-tae16   MraiyRas1nrthued   Le'lldenb  pr  hoan itPrca tneo    rivcrId                                                   oe-     ht inC ces_  sod kind; -   niedbyrchs
tries daatderive   trothlfePtable; 1960.1970 sad1979-daa,                                         of houeholde
Pan   .i..Ppy.                   . birth;.;1960, 197097andO1979 date,                               and should b    ten -rrerd wt   reieel  oabn
Isfen Ocnaltn Sne (er houf rd)- altne   en o           f tefeonst,     unPdefr .a.eer         OsL.ae   bouePvrytceLvl(5   a   nis       te   n   ua 
Aucssno  qa.ai-fete -foec  orf crlnc-toa,mbradru l- i-turitifmelly a.deq.ata  ditpnesnta  e                                                                  P-for    seqa lrdee   eat
bar of peaple  (tonal, P nei:e edlrural): with brasoabl  soosato saf
watr adppy. (i-ciud1s tratdsotscwaerr                  ueeeted y but u .pi,.ti bdtetnd             aftdetdhart
- dcti.., Jp.tanittodIS.ativ  P Ofrt allcre ftave                                 i    in8 eara iftas  orhersad rual.
wateretcbasd thens. mo  prtectedMa b      -rpples,epig,ea  a tar  tels)so.nra  areblative                                 ,  97 povrt   io i97eeli9 rethr odste         e  npn
perntantge  of th it  .O rapoirsrm. poplatons .. Ce      11 an creareaa pbli                       personalirnome r  the o           f....  ..be   leve   is drive   from rh  fel
foutan e  sssdre  lcond  on   ar  thn  00   unrste ab.  bouRnap  elvlwtha)sme  trhro   ue   flnn.i   ee    ra
cotsisrmda   ein  wIth ic G resnblerouse  of.iISi. then b     fus . In rura  era            ceiae   oulnr   er   hslr   o                  e  feoretavli          st)-u e
Urmaro  polefcnl  urhoe.tian       9   drural)   1 aerra  by . eets diepesel as?ldP-979t.-.IbI  .    L   d.S    ..                                             11 
peooearagse of riair1aspeo Pi      r po daybue - Ptotene disposali m,ay leclpodett.  j.,  a ..t  %
lerbeeelltioma.r  1         r.        bihdb          D       i.frI -P   .   a.O   .. al    dfalp.-i SIn  0911                                                         mrpat ly
y60ltit  rPhsiia   -f Ptpt-Iarin   ividerdaby numbe  of pstunbO e p-hys90i-7,.d  99d.    h,,_    -d        M ..ti1ai                                                       t
inan  qPl tad frmaldal colanuivriylvl
r:ueco  ear     O rncsna Preo    S- Pou .eIdon divt le   b  nubrt.. orpaTh..Icing                                                 f  b   --1t-   -           -      Mt d
sal  ad tfed    graduate  trr 5e practca  moos., end.i asisan 2   ,Tunas.._                                          -    ti-






- 25 -
PE,RUL                                                                                                         ANNEXI
Page 4 oF 5
ECONOMIC PFVFLOP9ETT PATA
AC. T UI A L                                                     CECTIMTE         PROJECTER                 GROWTH RT   5po)12
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                           1965             1970          1975           1976                  1977   1               979p           198np         1TNE              198             1965-OR       1976-nf      ;9R8-85            7. of
(milli-os of 115 dollarm aR 1977 prices)                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CDP
Cross Domestic Product                                     8902.5          10693.6       13376.8        13647.1       13639.6        13570.8        14079.0        14516.4         15169.6          18792.5             3.9            1.6         5.3              100.0
GCins from Teems of Trade                                  -610.0            130.0        -246.0         -179.4            0.0        -235.9          679.9           872.1          317.0            558.2             -. n.0                     e.a                O
Cross Do-estir Income (GrT)                                8291.6          10823.6       13129.9        13467.7       13639.6        13334.0        14758.9        15388.5         15486.6          19350.7             4.4           3.4          4.7              100.0
imports                                                    1840.2          2190.1         2985.4         2697.7        270,.8         I8R8.7        2086.8          3004.6          3455.3           3724.7              3.5          2.7          4.4               19.8
Emports                                                    2314.3           2616.8        1906.9         1988.8        2129.5         2431.2         2730.1         2578.0          2632.6           2979.6            -1.7           7.8          2.9               15.6
Esports, Terms of Trade Adjosted                           1703.4           2746.8        1660.0         1729.4        2129.5         2195.3         3410.0         3450.6          2949.6           3537.8             0.1          18.9          0.5               15.6
Resource Gap, Ter-o of Trade Adjusted 7-: sorpols)          136.8           -556.7        1325.4          968.3          577.3        -306.6       -1323.2          -446.0           505.7            186.9             -.a           0.a          n.a                4.2
Total Coo51 eptioo                                         6461.3          8669.0        11313.3        11694.8       12172.2        11272.3       11633.5         12543.7         13077.6          15787.9              5.4          1.8          4.7               89.2
Immast-sot                                                 1907.1           1597.9        3142.0         2741.2        2044.7         1756.0         1802.2         2398.8          2914.7           3749.7             3.1          -3.3          9.3               15.0
Poerstic Namlmos                                           1830.3           2154.6        1826.6         1772.9        1467.4         2060.6         1125.4         2844.2          7409.0           3562.8            -0.3          12.5          4.6               10.8
p1 pceliinary
PRICES IN U1S DOLLARS (1977 = 100)
Export Pri-e IEdax                                           32.9             06.5          87.4           90.6          100.0          97.7          148.6          175.4           164.3            243.4
-mport Pria Inde-                                            44.7             44.3         100.4           95.7          ino.0         108.I 1        11.0           131.0           146.7            205.1
Terms of Trade Index                                         73.6            105.0          87.1           94.7          100.0          90.4          124.9          133.9           112.0            118.7
Annoal Average E-chaoRe Rate (Soles per 0)                   26.8             38.7          40.8           57.4           83.8         156.3          224.6          288.7           416.0               s.s
SIP BY SECTOR                                                      LABOR FORCE                                                    LABOR PRODUCTIVITY
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE ANT PRODUCTIVITY                               is Mil. mf 115            P-r-est of             Gro-th                                       Peroent mf         Grapth                                       Percest of             Growth
IN 1973 PRICES                                                        Doslars                    Totai               Rate              In Thousands                Natal             faRt             I. US DRllars                Average              Rlat
1970         1980         1970        1980          70-80           1970        19RO          1970      1980        70-80           1978         1980         1970        1988           70-80
Agrictultours                                                  1534.2        1457.8         17.3        11.8         -0.5           2011.9      2248.0          49.0      40.n        1.1            762.6       648.5          36.1        29.4         -1.6
Tedustry                                                       3226.3        4712.4         36.5        38.1          3.9            769.1      1037.2          18.4     1N.5         3.0           4194.9      4543.4         198.6       206.2          8.8
Seroicem                                                       4r84.8        6198.1         46.2        50.1          4.3           1407.6      2328.3          33.6      41.         5.2           2902.0      2662.1         137.4      120.8          -0.9
Total/Average                                                  8845.3       12368.3        108.0       100.0          3.4           4188.6      5613.3         108.8    100.0         3.0           2111.8      2203.3         100.0       100.0          0.4
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT PINANCE                                                                                                                                                   ESTIMATED       PROJECTED
(am percest of Curret GDP)                                       1965            1970           1975         1976          1977         1978            1979       19R8        1981            1982
Co-ent Revenoe                                                   13.2            14.6           14.0          13.4         13.5         14.3           16.0       1iS            16.6          17.2
Corrent Ependiture                                               12.4            12.1           14.4          14.8         16.9         15.8          12.2         16.2          16.5          15.7
C'rre  SaviEs                                                     0.8             2.5           -0.4          -1.4         -3.4         -1.5            3.2         2.2           0.1            8.3
Capital Espondituncs                                              3.9             3.7            4.5           4.5          3.5          3.1            3.7         4.7           4.6           4.1
Extermol Assistaoce (Net)                                          1.0            0.5            2.3            1.8         3.0          0.4           -0.7         0.3           0.3            0
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                  A C T U A L
(as precent of Tot1l Custrrt Expenditsre)                        1968            1973           1876         1977          1978                         DRTALC OR                                          1981/85 DRe-Ope.m.t PI.e
PUBLIC SECTOR                                       RI 8            1 Tatal
Edocation                                                         30.6           27.9           22.9          18.1         16.1                          INVEESTIENT PROGRAM                                 milli..
HealIh                                                             9.0            6.3            6.2           4.7          6.0                                                                            1981 Prices
Agricul-tre                                                        3.6            4.4            1.8            1.3         3.4
Other Econmci SEeroices                                            3.2            4.0            5.2            3.2         2.7                          Agric-ltsre, Fishiog                                1557.2            14.1
G-roral Semices (i-cloding defeRse)                               46.4           42.7           46.9          54.1         45.2                          lndussry, T-meise and NiRing                         924.1              8.3
Interest on DObt                                                   5.4           11.3           10.8          15.1         24.1                          Ene-gy                                              2688.1            24.2
Other                                                              1.8            3.3            6.2            3.5         2.5                          Tra-sport amd Cmomeiatiom                           2547.2            23.0
Social aRd Loes1 Interest Projects                  3367.6            30.4
Total COrrent Lxpe-ditlrem                                    100.0           100.0          100.0         108.0        108.0
T O T A L                                     11084.2           100.0
MONEY AN4   CREDIT                                                 1973         1974          1975         1975          1976         1976        192707        1900          1978         1978          1979         1979          1980
(RLllioss  of Soles oosmandim_
at Rhe end of poriod)
N-ony and Qsasi-MOooy                                              98.3        120.0        141.8         142.4         166.3        166.8       216.2         220.5        344.1         361.1        686.4         725.9         1305.1
Baok Credit to PublIc Sector                                       20.2         26.9         49.7          60.3        181.4         115.3       149.3         198.9        262.2         383.0        204.1         237.0          371.5
Bank Credit to Prioate  "cctor                                     73.2         84.5        108.0         809.8        134.5         136.0       160.8         173.8        233.0         243.2        382.9         442.3          881.8
Underlying Bochooge Rate 0g/. per TSI)                             39.7         38.7         38.0          65.0         65.0          85.0        85.0         160.0        10.0          225.0        225.00         9.            398.0
...  .  ...Parceot of CDP                                          25.0         74.3          22.6         22.7          20.0         20.1        18.9          19.3          18.7         19.6          19.9         21.1           23.5
Cosnseec Price lodem SR Soles (1977=100)                        37.5          43.9         54.3                       02.4                     100.0                      157.8                      264.7                       421.4
A...al PerceIr.or Chengs Ro:
Conso=er Price loden im Soles                                     9.3         16.9         23.7                        33.5                     38.0                       57.8                       67.7                         59.2
Bank C-rdit to Public Sactoe                                     53.7         -1.2         84.8                       6R.2                      29.5                       31.8                      -32.8                         56.8
Back Credit to Primate Sector                                    20.7         15.5         28.1                       22.4                      23.4                       34.1                       57.4                         81.2
LCID
Octohe- 1981






is, ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .g .m                                                                      . .& .'9   .=  . .'  . .1           {   
ro  B   w  ,6  7   4  Q             X                        e       X              <      U    n              n i >                        e~~~~C~ 
<~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r       
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r                                                                               v        zv G_
u  F: < > e> ^4 j A < b 1w 
T I                   ,   ,2. . . _ = = _   O .   -   -< _ > O w <     p ,o " - _          
3^ 171; SS                        -     -3-                    ~     =      r           f-         -  






- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at September 30, 1981)
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                           (less cancellations)
Number   Year           Borrower             Purpose            Bank     Undisbursed
27 loans fully disbursed                                         409.2
949      1973       Republic of Peru        Education             24.0         2.7
1196     1976      Republic of Peru         Transport            76.5         39.0
1215     1976      Republic of Peru         Power                35.6          7.4
1281     1976      CENTROMIN                Mining               39.7         13.5
1283     1976      Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.           21.6         11.2
1358     1977      COFIDE                   Industry             35.0          8.6
1403     1977      Republic of Peru         Agriculture          25.0         22.3
S-11     1978       Republic of Peru        Preinvestment          8.8         3.1
1771     1980      Republic of Peru         Irrigation           56.0         54.0
1806     1980      Petroleos del Peru       Petroleum Prod.      32.5         30.5
1812     1980      Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.           15.0         14.6
1888     1980      Republic of Peru         Preinvestment          7.5         6.0
S-19     1980       SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.        5.0         5.0
1963     1981      CORPAC                   Aviation             58.0         58.0
1968     1981      COFIDE                   Industry             60.0         60.0
2018     1981      ELECTROPERU              Power                25.0         25.0
Total                                                     934.4
of which has been repaid                               174.5
Total now outstanding                                     759.9
Amount sold                           18.3
of which has been repaid           18.3                  -
Total now held by Bank                                    759.9
Total undisbursed                                                      360.9



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30, 1981)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                       Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.          Home Appliances  0.3          -     0.3
1960       Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.        Bricks            0.3        -      0.3
1960       Durisol del Peru, S.A.              Building
Materials         0.3        -      0.3
1960;1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers            4.1        -     4.1
1962;1968  Cemento Andino. S.A.                Cement             2.3     0.2      2.5
1964;1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo           Cement             1.4     0.2      1.6
1975       Southern Peru Copper Corp.          Mining            15.0        -    15.0
1978       Cia. de Minas Buenaventura          Mining             2.0     0.5      2.5
1980       Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining             2.7      0.5      3.2
1981       Consorcio Energetico de             Power Trans-
Huancavelica                     mission           8.5        -      8.5
Total gross commitments                               36.9      1.4    38.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             18.2      0.2    18.4
Total net commitments less
participants' portion                               4.0        -      4.0
Total held by IFC                                     14.7      1.2    15.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                               9.2        -      9.2



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan 949-PE: Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about
40 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress owing to delays ii -stablishing and staffing the
project unit, weaknesses in the unit itself and a long delay in adopting the
educational reform uihich was to determine curricula. This last difficulty was
resolved with the reform's implementation in 1977, but project execution was
still hampered by weaknesses in the project unit and cumbersome bureau-
cratic procedures. In order to resolve these problems, the project has been
modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank disbursement percentage,
create a revolving fund and improve administrative procedures (see President's
memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result, the pace of project
execution has improved substantially over the past year, and disbursements now
stand at about US$21.3 million. The project should be completed by end-CY1981.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost completed,
although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties. There were
serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component because
of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds
for the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of
those road sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time
(see President's memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties in the mid and late seventies, as well as procurement problems,
have delayed the project's power distribution component and completion is
expected about a year behind schedule. Serious delays were also experienced in
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-30-                              ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
getting the technical assistance program of the loan underway; however,
all consultants have now been retained, and with strong support from the
current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the program is now well
advanced. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been extended to
end-1981.
Loan 1281-PE: CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component, which the IDB is co-
financing with the Bank and which amounts to about 90 percent of total project
costs, was delayed by about two years because of the lack of local counterpart
funds owing to the recession of the late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding
with the project with support from additional Government counterpart funds,
as well as a supplementary IDB loan and commercial bank borrowing to cover
inflationary cost increases. Engineering, procurement and mine development
activities on this part of the project are well-advanced. The mine-water
treatment plant has now been completed.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the
project by about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and
disbursements stand at US$10.4 million. Because of past delays, however, the
Closing Date has been extended to end-1982.
Loan 1358-PE:  Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of
this, the Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions,
which would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing.
With this action and improving economic conditions over the past two years,
demand for the credit line has increased, and it is now almost fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay
in completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation
systems are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened
over the past few years, the design phase is now complete and construction
has started. The project, however, is now several years behind schedule.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                         Page 5 of 6
Loan S-11:      Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility
study for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water
system. The Mantaro study has been completed, and engineering for the Lima
water system is now underway in preparation for a project to be considered
for Bank financing.
Loan 1771-PE: Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million
Loan of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project execution has now gotten underway and is gaining momentum.
The implementation of most of the Bank-financed components of the project
has begun or is in the process of being started.
Loan 1806-PE: Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of
April 28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the
weak implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however,
have now begun and execution should improve in the coming months.
Loan 1812-PE: Puno Rural Development; US$15 million loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities have now got underway. Consultants for the extension program have
been hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:  Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project, US$7.5
million loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Consultants have been contracted and the final feasibility
report for the phosphate fertilizer project is due by end-1981.
Loan S-19:      SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project, US$5.0 million loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans is now
being reviewed.
Loan 1963-PE: Aviation Development Project, US$58.0 million loan of August 19,
1981; Effectiveness Date:                            ; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The conditions of effectiveness are now in the process of being
satisfied. Procurement activities for equipment have begun.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1968-PE:  Second Industrial Credit Project, US$60.0 million loan of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The conditions of effectiveness are now in the process of being
satisfied.
Loan 2018-PE: Power Engineering Project; US$25 million loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date:                           ; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The conditions of effectiveness are now in the process of being satis-
fied. Final design of the Yuncan hydroelectric project, which is being financed
retroactively by this loan, is now underway.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PERU
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                    5 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                    COFIDE with Bank assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:         August 1980
(d)  Identification of project:              December 1980
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:         May 1981
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:          March 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) As a condition of loan effectiveness, COFIDE's Board of
Directors would approve policies, and COFIDE's Management
procedures for SSE lending satisfactory to the Bank (para 64);
(b) as a condition of loan effectiveness, the BCR would authorize
commercial banks and regional banks to make loans maturing in
more than one and five years, respectively (para 66);
(c) by June 30, 1982, COFIDE would initiate a training program,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the loan officers of participating
financial intermediaries (para 67);
(d) enterprises with annual sales of up to US$750,000 equivalent
and fixed assets, excluding land, of up to US$300,000 equivalent,
not owned or controlled by other enterprises and operating in
any productive, distributive or service activity except agricul-
ture and livestock, would be eligible for financing for projects
whose cost does not exceed US$200,000 (para 69);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) the BCR would make semiannual adjustments to the amount of soles
available to COFIDE for relending so that they are equivalent to
the foreign exchange made available out of the credit line portion
of the Bank loan, in accordance with movements in the exchange rate
during the previous six-month period; the commitment fee payable by
COFIDE would be charged against these semiannual adjustments (para 70);
(f) COFIDE would use subloan repayments not required to service the
Bank loan to finance other SSE projects under the same terms and
conditions as provided for in the project (para 79);
(g) the BCR would onlend the credit line portion of the loan proceeds
and counterpart funds to COFIDE at the prevailing TRB, and COFIDE
would onlend these to financial intermediaries at rates equivalent
to the TRB plus 2 points for loans up to US$10,000, 3 points for
loans of between US$10,000 and US$40,000 and 4 points for loans
above US$40,000; intermediaries would lend at an interest rate not
exceeding the equivalent of the maximum prevailing term lending
rate (paras 71-72); indexation would not apply under the project
unless the Bank, BCR and COFIDE would agree on the procedures and
interest charges (para 74);
(h) interest rates and margins would be reviewed periodically to ensure
that they are adequate; the Bank could suspend disbursements if,
within 60 days of request to meet to review the interest rate
structure there has been no agreement on interest rates and/or
margins to be charged (para 73);
(i) COFIDE would refinance up to 90 percent of all subloans except
that in the case of new enterprises the beneficiary would be
required to provide at least 20 percent of the investment cost
(para 75);
(j) subloans for fixed investment and related working capital would have
maturities from two to ten years, including a grace period of up to
three years, subloans for permanent working capital would have
maturities from one and a half to five years, including up to two
years of grace (para 76);
(k) the proceeds of the technical assistance component of the loan would
be onlent by BCR to COFIDE on the same terms as the proposed loan;
the various technical assistance programs would be submitted to the
Bank for approval (para 82).



