늬


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2064 PE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   6               9 19&19
between REPUBLIC OF PERU (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco Central de Reserva del Peru' (hereina'fter
,called the Borrower) and Corporac16n Financiera de Desarrollo,
S.A. - COFIDE (hereinafter called COFIDE) the Bank has agreed to
make to the Borrower a,loan in various currencies equival,o,nt
to twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000), on the terms, and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantp.,e the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of t ' he Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable. to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applic-
able to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement,. unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor


﻿-2-
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2 2. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to COFIDE will be inadequate
to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out
of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide COFIDE or cause COFIDE to be provided through
the Borrower, with such funds as are needed to meet such expendi-
tures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assiets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of. such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-3-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of
its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by COFIDE of its obligations contained in the Loan
Agreement and will take or cause to 'e taken all reasonable action
necessary or appropriate to enable COFIDE to perform such obliga-
tions.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Economia, Finanzas y Comercio
of the Guarantor and the Director General de Cr&dito PG'blico
of the Ministerio de Economia, Finanzas y Comercio of the
Guarantor are severally designated as representatives of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economia, Finanzas
y Comercio
Avenida Abancay 5a Cuadra
Lima
Peru


﻿-4-
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINDEF                              20187 PU-MINDEF
Lima, Peru
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNSS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement tt be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this -W   L   day of       , 198 &2,.
FORSECRETARY


