Document of                     FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2692-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
January 24, 1980
|  This document bas a restricted disributon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborIztion. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 22, 1980)
US$1.00      =  Rs 7.95878
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.12565
Rs 1,000,000 = US$125,650
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against a
"basket" of currencies. As these currencies are now floating, the
US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.60, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ANM     -    Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
AP      -    The State of Andhra Pradesh
CHW     -    Community Health Worker
GOI     -    Government of India
IEC     -    Information, Education and Communication
IUD     -    Intra-Uterine Device
LHV     -    Lady Health Visitor
MCH     -    Maternal and Child Health
NPW     -    Multipurpose Workers
PHC     -    Primary Health Center
SIDA    -    Swedish International Development Authority
UP      -    The State of Uttar Pradesh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Crude Birth Rate:        Number of live births per year per 1,000 population.
Crude Death Rate:        Number of deaths per year per 1,000 population.
Rate of Population       Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net) migration
Growth:                 expressed as a percentage of the total population in
a given year.
Total Fertility Rate:   The average number of children that would be born per
woman if she were to live to the end of her childbear-
ing years, and bear children according to a given set
of age-specific fertility rates. The Total Fertility
Rate often serves as an estimate of the average
number of children per family.
Infant Mortality Rate:  Annual number of deaths of infants under one year per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Equivalent Steril-       An index of overall family planning performance
izations:              calculated by adding the number of sterilizations
performed over a period of time, one-third the number
of IUDs inserted, one-eighteenth the number of equiv-
alent conventional contraceptive users, and one-ninth
the number of equivalent oral contraceptive users.
These weights are derived from an assessment of
number of births averted by different contraceptive
methods in India.
This document has a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:           The States of Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh.
Amount:                  US$46 million.
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending                As part of Central assistance by the Government of
Terms:                 India (GOI) to the States for development projects
on terms and conditions applicable at the time. At
present, Central assistance for health and family
welfare activities is provided on a grant basis.
GOI will bear the exchange risk.
Project                  The project would spearhead implementation of an
Description:           integrated family welfare strategy model which the
Government plans to carry out throughout India by
1988. The project would have the following major
components: (a) service delivery; (b) training;
(c) information, education and communications activ-
ities; (d) monitoring, evaluation and operational
research; and (e) program and project management.
It would also provide support for a number of inno-
vative activities. The proposed project would cover
six districts of Uttar Pradesh and three districts
of Andhra Pradesh. The project would have as its
major objectives the lowering of infant and child
mortality and morbidity, improvement in the health
status of mothers and children, and the lowering of
the birth rate.
The risks under the proposed project are those
associated with programs involving thousands of staff
in attempts to change the attitudes of millions of
people. Organizational arrangements have been
designed to minimize the risks to an acceptable
level.



Estimated Costs:                                      Local  Foreign  Total
---(US$ Millions)----
Service Delivery            49.90   10.50   60.40
Training                     4.40    0.70    5.10
Information, Education
& Communication            5.10    0.90    6.00
Research and Evaluation    0.75    0.05    0.80
Project Management           1.10    0.10    1.20
Innovative Activities        1.20    0.30    1.50
Total Base Cost           62.45   12.55   75.00
Physical Contingencies       1.40    0.60    2.00
Price Contingencies         15.00    4.00   19.00
TOTAL                     78.85   17.15   96.00
Total net of taxes
and duties                74.85   17.15   92.00
Financing Plan:                                       Local  Foreign  Total
---(US$ Millions)----
IDA                         28.85   17.15   46.00
GOI  /a                     50.00      -     50.00
/a  This includes a possible co-financing by the
Kingdom of Sweden of US$23 million equivalent.
The amount includes taxes and duties of
US$4 million equivalent.
Estimated                                             (US$ Million)
Disbursement:                         FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84  FY85
Annual        0.4    5.4    10.7   15.1   10.7   3.7
Cumulative   0.4    5.8    16.5   31.6   42.3  46.0
Rate of Return:          Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:         No. 2668-IN dated January 15, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
INDIA FOR THE SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$46 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a project designed to spearhead implement-
ation of an integrated family welfare program. The Government of India (GOI)
would channel the proceeds of the credit to the States of Uttar Pradesh and
Andhra Pradesh in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for
financing state development projects. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
and rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never



financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, upward
adjustment of depressed agriculture prices and world inflation have lead to
significant increases in prices during the first half of 1979. The wholesale
price index increased by 16% between mid February and September. Together,
food, food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils contributed over two-
thirds of this increase. However, prices of almost all commodities have
moved up significantly during the first months of 1979/80. Although in part
reflecting a seasonal rise in food and food products, the trends observed do
indicate a distinct departure from the relative price stability of the past
four years. The inflationary trend is likely to continue during the second
half of 1979/80, although at a slower rate, given the recent price increases
in oil, steel and coal and continuing world inflation. Although the current
inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-term growth prospects,



given available aggregate resources and production capacity, significant
improvements are likely to be required in the organization of key sectors
if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 13-15 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the rabi
crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall in grain
crop is expected to be 17-20 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth



- 4 -
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part of
the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Although part of the increase is due to the dollar depreciation
and recovery in coffee prices, the prospects of sustaining a volume growth
of at least 7% during 1979/80 appear good. Imports in the first quarter of
1979/80 are around 7% higher than the same period of the previous year. How-
ever, the impact of recent increases in petroleum prices are only partially
reflected in this figure. India's total POL import bill for 1979/80 is
likely to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million higher than earlier estimates.
As a result, there should be a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth of
reserves sufficient to significantly reduce the number of months of imports
covered by reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of the recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange position, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to deal with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given



to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and others--have concentrated recently on supporting prices to maintain
incentives to farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India. Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed signals to private manufacturers and investors. Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.
Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capital investment or favorable adjustments in the
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long



-6-
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and
power -- cannot be eased through imports. The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agricultural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts. Another source
of demand is public expenditure on development projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods. There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to
sustain the target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in
volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,



-7-
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net reproduction rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the year 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,445 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,025 million had been



- 8 -
repaid, and US$3,252 million was still undisbursed as of November 30, 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of November 30, 1979,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 17 commitments in India totalling US$64.0
million, of which US$17 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$32.5 million, US$24.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of November 30, 1979, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.



- 9 -
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
November 30, 1979, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totaled
US$1,537 million, of which US$622 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$915 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR IN INDIA
Population and Health Situation
26.       With 652 million in mid-1979, the size of India's population is
surpassed only by the People's Republic of China. Fertility is moderate by
standards of low-income developing countries as a whole; the average crude
birth rate for this group was 40 per thousand in 1977 1/ while for India it
was 35 per thousand. The crude death rate in India in the same year was 14
per thousand, slightly less than the average of 15 for all low-income devel-
oping countries. Fertility trends have also been quite encouraging; the
crude birth rate per thousand population declined from 41.1 in 1961 to 36.9
in 1971 to 34.4 in 1976. Fertility is lower in urban areas but the rate of
urbanization is slow; about 21% of the population lived in the cities in mid-
1978 as compared to 17% in 1951. India's current rate of population growth
is estimated at 2.1 percent in 1979, and is expected to decline to 1.5 by
about the year 2000. However, in absolute terms, this does not represent
much of a reduction in the population growth. Even with a fairly optimistic
fertility decline, India will have to live with a monthly population growth of
over one million persons during the next 30 years. This will be larger than
the annual population growth in any other country in the world, including
that in China.
1/   See World Development Report, 1979, P. 160.



- 10 -
27.       There is a long-run downward trend in the mortality rate although
the rate of decline has been slower in recent years. Official statistics
show a crude death rate of 19 per thousand in 1961, 15 in 1971 and 14 in 1977.
Earlier declines were mainly due to the control of communicable diseases,
but further gains depend upon various forms of socio-economic developments
like improved nutrition, sanitation and housing. Since these improvements
are occurring slowly, the present decline in mortality is not surprising.
It is estimated that about 30% of all children die before the age of five.
During the past 50 years infant mortality rates have dropped by half while
adult mortality dropped by two-thirds.
28.       The decline in mortality has not always been associated with a
corresponding decline in morbidity. It is estimated that in any given week
in India, over a quarter of the nation's population is afflicted with dysen-
teries, diarrheas, or respiratory diseases reflecting inadequacy of potable
water supplies, sanitation facilities and housing. A 1969 Government survey
listed diseases linked to gastro-intestinal and respiratory illnesses as
responsible for over half of the deaths in that year. Preventable diseases
like diphtheria, whooping cough, polio, tetanus, and measles account for nearly
10% of deaths. Malnutrition is another major cause of adult morbidity and
child mortality.
The Project States
29.       The project would cover six districts in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and
three districts in Andhra Pradesh (AP). The State of UP had an estimated
population of about 99.3 million in March 1979, which makes it by far the
most populous State in India. In 1976, UP's crude birth rate was estimated
at 40 per thousand as compared to 34.4 for all-India. The crude death rate
in 1976 was 20.5 per thousand in UP compared to 15 for all-India. Almost all
socio-economic indicators show the State behind national averages and the six
project districts behind the State average. The population in the six project
districts was 15.9 million in March 1979 and the population density was 415
per square kilometer as compared to UP's average of 337 and the all-India
average of 194.
30.       The State of Andhra Pradesh (AP) had an estimated population of 49.7
million in March 1979, and ranked sixth in population size among the Indian
States. The official estimate of the crude birth rate was 33.8 per thousand
in 1976, and the estimated death rate was 14.5; these figures are very close
to the national averages. The population of the three project districts was
estimated at about 6.8 million in March 1979. The density per square kilometer
in the project districts amounted to 136 as against 179 for the whole State.
History of Family Planning in India
31.       The first official national family planning program in the world
started in India as early as 1952, when Rs 6.5 million was allocated in the
First Five-Year Plan. The initial activities were limited to a few pilot
projects and some studies. Under the second Five-Year Plan (1956-61),
Rs 50 million was allocated for the establishment of rural and urban family



- 11 -
planning clinics and the provision of grants to States, local bodies and
voluntary organizations for family planning work. This clinical approach was
modified in the early 1960's by the establishment of a nationwide program for
the extension of health services provided in rural areas. A program goal of
reducing the birth rate to 25 per 1,000 by 1973 was proposed to accelerate
the adoption of family planning. To carry out this new program approach, a
Commissioner for Family Planning was appointed in 1965 and a Department of
Family Planning established in the Ministry of Health in 1966. A "cafeteria
approach" providing a broad choice of contraceptive methods, including steril-
ization, various mechanical and chemical methods, and the rhythm method was a
key element of the program. The Intra-Uterine Device (IUD) became an important
program method and, in 1968, condom distribution was started through the
retail channels of leading distributors of consumer goods.
32.       Family planning performance statistics are incomplete for years
before 1966. The intensified activity of the late 1960s resulted in signifi-
cant increases in the number of acceptors. From just under 1 million equiva-
lent sterilizations 1/ in 1965/66, 2.1 million were recorded in 1967/68. As
a result of occasional major initiatives followed by periods of slack, the
performance has varied widely between different years and between methods of
contraceptives used. For example, IUD insertions declined rapidly from a peak
of 910,000 in 1966/67 to 355,000 in 1972/73. The number of sterilizations
also fell from a peak of 1.84 million in 1967/68 to 1.33 million in 1970/71.
In response to this decline, mass vasectomy camps were organized resulting
in 3.1 million sterilization cases in 1972/73. However, administrative
shortcomings, poor quality of services, and questionable practices led to
a discontinuation of the camps within the year, which caused a dramatic
decline to 942,000 sterilizations in the following year. The following table
summarizes the performance during the following years.
(In millions)
Family Planning Methods 1973-74 1974-75 1975-76 1976-77 1977-78 1978-79
Sterilizations              0.94    1.35    2.67    8.26    0.95    1.48
- Vasectomies              (0.40)  (0.61)  (1.44)  (6.20)  (0.19)  (0.39)
- Tubectomies              (0.54)  (0.74)  (1.23)  (2.06)  (0.76)  (1.09)
IUD insertions              0.37    0.43    0.61    0.58    0.33    0.55
Equivalent conventional
contraceptive users /a    3.01    2.52    3.53    3.69    3.24    3.60
Eligible couples effec-
tively protected (%)      14.9%   15.1%   17.2%   23.9%   22.8%   22.8%
Equivalent sterilizations  1.2       1.6      3.1     8.7      1.2     1.9
/a   Mainly condoms
1/   Equivalent sterilizations is an index designed to measure changes in
family planning performance; it is calculated by adding the use of
various methods adjusted by their respective weights (see Glossary).
Although the "percentage of eligible couples effectively protected" is
more widely used measure to show cumulative performance of family plan-
ning, "sterilization equivalent" is used to indicate changes in perform-
ance in the short-term.



- 12 -
33.       The program had lost its momentum by 1975.  In April 1976, the Min-
istry of Health and Family Planning produced a formal statement of national
population policy listing 16 specific measures. These included increasing
the minimum age of marriage, making the volume of Central Government financial
assistance to State governments partly dependent on family planning performance,
freezing the representation in the Central and State legislatures on the basis
of the 1971 census, according higher priority to female literacy, sharply
increasing financial incentives to sterilization acceptors, and permitting
individual States to propose legislation for compulsory sterilization.
34.       The dramatic increase in family planning performance between 1975
and early 1977 was a result of a vigorous, and sometimes over-zealous, pursuit
of acceptors by the machinery of the Government. Out of the 8.3 million
persons sterilized in 1976/77, some 6.3 million were sterilized between July
and December of 1976 alone.  However, substantial resistance to this family
planning drive started to build up before the end of 1976, and the reported
excesses became an issue in the elections which led to a change in Government
in March 1977. Despite early assertions by the Government of its support for
a completely voluntary family planning program, the program came virtually
to a halt in the North where the drive had been most severe. The performance
in 1977/78 declined to 1.2 million equivalent sterilizations, which was
lower than the 1967/68 level of 2.1 million. Vasectomies, the main method
pursued during the emergency, totalled only 190,000 in 1977/78 which was the
lowest in 14 years.
Present Strategies
35.       Following the elections of March 1977, the Government acted to
dispel the concerns about the family planning program. The strategy has been
to make steady efforts for provision of integrated health and family planning
services in rural areas while encouraging public support for a voluntary
program to reduce fertility. The policy statement of June 1977 states that
the concept of family planning should embrace all aspects of family welfare,
particularly those which are designed to protect and promote the health of
mothers and children. The Government has emphasized long term program devel-
opment and has avoided short-term major initiatives that cannot be sustained
and have, in the past, resulted in damaging cycles in performance. Voluntary
sterilization has been retained as a terminal method but equal emphasis is to
be placed on promotion of all methods, leaving each family to make its own
choice of contraceptive method. Increased emphasis is also placed on State
initiatives rather than on centralized programs. In March 1978, an act
increasing the minimum marriage age to 21 for males and 18 for females was
passed. The past year's performance holds out the hope that the demand for
family planning services and the capacity to deliver these services is return-
ing to the pre-1975 level. This return establishes a stable base on which to
build an effective program to lower fertility and mortality levels.
36.       The emphasis on improving primary health care in rural areas,
especially maternal and child health (MCH) services, is based on the assump-
tion that the rural population will choose to limit family size only when



- 13 -
the rate of infant mortality declines. This emphasis has resulted in imple-
mentation of three schemes which are being phased in gradually throughout
India: the multipurpose workers scheme, the community health workers scheme,
and the scheme of training of dais (traditional birth attendants). These
schemes were included in the guidelines issued by the Planning Commission to
the states in 1978 and they constitute a major thrust to correct the existing
imbalance between health services for urban and rural areas. The multipurpose
workers scheme, which was first introduced in 1975, provides an integrated
approach to delivering a package of primary health care services, including
family planning, MCH and nutrition services to the community. Under this
scheme, comprehensive services are provided by a team comprised of one male
and one female worker at the sub-center level at a rate of one sub-center for
5,000 persons to be achieved by the end of the Sixth Plan (1983). In October
1977, the GOI introduced the community health worker (CHW) scheme, which by
the end of 1978 already covered about 18% of the total rural population. CHWs
are appointed by village communities at an average ratio of one CHW to 1,000
people. The community is also responsible for supervising the CHW's work.
This is in line with a major assumption underlying present family welfare
strategy: that community involvement is an important element in widening the
acceptability of the small family norm in rural areas. The CHW works part
time after three months of training and is expected to treat minor ailments,
motivate the community towards acceptance of family planning, encourage the
use of basic health services, report communicable diseases and vital statis-
tics, and be concerned with improving environmental sanitation. Also in 1977,
the GOI intensified the training of dais (traditional birth attendants) with
the objective of training at least one dai per village of about 1,000 people.
Dais' training emphasizes hygienic deliveries, the need for immunization,
family motivation, and case referral to the PHC or sub-center. The CHWs and
dais also serve as a link between multipurpose workers and the community.
37.       All three schemes are steps in the right direction for evolving a
primary health care system in India. Preliminary evaluations indicate a
favorable impact in terms of increased coverage of health and family welfare
services. Problem areas constraining the effectiveness of the schemes include
selection, training and supervision of personnel; ambiguities in job descrip-
tions; and attitudes of medical officers on preventive versus curative work.
Other earlier concerns, however, have not materialized; those concerns inc-
luded the possibility of neglect of certain key activities by the multipur-
pose workers in view of their unipurpose background in vertical programs such
as Malaria or family planning, selection of community health workers biased
towards higher caste groups, and unwillingness of dais to participate in
training. The Government plans to continue to evaluate these schemes as
implementation proceeds.
Family Welfare Organization
38.       In India, policy-making for population matters, including family
planning, is the joint responsibility of the States and the Central Govern-
ment, but program implementation is a State responsibility. The family wel-
fare program (which comprises, basically, family planning plus maternal and



- 14 -
child health care), however, is of national importance and all expenditures
incurred by the States are met from Central funds. The GOI's Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare is responsible for overall program direction,
guidance and evaluation. At the national level, the Central Health and Family
Welfare Council, headed by the Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare,
meeting annually, advises on broad policy issues. The Council's membership
comprises all State Health Ministers, representatives of selected voluntary
and labor organizations, some members of Parliament and eminent personalities
active in the field of family welfare. The Secretary to the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, GOI, is in overall charge of the Department of
Family Welfare. The Additional Secretary and Commissioner of Family Welfare
coordinates the activities of five major divisions dealing with policy,
technical matters, information activities, family welfare activities in the
organized sector (industries and major national organizations such as the
railways), and evaluation. Throughout India, stationed in the capitals of
the major States, are 16 Regional Directors of Health and Family Welfare
responsible to the Center for liaising with and advising State Governments
on program implementation and feeding back information.
39.       In UP, the health and family welfare functions are under the overall
guidance of the Health Minister. He is supported by a Commissioner-cum-Health
Secretary and staff in the State Secretariat. Program implementation is the
responsibility of the Director of Medical, Health and Family Welfare Services,
who reports to the Health Secretary. An Additional Director is responsible
for Family Welfare. His office (known also as the State Family Welfare Bureau)
has five divisions dealing with operations, education and information, train-
ing, demography and evaluation, and maternal and child health (MCH). Two
State-level committees are responsible for providing policy guidance for the
family welfare program. One of these is a sub-committee of the Cabinet with
the Chief Minister as Chairman, and is the most important policy making body.
A second committee, chaired by the Commissioner-cum-Health Secretary, is the
State Family Welfare Publicity Coordination Committee, which takes decisions
on information and media campaigns. At divisional level (above the districts),
the program is supervised by a Joint Director. At the district level, program
implementation is the responsibility of the District Chief Medical Officer.
Districts are now divided into three areas, in each of which a Deputy Chief
Medical Officer is responsible for all health and family welfare activities.
Throughout India, three deputies are posted per district regardless of the
size of the district, its population or number of health facilities. In the
project area in UP, districts vary in population from 3.3 million to 1.8
million and in the number of primary health centers (PHCs), for example, from
32 to 16.
40.       The administration of health and family welfare services in AP is
similar to that of UP. In the Directorate of Medical and Health Services,
there are two Directors, one dealing with medical education, large teaching
hospitals and specialized hospitals, and the other responsible for all other
health and family welfare services. The latter is assisted by six Additional
Directors, one of whom is responsible for Family Welfare and MCH services.
There are four administrative regions in AP, each having a Regional Director
of Medical and Health Services to whom have been delegated functions relating
to finance and staff. In the districts, the District Medical and Health
Officer administers a structure similar to that in UP.



- 15 -
41.       Delivery of Family Welfare Services.  The base from which basic
health and family welfare services are delivered is the PHC, which covers a
community development block with an average population of 100,000. The
medical officer in charge of the PHC is supported by a second doctor, both of
whom are heavily involved with curative services. These doctors are almost
exclusively male and the treatment of women and, to a lesser extent, children
is frequently left to a Lady Health Visitor (LHV) or an Auxiliary Nurse
Midwife (ANM). A third doctor is being posted to all PHC in anticipation of
demand for services expected to be generated by the community health worker
(CHW) scheme (see paragraph 36). The doctors share the supervision work and
hold clinics in the sub-centers attached to the PHC. The sub-center, staffed
by an ANM, serves a population averaging about 10,000. The ANM's most
important functions concern the health of mothers and children, delivering
babies, providing family planning advice and distributing condoms, supporting
CHWs and dais (traditional birth attendants), and arranging for clinics run
by the PHC doctor and LHV.
42.       GOI has recognized that the major constraints in the present service
delivery system include low levels of coverage, inadequately trained staff and
limited and poor quality of information, education and communication (IEC)
activities. The system also suffers from an overly centralized organizational
structure, insufficient involvement of community and other government depart-
ments, inadequate managerial capabilities at the district and PHC level, and
lack of feedback on performance. In recognition of the constraints and weak-
nesses, GOI has prepared guidelines as to the level of facilities and staff-
ing, and supporting activities such as training, IEC and monitoring and eval-
uation. The planned system, under the organizational base of PHC, includes:
provision of one dai and one community health worker per 1,000 rural popula-
tion; and the establishment of one health sub-center staffed by a male and a
female multipurpose worker for every 5,000 population (see paragraph 36).
There will also be a male and a female health supervisor to oversee every
four male and every four female multipurpose workers. The referral services
are to be provided by upgraded PHC's which will have 30 beds each and the staff
will include specialists such as pediatricians and obstetricians/gynecologists.
The urban areas are served by centers providing MCH and family welfare services.
The new structure and facilities which are planned are sound but, when com-
plete, a PHC can effectively serve only about 50,000 people or about half the
population it is expected to cover. However, expansion of the number of PHCs
is constrained for the time being due to lack of resources.
Bank Group Activities in the Sector
43.       Th.e first Population Project (Credit 312-IN) was approved in May
1972 to finance experimental activities in selected districts of Uttar Pradesh
and Karnataka, for which IDA made available US$21.2 million and the Kingdom
of Sweden a grant of US$10.6 million. It was designed to test the efficacy
of various program inputs, and to evolve, through experimentation, ways and
means for attaining better performance of the family planning program. The
project was intended to complete the health infrastructure in the project dis-
tricts to GOI target levels and to provide training facilities and equipment
to implement the program. Additional inputs for an urban program, an inten-
sive rural program and a supplementary nutrition program were provided to



- 16 -
assess their impact on fertility within the existing socio-economic conditions.
Population Centers in each of the two State capitals, Lucknow and Bangalore,
were established to refine experimental designs, develop a management informa-
tion and evaluation system, evaluate performance and recommend changes in the
program for improving performance. The project supported development of
health management units at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, and
the Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad. Project inputs included
the construction and equipment of facilities (including paramedical training
schools), the provision of transport, equipment, technical assistance for over-
seas training, and the provision of staff salaries, which constituted the
incremental costs of supplementing the Government's program.
44.       Implementation of project infrastructure has proceeded steadily;
virtually all of a total of 1,545 buildings have now been completed without
significant delays. Staffing patterns are also complete and vehicles were
procured by the end of 1976. After some initial staffing problems and prob-
lems relating to their integration with other State Government programs were
resolved, the Population Centers gradually built up an institutional capability.
In 1976/77, just as the project infrastructure was completed, and the support-
ing institutes were becoming functionally effective, intensive family planning
drives were launched. These drives affected the research work and experimental
strategies, masking the result of the project inputs and inhibiting evaluation.
The project was, therefore, extended by two years to June 30, 1980. Available
information suggests substantially higher levels of performance in the project
districts, as compared with non-project districts, even during the serious
slack immediately following the emergency. Experience with the nutrition com-
ponent showed that, while it was feasible to establish a supplementary food
distribution system in the context of the family planning delivery services,
improvements in nutritional status were negligible, mainly due to widespread
sharing of food supplements, and the model tested was too costly to be replica-
ble. By December 31, 1979, US$20.2 million had been disbursed. The present
Closing Date is June 30, 1980.
45.       The Bank Group has also supported maternal and child health care
programs through two of its urban development projects -- the Madras Urban
Development Project (Cr. 687-IN) and the Second Calcutta Urban Development
Project (Cr. 756-IN). The Madras project supports the establishment, in
slums and sites and services areas, of child welfare centers which deliver
basic health services, conduct immunization campaigns, and provide nutritional
supplements to undernourished children and nutrition, health and family plan-
ning education to their mothers. Similarly, the Calcutta project supports a
series of primary health centers and health subcenters in low-income areas,
which provide preventive care as well as treatment and operate outreach
health, nutrition, and family planning services.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The project was proposed by the Ministry of Health and Family Wel-
fare of the Government of India (GOI) and the States of Andhra Pradesh (AP)



- 17 -
and Uttar Pradesh (UP). The project appraisal was concluded in October 1979
and negotiations were held in December 1979. The Indian negotiating team was
led by Mrs. S. Grewal, Additional Secretary and Family Welfare Commissioner,
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GOI, and the team included representa-
tives of the GOI Ministry of Finance and the States of AP and UP. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 2668a-IN dated January 15, 1980) is being circulated
to the Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
47.       The project has been designed to assist the Government of India
(GOI) in the development of its family welfare structure and strategy which
is expected to be implemented throughout India by the end of the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (March 1988). The project would spearhead the first batch of
32 districts in seven States, selected according to criteria which indicate
their relative backwardness in terms of socio-economic development, the
shortage of health services infrastructure, and high fertility and mortality
levels. For these area-specific programs, GOI has sought external assistance
from various multilateral and bilateral agencies. The proposed project would
cover six districts of UP and three districts of AP. The project would have
as its major objectives the lowering of infant and child mortality and morbid-
ity, the improvement in the health status of mothers and children and the
lowering of fertility.
48.       To improve coverage and quality of services as well as to increase
efficiency of resource use, both of which are required to achieve project
objectives, the project provides support for the service delivery system
according to GOI guidelines (see paragraph 36) and for the supporting activ-
ities such as training, information and motivation, monitoring and evaluation.
The GOI has also emphasized, in its policy statement of June 1977, the fol-
lowing points regarding the family welfare program:
(a) Family planning will be an integral part of a program
embracing all aspects of family welfare, particularly those
which are designed to protect and promote the health of
mothers and children;
(b) Efforts will be entirely voluntary in respect of contra-
ceptive acceptance;
(c) All methods of contraception, both male and female, will be
promoted with equal emphasis and it will be left to every
family to decide which method of contraception, if any, it
would wish to adopt; and
(d) The family welfare program will be primarily directed towards
those currently underserved, particularly in the rural areas.
49.       The project would have five major functional components correspond-
ing to the five major areas of the program: (a) service delivery; (b) train-
ing; (c) information, education and communications (IEC) activities; (d) mon-
itoring, evaluation and operational research; and (e) program and project



- 18 -
management. It would also make provision to carry out a number of innovative
activities during the project period. Lessons learned under the first project
(Credit 312-IN) were fully taken into account in designing this project.
Project Description
50.       Service Delivery.  The project would bring the nine project dis-
tricts in two States under the multi-purpose worker (MPW) scheme (see para-
graph 36). Under this scheme a sub-center would be established for every
5,000 people staffed by one female and one male MPW. So far, only one of the
nine districts (Chittoor in AP) has been brought under such a scheme. To
implement this program, the number of female MPWs would have to be doubled,
male MPWs would have to be increased by one-third and supervisory staff for
females increased by about 65% and for males by about 35%. In UP, of the
about 3,150 female MPWs required, about 1,350 are now available, leaving
nearly 1,800 to be posted during the project period. In AP, about 550 female
MPWs would be needed to be posted to achieve the necessary strength of about
1,200. These deficits would be met by training at the local level as a part
of the project. The position regarding male MPWs is less serious; about 450
are needed in AP and 900 in UP. UP's requirements for male MPWs would be met
by transferring presently surplus health supervisors and AP's by training
additional recruits. To supervise the MPWs, one Health Supervisor (HS) would
be posted for every four MPWs; additional HSs required to be posted after
training would be about 120 males and about 140 females for AP and about 220
males and 490 females for UP.
51.       To extend further the availability of primary health services, all
districts will be covered by the community health workers (CHWs) and dai
schemes immediately. In UP, 15,660 CHWs would be required, of whom about
9,850 are already trained and available, leaving about 5,800 to be selected
and trained. In AP, there are already about 2,600 CHWs and a further 3,400
would be selected and trained. CHWs are recruited by the community to which
they belong. Dais (traditional birth attendants) are also to be recruited on
the same scale as CHWs. In UP 2,800 dais remain to be recruited and in AP an
additional 4,780 need to be recruited and trained. This will make one trained
dai available for every 1,000 people. In addition, the project would provide
for an additional 100 medical officers for primary health centers, 120 medical
specialists in gynecology and obstetrics, and staff for management at various
levels.
52.       Due to financial constraints, there is a considerable shortage of
facilities for sub-centers in both AP and UP. In light of current and anti-
cipated available funds, the provision of facilities for all sub-centers
India-wide would be difficult to achieve at a scale of 1:5,000 people. The
GOI has, therefore, decided that the program should aim to cover about 50%
of the required facilities by the end of the Seventh Plan (1989). The project
thus provides for the construction, furnishing and equipping of nearly 2,000
sub-centers in the project districts, sufficient to raise the number of sub-
centers with suitably designed buildings to the targeted coverage. The remain-
ing sub-centers would function in rented buildings at present, although this
is a less desirable alternative, and would be supplied with necessary equip-
ment. The States would ensure that the sub-centers would be sited within the
inhabited area of the villages in which they are located. To ensure that the



- 19 -
facilities are properly maintained, the States shall make appropriate alloca-
tions of funds and facilities for the maintenance of all buildings used for
PHCs and sub-centers in the project area (Sections 2.06 and 2.08(a) of Project
Agreement).
53.       The project also provides for upgrading and equipping of various
other rural and urban health facilities including facilities for maternal and
child health care, for family planning services, and for training. Of the
210 primary health centers (PHCs) in project districts, 117 are functioning
in inadequate, often rented accommodations. The project would provide for
the construction and furnishing of facilities to overcome this deficiency.
In support of the GOI program to strengthen referral facilities in rural areas
(see paragraph 42), about 60 PHCs would be upgraded by addition of 10-bed wards
and facilities for minor surgery. In addition, seven obstetrical/gynecological
centers attached to rural women's hospitals would be constructed under the
project. The project would also finance construction of two maternity homes
in urban areas and one maintenance workshop for vehicles and one for equipment.
54.       One of the major problems in the program is the lack of staff
mobility. To alleviate this situation in the project districts, the project
would provide some 170 jeeps and 65 ambulances mainly for primary health
centers, 14 minibuses for training activities, 40 vans for IEC activities
and 10 cars for project management. The States would make appropriate alloca-
tion of funds to ensure adequate operations and maintenance of all vehicles
used for health and family welfare purposes in the project area (Section 2.08(b)
of Project Agreement). To improve the mobility of health workers in rural
areas, the project would provide for advances to the staff willing to use their
own bicycles. The project also provides for vehicle maintenance facilities.
55.       Training.  To provide staff for the extended coverage of family wel-
fare services and to improve their quality, training is an important element
of program activities. The project would provide both for basic pre-service
training facilities and for upgrading of professional skills. Once selected
by the community, community health workers would be trained for three months
at the nearest primary health centers. Training of the 5,800 CHWs required
in Uttar Pradesh and the 3,400 in Andhra Pradesh would be completed at the
PHCs in project districts within the first year. Dai training would also be
carried out by the PHC doctor and health specialists at PHC for a period of
30 working days. PHCs would also be the focus for retraining of auxiliary
nurse midwives and male health workers for their new role in the multi-purpose
worker scheme. Female MPWs would receive 18 months' training including six
months practical training in the field. About 1,500 of the required number
of female MPWs in Uttar Pradesh will be trained by improving the six basic
training schools located in the project districts, the remainder will be
trained elsewhere in the State. Since there are no schools in the Andhra
Pradesh districts, five temporary schools would be created to train some 800
female MPWs. Health supervisors would be trained in the Government facilities
in the two States. Additional staff required for all training is expected to
be available locally.



- 20 -
56.       The most important cadre requiring reorientation are the medical
officers, from the District Chief Medical Officers to the PHC doctors. The
Uttar Pradesh doctors would be trained in management and MCH/family planning
service delivery techniques in Ahmedabad by the Indian Institute of Management
based on courses introduced under the first project (Credit 312-IN), but
doubled in length to three weeks' duration. A total of about 520 Uttar
Pradesh doctors would be trained in batches of 30. In addition, 150 PHC
doctors would be trained in the State's medical schools for four weeks with
primary focus on maternal and child health and family planning. In Andhra
Pradesh such training courses would be conducted at the Regional Health and
Family Welfare Training Center in Kurnool with assistance from the Adminis-
trative Staff College of India, Hyderabad. In UP, the project would provide
for construction and equipping of a training wing for the Lucknow Population
Center, and equipping and furnishing for other centers. In AP, the project
would provide for 5 hostels for training female multipurpose workers, and
improvements, equipping and furnishing of other facilities.
57.       Information, Education and Communication Activities (IEC).  The
main objective of this component is to improve the demand for and utilization
of family welfare services. To achieve this objective, the project would
aim to improve the effectiveness of field staff by developing their communi-
cation skills; increase the involvement of the community in family welfare
activities; reorient mass communication activities by decentralization and by
development of an effective monitoring and evaluation system. Mass communi-
cations would be improved by means of feature films, audio-visual aid, cultural
programs, slides, video service and extension education in other development
agencies. The project would provide the necessary vehicles, equipment and
materials.
58.       Monitoring, Evaluation and Operations Research.  In India, there is
an extensive system of collection and collation of family welfare data and
several agencies are used for the evaluation of these data. At present, there
is little feedback to operational units and analysis of program performance
data is inadequate. The approach under the proposed project takes into account
the shortcomings of the existing system and experience under the first project.
Under the proposed project, data collection and analysis in the project dis-
tricts would be the responsibility of the State demographic and evaluation
cells into which the vital statistics cells of the two States would be merged.
The demographic and evaluation cells in UP would be guided and assisted by
the Lucknow Population Center and in AP by the Bangalore Population Center.
Monitoring and evaluation capability at the center would also be strengthened
by provision of additional staff and equipment.
59.       The expansion and improvement of family welfare services and support
activities are expected to lead to significant improvements in health status
and fertility reduction. The project, therefore, makes provision to monitor,
not only the progress of project inputs, but also its impact on the population.
Various performance indicators would be monitored annually and the experience
gained would be used to refine predictions as to the impact of the services on
the health and contraceptive status of the population. They would also be



- 21 -
used for a final project evaluation. The project would also provide for
operational research through a number of studies to assist program managers
in an ongoing evaluation of project implementation and program performance.
The States would each undertake a mid-term review of the progress of the
Project activities in the respective areas including health and family wel-
fare data collection systems under the project and would make the results
of such review available to the Association not later than March 31, 1983
(Section 2.09 of Project Agreement).
60.       Program and Project Management.  To strengthen the program manage-
ment in the project areas, the project would effect a number of organizational
changes in addition to those proposed for the IEC and monitoring and evalua-
tion activities. At present, three Deputy Chief Medical Officers (in UP)
or Deputy Medical and Health Officers (in AP) are posted in each district
regardless of the size of population or number of PHCs. Under the proposed
project the number of the officers would be increased to provide for a ratio
of one to about eight primary health centers (PHCs) so that the supervision of
all the health matters vested under the Medical Officers receive due attention.
Secondly, in view of the broader implications of the family welfare policy,
the responsibility for the coordination of the program would be vested in the
District Magistrate (or Collector in Andhra Pradesh). To enable the latter
to cope with this increased responsibility, a district project officer would
be appointed with supporting staff. The responsibility of the District Chief
Medical Officers for delivery of all health services would not be affected.
Finally, the project would provide for upgrading and strengthening of the
positions of Joint Directors and their staff in Uttar Pradesh. These posi-
tions have been created to relieve the supervisory load in the State Health
Department in UP because of the State's huge size and population.
61.       Innovative Activities.  The proposed project would set aside funds
(US$1.5 million) to undertake a number of innovative activities related to
program objectives. Examples of the type of innovative activities which may
be funded are schemes to: support the activities of a voluntary agency in the
family welfare field in a particular village; introduce family planning topics
in regular training programs of non-health extension workers. The proposals
would have to meet the following criteria: (i) relevance to the program
objectives; (ii) innovativeness; (iii) feasibility of administration and eva-
luation; and (iv) replicability. The proposals for such activities would
require approval of the respective State Committees (see para 63). IDA approval
of the relevant proposal would be a condition of disbursement for each activity
to cost over $50,000 (paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
62.       Implementation.  The project implementation organization would sub-
stantially follow the pattern of the first Population Project (Credit 312-IN)
which proved to be effective. GOI's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
would coordinate the activities in the two States and oversee the implementa-
tion of this project. The implementation responsibility for the program in
the project areas would be the same as in the non-project areas, except for
appropriate strengthening as described in paragraph 60. At the State level,
the responsibility for implementation of the project would lie with the
respective Directors of the Medical, Health and Family Welfare Services. The



- 22 -
Directors are assisted by several Additional Directors who, in turn, are
assisted by Joint Directors at divisional or regional levels. At the district
level, Chief Medical Officers would remain in charge of all medical, health
and family welfare programs, assisted by their deputies. Medical Officers
are in charge of the primary health centers at the block level.
63.       In Uttar Pradesh, under the first project, a Governing Board has
been established under the State's Chief Secretary, and a Steering Committee
has been established under the Health Secretary. These Committees, which have
been effective in removing bottlenecks in the administration and ensuring co-
ordination of various project activities, would be retained for the proposed
project with appropriate expansion to include the functioning of new compo-
nents. In Andhra Pradesh, the problems of size and distance are much less
and existing machinery is modest compared to UP. A separate committee struc-
ture is not envisaged in AP; the existing Family Welfare Committee at the
State and District levels would also serve for the project. The project
construction works would be the responsibility of the Project Director of
Works in UP and the Chief Engineer of the Public Works Department in AP.
These agencies would be strengthened, particularly the architectural aspects,
to undertake the large civil works proposed under the project.
64.       Project Cost and Financing.  The total project cost is estimated
at US$96 million equivalent (including taxes and duties of US$4 million), of
which the foreign exchange component is about US$17 million or 18% of total
costs. Included in the cost is about US$60.4 million for strengthening of
service delivery, US$5.1 million for training, US$6.0 million for information,
education and communication, US$0.8 million for research and evaluation,
US$1.2 million for project management, US$1.5 million for innovative activ-
ities, and US$21.0 million for contingencies.
65.       Recurrent expenditures of the Department of Medical, Health and
Family Welfare of UP amounted to US$103 million in FY 1978/79. This repre-
sented about 7.6% of total state recurrent expenditures in that year. In
AP, recurrent expenditures of the Directorate of Medical and Health Services
amounted to about US$68 million in the same year. This represented about 6.9%
of the total State recurrent expenditures. The proposed project would add
about US$7.7 million at May 1979 prices to recurrent expenditures in UP
in FY 1984/85, the last year of the project. This represents about 7.5% of
the State's recurrent expenditures in the health sector in FY 1978/79. In
AP, the corresponding increase in recurrent expenditures would be US$3.3
million, or 4.7% of the state's recurrent expenditures in the health sector
in FY 1978/79.  This implies an annual growth rate of about 1.5% in UP and
about 0.9% in AP in recurrent expenditures on health in real terms over the
project period which, given the priority assigned to family welfare, should
be well within the capacity of each State's budgetary resources. The planning
and finance ministries in both States have reviewed and approved the proposed
project.
66.       The proposed IDA credit of US$46 million equivalent would finance
about 50% of the total project cost, excluding taxes and duties. Of the
balance, SIDA has expressed an interest in providing co-financing to the
possible extent of US$23 million equivalent. Nevertheless, GOI would provide



- 23 -
all remaining funds required for the project even if SIDA or other co-financing
does not materialize. The project would provide retroactive financing of up
to US$1 million, for expenditures after July 1, 1979, for essential start-up
activities such as the establishment of construction units, project staffing,
training, preparation for baseline surveys and IEC activities.
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       Contracts for civil works (US$30.1 million) would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures of the
State concerned, which are satisfactory to the Association. Civil works
contracts, including additions to existing buildings, would be individually
small and spread geographically and over time, and would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. A small portion of the civil works, not
exceeding 30% of the total, would be carried out departmentally in isolated
areas where suitable contractors would not be available. In the interest of
ensuring adequate maintenance and spares, vehicles (US$2.4 million) would be
procured by local competitive bidding. Furniture, equipment and materials
(US$5.8 million) would be procured under local competitive procedures satis-
factory to the Association. The balance of the project costs consists incre-
mental operating and maintenance costs (US$35.2 million) including staff
salaries, innovative activities (US$1.5 million) and contingencies (US$21
million).
68.       As in the first Population Project (Credit 312-IN), all disburse-
ments would be made against certified statements of expenditures to be sup-
plied by the GOI Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Supporting documents
would be retained by GOI for inspection by IDA during project supervision.
The project accounts would be audited annually and the audit reports made
available to the Association within nine months after the close of each fiscal
year.
Project Benefits and Risks
69.       The major benefit of the project would be to provide improved family
welfare services to a population of about 23 million as the first part of a
comprehensive program that would gradually cover the whole country. These
services include both family planning and maternal and child health services.
The project is expected to help raise the contraceptive use rate in the
project districts of UP from its present level of 11-13% of eligible couples
to 24-26% by 1985. For AP, the comparable expected increase is from 25-27%
to 35-37%. The percentage of mothers provided with pre-natal services is
expected to increase, over the same period, from 10% to 50% in the project
districts of UP and from 20% to 50% in the project districts of AP. The
percentage of deliveries attended by trained personnel is expected to increase
from 15% to 75% in the project districts of both States. Finally, the immu-
nization coverage of children aged 1 to 5 years is expected to increase from
5% to 50% in the project districts of both States.
70.       The major risks in the proposed project lie in the implementation
of the strategies which will be adopted to improve the health status of the



- 24 -
population and provide the basis for sustained contraceptive practice. Their
implementation involves thousands of staff and millions of people and, as in
all attempts to change attitudes on a mass scale, the outcome is not easily
predicted. Organizational arrangements have been designed to minimize these
risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement, between the Association and the
States of Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
73.       An additional condition of disbursement, specified in paragraph 4
of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement, would be the Association's
prior approval of the schemes expected to cost over US$50,000 under the
Innovative Activities.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommended that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Ernest Stern
January 24, 1979



ANNEX I
iNDIA - 83OC. 13008  DTA sun                            Page  1  of  5
TMD 11                            IOLAAO  O.f6  -- ionD   CIT (V                         Z
atoT.  I        3217.4                                                  U-      1     S    11 Ia
3ICULTUIAL    1SI 63                              'a     MEET          CJDtMC       toCll s     80m
1u0 L      1970 / UTSIAIS A         It0108 .                CUD Ollt  A    =
at  U CAPITA 1M8)                    40.0        90.0    180.0            191.1      209.6       467.5
883!  OUSIWIO MP  CAPflL
E  WOGMBO  COAT IqIVAL)          142.0       11l.0    211.0             6.1        83.9       262.1
IOI&IUAM VITAL 8E2Sf
rowl              (Ki
POFUlAXIOU. oAlLt m-YU&   ( 01)    44.9       547.6      31.IL
0 r8 ?OVMA2IU  (P3U  Of tOTAL) 17.9           1i.7       20.7            13.2       16.4.
IOMATUX noso8r
NPULAnfoU U TME 2000 (131.09)                         973.0
51AT1O0U8   POPIUXlAO   ("183IS)                     1643.0
Tr  StATIOURY rOLO      UAD                          215
Pm  SQ. M.                       132.0     1U7.0      192.0            86.6       49.4        4563
PU SQ. DI. AGRICU16TUMAL LOW    247.0       3W-.0     367.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
PPolWAUOI Am8 SWUCOCUS (PERCENT)
0-14 TM:.                        40.6        42.5      42.0            46.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YT.                         55.7        54.6      55.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 TIE. AID uon0                   3.5         2.4       3.0             3.1        3.0         2.8
POPMLATIOU GW3tI 342  (1308!)
TOYAuL                             1.9        2.3       2.1             2.6        2.4         2.7
ELAN                              2.5LL       3.3       3.1             4.1        4.6         4.3
C1UDE awn RATE (PU IWUSAID)         43.0        40.0      35.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
ClUDE DUIII U6Tt (PR TWUISID)       21.0        17.0      14.0           16.4       15.9        11.7
Csoss itocnoio UTZ                  3.2         2.9       2.4             3.2        2.9         2.7
PhtlL. S.PAIUIUG
ACCEFTOIS. AiUnL (UOUSAMDS)    64.0        37t2.0    4518.0
usD5 (FUCDT OF 111D0 Y)            *-        IZ.0      16.9             7.9       12.2        13.2
OOD AND  ImrTion
DltX or 1O0D PROVDCT10
M  CAPITAW (t969-71-100)        100-0       102.0    101.0             ".4        98.2        99.6
PM CAPITA SWUPLY O
CALORItS (PtlCEST 0f
3EQOI3EIS)                     95.0        92.0      89.0            93.0       93.3        94.7
PtlTEINS (GRAMS PTA DAT)         51.0        53.0      41.0            56.1       52. 1       54.3
0o WICH ANML AID PUL11          19.0        16.0     12.6            10.4       13.6        17.4
CRI1  (AG1S  1-4) 408TALT! UATt    28.0        22.0      18.0            19.2       18.5        11.4
RULTII
LIFE E2NITANCT AT 8IM  (lYEAS)    45.0         41.0      51.0            49.1       49.3        54.7
INrANT SOLTALLT  IATE (PI
T)USA1D)                             ..       134.0        ..              ..      105.4        68.1
AccEss 0o sAn! YA   (PULcT  OP
POPJAIION)
TOtAL                              ..         L7.0     33.0            31.5       26.3        34.4
URAN                               ..        60.0      83.0            63.9       58.5        57.9
IL                                  ..        6.0      20.0            20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCEE  DISPO1 L (PZ08311
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .         18.0     20.0            15.7       16.0        40.8
WUI4                               ..        85.0      87.0            66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..         1.0       2.0             2.5        3.5        27.7
?OPULAT0INP PEPR YSICIA          5800.0Th    4890.0    3135.0          7107.9    11396.4      6799.4
ROPULATION PER NISIG PELSON      9630.9L    5220.0   6320.0          12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER SOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2590. 0L    2020.0   1231.0           2738.4    1417.1        726.5
URBAN                               ...                  ...                     197.3       272.7
RLUAL                              ..          ..        ..              ,,     2445.9      1404.4
AMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..              ..       24.8        27.5
HOUtSING
WVERGE SUZE Of HOUSEtOL
TOTAL                             3.2                   5.2              ..        5.3         5.4
URBAS                             5.2          ..       4.8              ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                             5.2          ..       5.3              ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER O PERSONS PER ROOM
TCTAL                             2.6         2.8        ..
RLRAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS T0 _LECTRICITY (PERCFNT
OF OWELLINGS)
-.OTAL                             ..          ..        ..              ,,        2. 5       28. 1
URBAN                              *-          *-        ..              .        17.8        45.1
RRA L                               ..         ..        ..              .,         ..         9.9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A)ERAGE5
INDIA                        1- !1ST UCENT ESTaHTE)  a
SAME        SANE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GUOGRAPSIC   IiCOtE      INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /I
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                61.0        72.0       79.0            59.5       63.3        82.7
MALE                 80.0        87.0      94.0             76.9       79.1        87.3
F1SAI                40.0        55.0      63.0             43.7       46.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 20.0        29.0      28.0             19.5       16.7        21.4
!AIE                 30.0        39.0      38.0             27.8       22.1        33.0
FD(AZ                10.0        17.0      18.0             10.0       10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S o0  SECONDARY)  8.0         6.0/i      ..              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACSHR RATIO
PEIMARY                           29.0        40.0      42.0             42.2       41.0        34.1
SECOCIDARY                        16.0        17.0        ..               ..       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0        33.0       36.0            25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         1.0       1.2              2.3        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        21.0      24.0             15.5       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.1       0.5               ..        2.4        13.5
IfEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENCRAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        16.0       16.0             6.2        5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATEENDANCE PFR CAPITA  4.0         6.3        3.8              ..        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABCR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3        32.6      32.2             21.6       26.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             73.0        73.0      73.0             66.3       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0      11.0              9.6       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               63.0        40.2       39.2            35.8       36.9        37.1
HALE                                57.1         52.3      51.3            52.3       52.4        48.8
F114ALE                             27.9        27.1      26.2             15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1        1.1             1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCNT OF BOUSEHOLDS   26.7         26.3/1       ..             ..          ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.97       ..              ..          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.771       ..             ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.271       ..              ..         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      83.0             86.5       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      73.0             76.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..        91.9       179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.0             50.4       54.8       103.7
ESTIKIMTED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
.RBAN                               ..          ..      67.0             44.3       44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      52.0             52.4       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicaole.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
tndicators depends on availability of data and is not aniform.
'lb    nless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
!c    South Asia;  !d  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita,
1976);    f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million;   aJ  1951-60;   'h  1962;
,:  i958;   _  1967;   /k  1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 nillion;   _I  1964-o5.
Most Recent Escimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



ANNEX I
--  ~~ ~~ inEAIin ~Page 3 of ~
Re. Atbogdh the data are doaatea f      acl   . MoU eesrlyJgete 54MOMW       acmiatY             m weda , It  -hel  a&" be bated tt tbw NW at lo* Inmea-
"M13yooqw.al. b.c.... of the lack of  tstadAodlx*d ldafiali    Md inqt. aged   i Ufacet ecotri.m is msotlla a   Mhe data. gm data ar, DOmetb.OI8.,
oa..N   to deo.ribe orders of Naitod, indicate trMe, ead ohmaratwise, sohall WMJ    dlff.aa-ee hIe    comtrts.
The -t  lz1arun'                for eth iodi.otor are 9poltiose..eaitd g-MM&ie  earn, oaClodif  the eate     vales  or the j.MAdl Or Md the ist poPAIlted
M tMV7 1-  g     lug"to lack of data, vonp avoayme   of alU latdl*IOP  fe  CW1tel owpla. au1 Mwarter  uk at ltiMAMSt   Of heasa  to llat.. NWd Mnrt.
S)ip.psal, Henalag, Imo0., Distribution sAd Pv,,rty for other solatey rwas we, pVpslatirn-mW* gemtri@ mem itbmt ealeei.. of the eetro vile.m sad
te. ARt  )to.P.sod catby.)                                                                   Aeaae                .                   wo~ea0eeel(iw to  susjatmiL  l oal a.tbea   c  sinede
_Mstya       oot roosot estimte of .gioolt-ca  sres, ,.ad tmparri2y                  Porctge   of their rwepoetiea pagmlatirne. kovet  diapeeel NW    ctode
or pre"eoostly fvr orop., past-s, eaket and kithta  gord0.e or to                         the eofleeti   ad udiposal, with w  eAumt tweatm, of home  eret.
lie fallee                                                                                ladA " -L eat.a bet     wkwtbrmhse #AWot   o w t uete  of pit pojetet ma  4.ailar
GNPPo   ApfA  UU)-SIP per  spita  cst .t    t  -r         -                          - tpNa.,                          1atiep divided 1w mor  Of pretioi.j fthiticaa
..l.usonersid byhod - oLd Rant Atl.. (1976-78 tbste);                                             rr   m       e  .01ol at i       itaeiiiri
1960, 1970,  Pad1r7cdaa.,  Peltr    dvided by mobr of peactiolag  ml.e
OnsCbmPTISI PER CAPITA - Anotal ons q,ioa of comiroal on                               m9pm!*-r               l         .ejon .el"  marse". 0.  ae.d8ett mawes..
(out ed ligit.    tol...  .atoal es   eaIng- .0wetga-~                                                                               aal - pilatIOn  (total,  rbh.,
1970  sad197 taita. tro                                                                         at,.15 gm santuat. re-ems..and g.of bo.pitol b"aalb.I
tk.ej. elotriottY i IakilommsoWr... o0.1 sqsivalt per ..Fita; 1960,                         01M         di&o pee be  1a-ea   %ods,eaiL.lia   hotia   a  rhiittos   soe
Uoaitals are .etabliahmt   pormmmutjy staffed hW at ideet  npW- .
POPUIATIO  AND VITAL STATITICS                                                                Utebli.omost  peo-idlug prbwip&Wi  ousteial oa-, are wot iwebede. keeal
To  r?44V       .       _Y5   (.l11100) - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, sad                     hospita., ~ee,          'acad  helth sad rndio.l ctntr  oot pumment* staffed
1477 data.                                                         hi *~~~~~~~b    (si .(ht hi a indacal aeeiteat  mrs. aidelfe, etc.)  hith offer
Orbs.  toatioa Coerorat of total) - Rati. of orb.  to total poplation;                      Iaptta    ooela    a  Peoi&s a lhated Imp  of -"..I facilitie..
dffees  defitia. of ...s  ....a  MY affeot O.oeprabiiity of data .f.ei.   to or dieohege. fro
wacag OoOOt-.e; 1960, 1970, sod 1975 data.
l2etzil.ti.-20M- fLorreot p,opolati   projeoti... ac. b.ed 0.                 _____
I4  ttl  oltIoa hy age    .od aesd their ecotality sod friiy                        AeeRo   f~.oA(eea   a    eod -ttl  .ha   a   a
rate. .rjetnparat-r  for  -tort]ity rates  -Wsriee Of theec                        - i, Em.*     d  Lmeitolol         .po   a16~.e.saelee   qeater  sod
1-vel  -.-iglo   lifo eopevtaoy at birth ioo.a  eith o.-try-.                          their -I. ee.i.  A hoarda. -~ lodg.r  W -    W sot be lsOklodad ha the
per -apit  1000..  Ie.eI, sod fele. lifo enpeotaooy etobili.ieg at                     haeb-OId for sttistioal porpose..
77.5 ye..  The pa-aters for fertility rate also ha.e three, la,val                  Aveag  ue'of wreas                ras._toal.arh. sd r-!  - Averegs  -o,b-
as-faog delt 1    ho iffrtility a-crdiog to iooe, leve  sod puat                - ~        Por... pe   oaS           ah.                  ..ee   oopido.ventional  -ealigs,
f..ily o.n.-Ia  porfre-o. Each co,try is ith  .. osad  -a  Of thee.                    repectirely.  Mh1siieg  eaclad ne s.poemmot et~atac. sd  -seephed pats..
niae ..oedi.atihoo Of soetolity sod fertility t-eds for projeotioa                   A* ,to   01t                                          tw        ra.N            -  Co-
P.   oen-vet~.116a1b                                                                                                  nIsrIcltlaI "ivag.aarteflS pereeat         e  of
St'ti .. y  ooSoltion - I  aotionar  popelotioa ther  1.0 grooth                          total,ah,    0.4r,a   aseie.e reepeotivety.
.i-O  thy birth rate i. eq-ol to the death rate, sod also the age
.tr-otae reeaa   Ionstant. This is  chioved only after fortlity rate.              IBJkRISRB
delioe to the roplscet 10-1 of -oit net reprod.ction rat., eheeQT-d1"n
eaoh  eoeratioo of  -oc  replaos It.elf e..tly.  The stationar  pops-                                   - I                             jYOrose total  e*A- .0  faemie  -.II1-
la. i 0V   I  a. -  istle d othe ha..o  the proisted chs-trso i.tie.                                      -a%ft  wimry           =eP.M_t.gea of reetive p,oeay
ofte  o   ltOn Ia the year 2000, sod the rate Of deeliae of fertility              e0ool-agi papalatim.a; soernily  llae   hilyea  agod 6-11 yes   hot
rate to replaceaeot leve.                                                                 adjatad The 4ffero t  -sgth. Of Pwim"7 eaoa_o; for -Dnoos0ti   vith
va   thasiar  oooolaio  Is reached - The yeac olh. .ttiooary ppoutlai0                   .Iser"a  sdeatioa earollslt NW  semeed I0 pmeet  I.-e  Ca-  Pepile
slo  h.  bee  reached,                                                                    ar  helm  o- *.- te offiota  wohel Mp.
Psioolatloa Seselty                                                 ~S-of7 sd oo   -otl    1.cdfM Io- Cowtad       tve   eoade,y
Peroo.ha.- ad-yarpobodtioo P.e aqoar  kilOater (100 htootar.) Of                      &A.ottoa Mesie   at lee   os   er f erppoovd pel'eR  oy  st.vtioo;
total acsP-edee gasra-L vOOational, or teacher tralnleg instrM.tio;o for p.pl 18
Per eq. ha   giotcl ld - Coaipted so bhoc  for sgriosAt-cl lead                             .e lY of 12 to 17 year  of ego;  -oevepoAda   .-rS.a ar  geerally
Ptyol.tion A.e Stte,otac   0penet) -Children (0-it year)   - okieg-.ag                      Vog tioea. a XeLMMn  (arcatofeeda                 - Voeatioaal Intatlttioaa  1-01.6
y5-    %, ea .)an  retre     Y yer, sod ovr) ., peroetegee of old  -yer                toaol   ~til   rohrpoe   ahIob opeat  -adapead.tly Or a
poPolatioo; I96, 1970, sod 1977 data.                                                       dapartwa-t. of sacoadary iotit tte.0
Pno.la.tin Oroetb Rate (perest  -total - An... Ia- rth rate. of total aid-                  PVoL-teae  ratlio    ohae._       sdacod          - Total .tod.0. eeole   In
yearpopoltio   for I~0t,1W5-70, sod 1.9T0-77.                                            prae'sdoeode   eel   ii                      i ra.r  or teah..  in the oorre-
Poo-ltiso  iroeth bate  -pest   - obs  - A.,ooe geosth rates of orbn                          eposedieglels
populathoes  for 1950-60, 19b0-70, sod 1970-75.                                                                    roa)-ltraeatt   abet   edsa   rt)a
Ceode birt  bate  aprth       nsd) - Annual lice birth. per tho%o.sod Of aid-                 apmerstag. oftota  aut   opaiati_, seed 15 Years sa  ovr.
yearpo~.hton;19U, 1970o, sod 197 data.
Cr.d. b        th-wA)- A-1oa deatho per th-a.sd of aii-year                   COMARWP0
-j1.ton; 1950, 1970, and 1977( dat.                                                  F           Cre  9   th-sand popdaitioe) - Poaseeeger Das oes,       rbse. actor e
Gro.,  eprodo tl,ste - Aveeg  -oue  of da-ghter  a  oao  il  bear0 settg PlEss tha  eigt persnos;  ulodo. s  itsoee, hearse  sad ellitary
1, her noml  orducti   peio  if oh   oereoa  raa  ege-ehil
opovi fic fertilJity rate.  iooely fio-y-a  .ceeg-o cdiog in 1960,                     Rai  nolea(s  husd DPolti)-  lltye  of ree                           fe.fo  radio
1970, sod 1975.                                                                          hrooAea.t to goorW pbM lie pe   ~           5Of poplation; .oolde. OOlbee,sd
Peaiy  Piooho  -  coenore.Aoo,al  tho,so.    Aoonlouero                           recivrs i.  o..tries and 1. years she. -g.gtrtetion of radio sets  a  10
Icetr   f bith-contro  deioro uder   si Ir fI naio fat                              effect; data fro  rOont year. -y oot he -osp blahie .10   -At   -te,rle
p10.0img progco.                                                                          oboliehd Iios-ilg.
partly Plniog -2 Uaer  Ipren   f mrido o    Poroctag oM f earned                          TV ReeMer  (Lrts.ad   ooab -                      -treIerro  for bro.dtoat to g ...rel
sor Mfoid-bsigar(5-4    er)00o bir.Mb - 1oto  d-vi-s                                  .lopethaedpjaato;50,    -].a                     -.e.d TV'rnerr  io oOuntrirs
to allmrie-  oe  io ese  age grop.                                                    sad ia yease-        rbtaiao             ..totseo -10 effat.
P001 diii iOflbfSIiO                                          isessqer Cirnulatios  (pe-r thosaaad IerLation) - Shoes tan .verge oir-ultioo
FOOD___AND   ____                                                                             o   dail   eoeel Fatrest  -.0eepeir-, defined a.apriodi-a  pIbli-etioe
Ind.. of Food prdooP., Capit  (19-b9-71-100) - Indvo of per capita                          deoted prerly 64reerdieg general sees.  it is  -oaid .red to he "daily'
on,ulIproductionI fal  oo  c ditivc.. Pr-d-cti-n e-Id.. see  sod                       if it appears  t lou.t foa  tis. a sek.
fee  so  i  oscaendr yarbass.CO~ite,  ove  pisey  ood            Coft  Ao.I Atteod Eno              Capita pee Year - Roed o- the oute  of tick t.
-g.ccucacac  insted of  0g0) ohich ace rdiblr sod ...etaio  otrit.te                   oddco   h   er   omdn   diso.  to dole-ko  lossoo and sbile
)o.coffe  sd te_ a_  _oloded).  Aggesste pe-du-tion of each  -o,ry                    at
io base.d on ,,stio..al  -crege produer prior sighto.
Pee cpi ta  "PDoY ofc2     rio pron   f ruiee)-Colopoted fros                        L".0  POEt       -
-orgy e     -I-,alo  ofc1foda      -ple       ilable 10 outrY per capita             TO       .rFO- t.=                - ktoaoaleaIly active perons, i.cldobig ared
per do  A holblaeouple   oern  daetic_prodiotion, ceporte Is.e.                              so- d In0w  07   h t ea dlodiq, uss s  stdotsit, ete. Deflitloo-
eZopoto, adl dehoe, ho. cto.  Mot oupplie  enolode sobasa feed, teed.,                 ho vaius -stries are ao  ,oposeble.
qustlt,e, adiofood proco...liog, sod 1...et In distriboti... Require-                                     F.y~yp9) - IP.. labor f-r  a. peoso-tog. of tota1l ahoborse
Ietore  tietd by rAo b-od 00 ph-oIoigi-aI  -rdo for ooeral                    6g4 ., .iet) - Labor fors 1. farie.-. fo-raey, h-ting sad
acioy sd helh conold-rig enir carot.1 teapert-ro  body  -vghtl,                     fishing a. peoes;.toe  of total labor ffte..
Ztcoodoe   dhotrtAl-uiO   -f populat; 0, and silooiog Ii perc-t for                  Ti'9t ry.jpyreet) - lbor f-rv  i.0 aiis,   -ontrstios,  eo,.ft.ctri.g sod
"Iot, It boicoetold 1-1e.                                                                             ea, t   ter oad gao..    prOtage of total lebo  f-ro.
er -apita  socl    -f rt-i  ~K          p-r doy)             - cti   ot-otof per       poytioipatloo  bate (nerost) -total  ado sadfem1  - Partl.ipatiso Or
caSt   e   upY offod per day. Net apply of fsod ia deii-d a.ativity rate, see  oMMted  a  total, oal.  s                             rod  ale laor fIIIe a. per
"Pbt,o.   "epp,oot foe  _b cotrir_  _otblished by USDA provide for a                    -etago  of total, eae and f.-l. poplatios If sli sees  -epootiooy;
sloiseo  a--ooo   i it gr-n  of total prot.io per dy sod 2t grse  Of                   1960, 1972, sod 197  data.  These ar  1(0'   W atie;patioa r-te. refletieg
e-io  sod puoc proct-, ofoib10 gre.a  ohold be soisa  proteio.                          ge-ce. .t_utuc  of the  poplatio, sa  lone time tread.  A f-o sati-tes
Thes- trad  oelrts t              hoedf75gaa   f total protein sd                       aefro  ootio-.   oac.
27grie  of oioaiprotlon   cooergrfor gthe sorld, pcopoaed by PAO                      W.      ';7:oyRi  -  Ratio of population sod.  15 sod 65 sod ove r to
io ti  Titri World food S.r.oY.                                                        tbF eb I~f,Ii  sc group of 15-64 year..
forosphe   oooloounlof-o  an-Ia  ed pulsc - Proteio sopply Of food
hid1001) itotaly  2at  (_c   r tooad)  I- 0000  death, per thousad               Peosaoo   rvt    o-(ohi   ahadko)- R-viv-d hi riobeot
is  ge oro   . p rar--, to childre  10 thi~ , ago-rp; for soot dvel-                    5  eO' lhet2   eoet   ooet20prst,      poret0pron
Opi-g  --ctii ... abt  d-rloed fros life t.bic-                                           of hosoasld..
PULATS                                                                                    POVKWf TARGV  I7
Lifr E.pcctany at Sooth lyesr...    A-erto  nae-  of year  of life                        letioatd Ahoolo_to  Povrty I  acoa        t evl )it_  !e niuita  - ache  sod rurl 
e-eiOioa   it    6    1970,ou  1977. dab                                                  Absolote po.. rt  inea  leve  L. to   aa             e    Ieoo shieh a   .aioisl
of-, ZStortity  Otto (per itoicosod) _Aoool  ratit of iost. under ..e                     ntutritionally odeqt.at  diet pl- . sosetia1 00-food requirsssetc is o. ot
yea   f ag  err tih-osd lice hittl,.                                                       ff-oedble.
hoorts_Roarlt                                                                                               r       ,.= tolfe Wotr' r (prec.. I of p:p,latr)  -itotal. urbso  sod roca  -  Estiasted RellativM Mvet  -100w  LeeM PdprOot)-ah..0ro
Fte-1rspl   iour   rae    ufacroa.t-r  -e uate-td tot                             personal i00. of the  -osotry. Uobe, leve  I. derived froo  the rura  ieeel
aootaaoo    000c  ouc"t a,  ha~ttfro  p-oteted  orehols's, spring.,                   oitb adjustaet fur highee cot of lrisg i. urhenara.
andsantar  welo  nopercetge- of their r-opectie ppalati-o. i                     Estimated Poplat'Io, Bob   Ate.,ote  Povrt  boa1-   lee          1oon)          a   sad
a    haAroapublic f-onti  or otshdpoot 1ocot.d not ecre than                     ral-Prot of  oulto   (abo  so   oaisrar    hooepo
1.  Messr- fro .aho-e eoy ivcnierda   eigwt    reasonble
---    iba ~hloh-.  Lo ru-lar1     r       ..ncoal   _ -crs aud ieply
tint thy h--urif.eo   -ser  of tic bou-hild do not h.00 to spend a-olsiO  adSocial Doto  Dlioisio
duop-op-rti-te  part If tie dsp is f.tohiog the  .o.y otsr ...ed.                                                           ac_nnlo Analysi. sod Projections iear.ent
Augmot 197



ANNEX I
30m oCSUYEoinr 2A                          Page  4  of  5
03 PU CII!L 1  1977:  S 150
f/                                                                         e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
ounua uazxou     0CM 1011 - lt1977/75                                                         mr u1 . castat aricaee
gm .J          '/ 160/81.19/5                                                    I E/1n/7           1970/71-1974/77
Gw  at Markat Incas             101.47      100.0                                                 3.9                 3.                 3.2
Gross Dmastic Inteast            21.65       21.3
Groo  Istieol Saving             22.77       22.4
Current acourt 6ULaco  V/         1.06        1.0
l*sece balance   4/             - 0.31      - 0.3
omm. 10  na= AMn PtWz=!  TM 1971
!it!Lu    L(at  cter cost)           l                       l.A. Par Worker
U.ir    *                         lI. S                     in.      of flational A-ermsc
Agriculture                       24.5           4.6               130.0     72.1            1U5             64
Industry                         11.5            22.3               20.2    11.2             582             1"
5.rvic"                           18.3           31.1              1         17 5              2
botaisaverage                     52.6          100.0              160.4   100.0             292             100
e1ral Goyrm_at                                              Central GO_o t
VO-711        197/75-X7                                                   17717   If74 1i75-1-7
Carrat lecolpu                   166.42         18.9          1.2                             95.62         11.0           10.5
Current  _eadituree             157.29         15.1           85                              752           10.9           la
Currant surplusiDaticit            7.13          0.8           1.6                             0.35         s.s.            0.6
Captal 3uedturaa  fi             62.58           7.2           7.0                            43.31          5.0            5.0
Rntersal Asata     (not) A/        9.82          1.1           1.6                             9.82          1       .1    3.6
NYO . 1T  4 AND                    1970/71    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    19         197/73 Z    .2tZc_E7er 1977     X      r 197d
(Le  1illi. oetatondiAg at en  of period)
Nowe  ead Quasi lmqe,                121.4      196.4      220.3      254.7      306.9      365.1          334.6            395.8
5     Credit to Goer_t (met)          52.6       67.3       95.3      101.1      110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
o   Credit to Comercial Sector        64.6      107.0      12U6.7     153.9      1*5.1      210.0          195.3            223.5
(rcanr_tape or  1&    mers)                              Jaser- 1976       jamasry 1979
Ke_ sAd Quasi  nay as S of CW  30.1              33.5       31.5       34.5       38.8        41.9
Uhaleal. Prits aIdez
(1970/71 * 100)                   100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6      1U5.          1S4.5             lS4.6
Annual percaenag  chogo  La:
Vboleele Pric  Iadex                   7.7       20.2       25.2      - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2               0.1
seak Credit to Goereenot (mt)         10.8       12.3        9.2        8.1        9.0        17.7         13.4              U.9
seak Credit to Comrcial sector        19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5       20.3        13.5         16.6              14.4
i/ ia per capita 0W  *atiatc is at nrnot prices, calculated by the covrcioo technique  ood In the  arld Atlas.
All other ceeereLoaa to dollars in this table are at the boraa exchange rate prevailia dari" Je period cowered.
t/ Quick  atl taa.
ci Cputed from tred lie of   c at factor cost s*rias. including  me obeerwariom befor  first year ae oe
obseration after lest year of listed period.
d/ world seek estiuts; ntc e_esrily coesiotent with official national Ancoet statistics.
./ Treasfers between Centre and stats have been netted out.
f/ 411 Loans a* advwae. to third parties bae beea netted out.
I/  interal grants and lois, lls principal rspynnts, as recordd In the Central budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                   iZRCNANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76   1977178)
(UsS million)                                                        US$ Mla.      ..%
Exports of Goods                  4,672      5,753        6,276       6,800                Eagineering Goods              610          11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928        -7,237       -8,400               Tea                            417           7
Trade Balance                    -1,777      - 175        - 961       -1,600               Game                            377          7
NFS (net)                           310        360          650          700               Clothing                       331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                 -1.467        185        - 311          900                       Products               278          5
i/                                                              Jute Manufactures               267          5
interest Payments (net)           - 216      - 180           50          -                 Iron Ore                       265          5
Other Factor Payments (net)           -         -            -           -                 Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers  J/                   470        730        1,400       1,300                Sugar                          244          4
Others                       2,530         45
balance on Current Account       -1.213        735        1.039         400
Total                        5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341      1,953        1,628       1,805               EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1978 h
Amortization                   - 531      - 560        - 645       - 725                                                     USS billion
Transactions with IMF               242      - 337        - 330       - 158               Outstanding and Disbursed                  14.8
All Other Items                    - 45      - 216          384         205                Undisbureed                               4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575        -2,076      -1,527                     Undisbursed                         19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)         2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                                 hl!l
Met Reserves (end year)  kl       1,365      3,276        5,668       7,350               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977/78            15.0  percent
luel and Related Materials                                                                 IbRD/IDA LENDING  DECEM3ER 31. 1978
Imports                           1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                      US$ million
of which: Petroleum             1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                  iB.MA
Exports                              43         37           33        0.a.               Outstandi..g ...d Disbursed         613          3,864
of which: Petroleum                22         21           18 ni.                       Undisbursed                         615         1,992
Outatanding, including                  3/
Undisbursed              1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to aid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Re 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$O.137376
After end-June 1972                   :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978           :   US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/ Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover *al investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
ji Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Exclude* net use of IMF credit.
L/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
%I Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of November 30, 1979)
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
57 Credits fully disbursed                                    3,378.6
294-IN     1972   India    Bihar Agricultural
Markets                --         14.0     .06
312-IN     1972   India    Population                --         21.0    1.25
342-IN     1972   India    Education                 --         12.0    5.98
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                    --         25.0    8.46
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    4.65
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --           55.0    9.24
440-IN     1973   India    Bihar Agricultural
Credit                 --        32.0    3.64
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --        13.0    8.11
481-IN     1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --           50.0      .96
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0         --      24.02
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy           --         30.0   21.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD       --         83.0   38.54
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer         --         91.0    3.34
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy           --         27.7   17.97
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --           16.4    7.36
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas       --         35.0   13.59
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0      --      16.39
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI           95.6       --       5.51
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --        45.0   12.35
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   14.76
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    8.72
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   19.69
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --        40.0   25.73
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry       --        105.0   66.54
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --          150.0   89.07



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0     2.57
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    15.85
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    114.43
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0        --      25.99
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0               24.22
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --     23.83
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --      11.72
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   29.57
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development                       20.0   17.42
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0  121.59
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   16.91
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0    2.38
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --     14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.73
715-IN     1977   India    ARDC II                    --        200.0   37.58
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaiyar
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.75
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.34
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --     79.45
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   53.64
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   12.09
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   52.36
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       --     43.09
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   97.22
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   66.74
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Pa2e 3 of 17
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0      --      25.00
1549-IN     1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0      --      94.37
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --          117.6  108.14
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power       --        200.0  179.25
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.99
808-IN     1978   India    Guajarat Irrigation        --        85.0   80.39
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.50
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II         --         16.0   15.99
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0         --      70.39
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy            --        150.0  146.49
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --       196.0  196.00
843-IN     1979   India    Jaryana Irrigation        --        111.0   94.35
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --       190.0  174.51
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --        38.0   36.36
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --        27.0   27.00
862-IN*    1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   25.00
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                      --         30.0   27.07
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0      __      50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --       200.0  200.00
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation         --        129.0  127.17
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --        48.0   48.00
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --       175.0  175.00
925-IN*    1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --        23.0   23.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN*    1979   India    ARDC III                   --        250.0  250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India    Thal Fertilizer           250.0       --    250.00
954-IN*    1979   India    Second Maharashtra
Irrigation                       210.0  210.00
Total                                  2,528.8   7,444.8
of which has been repaid               969.8       54.8
Total now outstanding                  1,559.0   7,390.0
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   112.2        21.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA         1,537.4   7,390.0
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          622.4   2,629.3
*   Not yet effective.
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATENENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of November 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                         Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9       -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4       -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2       -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7       0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8       1.4       13.2
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0       0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0       0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1       3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                             6.6        -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0        1.4       5.2
TOTAL                               53.6       10.4       64.0
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                              17.0         -        17.0
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            24.5        8.0       32.5
Undisbursed                          4.5        0.6        5.1



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$538.3 million in FY79 or 39% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,252 mil-
lion as of November 30, 1979, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers.  The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date:  October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date:  April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: February 29, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The Sindri project has also been commissioned and commercial produc-
tion is expected shortly. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a
result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in comple-
tion of engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project prep-
aration and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-
projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
muade to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.  Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 37
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Cormand Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January_13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date:  August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drair,ige, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Paee 13 of 17
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date:  June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new procesbing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Preject; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover rine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Pa    16fi nf 17
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
P^2 17 of 17
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which would cover about 140 rural electrification schemes. There are now
thirteen State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared
with six at the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due
principally to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures
to international competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the
full amount of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 would provide con-
tinued support to the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program,
and help finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs,
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an
early stage of implementation, and preparation of bid specifications is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
INDIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
GOI Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and
the Ministries of Health and Family Welfare of
Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
the first mission to consider the project
October 1, 1978; October 16, 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 1, 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 20, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
May 1980
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The States to make appropriate allocation of funds
to maintain primary health centers and sub-centers,
and for operations and maintenance of project vehicles
(paras 52 and 54);
(b) The States to undertake mid-term review of the
Project's program including the new data collection
system, and provide for IDA(s review by March 31,
1983 (para 59); and
(c)  The State to obtain IDA's prior approval of the schemes
expected to cost over US$50,000 under the Innovative
Activities, as a condition of disbursement against
those schemes (para 61).






IBRD 14519R
t _USSR                7 )       U S S                                     o R
INDIA
, 'r   '     \                                                        POPULATION  PROJECT fl
DEMOCRATIC  REPUBL C                                                                                                      Prolect areas- Population Project II
OF  AFGHAN STAN                                         Aeproxnmee                                                 Pro ject areas-Populcatio, Project I
2         .       hoe iolconoog  9 l  o/'                                        ioD strict headquarters ce qe       or
Uresagor          ~~~V 0. thr d                                                         h rOhd-I.1d
>   ,                    2                                            3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State caxpitals
It                    l JAMMU & KASHMIR                                                             N.oreci capitals
F  N                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D,,tri,t budre
Stlte and Union Territory boundaries
*._-  HIMACHA                                                             nterLot,onai bondaries
PRADESH                                                                      bunare
C'                       ~~~~~CH NA
t.f                               4 ~ ~~~~~~~~ )  rSemis  .    
3o.              PAKISTAN                    /   CPUNJaBdrhT     S
,rSfw                                   r               l                                                             ,rb v' ,     ,
` HARYANA&                                                                                                .-fARUNACHALr,O
')                                                                                                   4- _,-.i,  4*  PRADESH  Tr
Nr Di/,irNELHI                                                                                   r -L  r-  G)tenagar     r
__1- _   N E P AL              -     <x /             - }--
.UTTAR  PRADESH                                             r.r,  ngt.oh0t  BHUTAN    L--
lt_e'X v i % o7  \                  )                        5 /. >'/ > ga 1@ o53NAGALAt
(    Mba          9eeoe(                                            0Shilong  (<    
j   GUJARAT        I>                     BoAA.                                                   WEST                     \      \ M120RAM
I~~~~~~,>  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                 B~~~~~AIURM
HGandhinagar                 MADHYA          PRADESH                                Calcut
S p ... -4 ~~~ > , .~~ ORlSSA 0, tA ~~B u R M A
Bombay                       r              .
,              Sr                            gI           ~~ ~ ~~~~~s)  J/  .S       "
-     Hycerabod
ANDHRA                                      goy    o f    B    n g  a
PRADESH                                            h       f     B          a
A r a bi an n
-~~~~ OtJ KARNATAKA  ,<- -)   g   (
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_____                                                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~tANDOAMAN
k  Barga
AND
TAMIL  NADU                                                            iNCOV At
10'                    ;                                                                                                                                    - .SLANDS
-  TrrABdrr ,hK-                               XICLOMETERS U         200         400         600         eoo
T   S R |   \        MILESO         I OD     260       30       46        0 
'  "       '   \ ~~LANKA                   -          _,  rroeeeerreeee,erreno  er_ corror   sowe
SR~ ~ ~~~~~~~o r iesO U ee o 'rre,l-s  r,.rrrro e .de
AN~ ~ ~~~~~rrsissoe rte r,Orprrp.o esrO r 'rsnn or
0I,re,oedrelpI~!pelrr0 m eorr !Oerdrrrr
9ye



