TO CUMYWj    CREDIT NUMBER fS    IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Population Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 i           , 1980


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         A/                 , 1980, between
INDIA acting by its President (hereinafter called India) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) India has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Project will be carried out partly by the State of
Andhra Pradesh (hereinafter called Andhra) and partly by the State
of Uttar Pradesh (hereinafter called U.P.) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Andhra and U.P. the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Burrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association, Andhra
and U.P.;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the State of Andhra Pradesh and the State of Uttar
Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) "the States" means Andhra and U.P.;
(c) "Project Area" means the area comprising primarily the
districts of Anantpur, Chittoor and Cuddapah in Andhra and the
districts of Azamgarh, Basti, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and
Varanasi in U.P.; and
(d) "Indian States" means all the states of India.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to forty-six million dollars ($46,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1990, and ending October 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Andhra and U.P. to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the States to perform such lbligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit,
excluding the amount allocated to Category (3) (a) set forth in
the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, available to Andhra and
U.P. in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for
development assistance to Indian States.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obli-
gation on the part of either of the States under the Project
Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that either of the States will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower
and the State concerned.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Andhra and U. P., and is
legally binding upon each of the States in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.02. The date          /4   /#V           is hereby
specified for the purposes o    Se ion Y2.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 5.03. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years
after the'date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary in the Department of
Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authoriz2d, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-6-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By  /V
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  A//    A   'L      ~     (<      IAAA
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 17,000,000         48%
(2) Furniture, equip-            5,400,000         48%
ment, -iaterials
and vehicles
(3) Staff salaries:                                48%
(a) for Borrower's            300,000
monitoring and
evaluation
systems
(b) for States staff         8,700,000
(4) Operation and main-         10,600,000         48%
tenance including
studies and study
tours
(5) Innovative activities        1,000,000         66%
costs
(6) Unallocated                  3,000,000
TOTAL        46,000,000


﻿-8-
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amouut of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be made in respect
of Categories 1 through 4 on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1979; and
(b) payments for expenditures under Category (5) above in
respect of any population sub-project related to innovative
activities and estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more
unless: (i) the Association shall have approved such sub-project;
and (ii) the purpose and amount of the withdrawal requested accord
with the terms of the proposal in respect of such sub-project
approved by the Association, as such terms may be amended from
time to time.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿-9-
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way res-
tricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designec' to assist the Borrower in the further
development and implementation of its voluntary family welfare
program in the Project Area, and consists oi the following Parts:
Part A:
In Andhra, the construction furnishing and equipping of about
430 Sub-centers to provide health services in rural areas,
about 40 Primary Health Centers, about five hostels for training
multipurpose workers and of additional facilities in various
existing hospitals and health centers.
Part B:
In U.P., the construction, furnishing and equipping of about
1,560 Sub-centers to provide health services in rural areas,
about 80 Primary Health Centers, two urban maternity homes,
training facilities for Lucknow Population Center and of addi-
tional facilities in various existing hospitals and health
centers.
Part C:
The provision of additional staff, medical supplies, vehicles
and maintenance facilities for delivery of services and program
management.
Part D:
The provision of incremental costs for training, including
stipends.
Part E:
The provision of vehicles, equipment and materials for
information, education and communication activities.


﻿- 11 -
Part F:
The strengthening of the monitoring and evaluation systems of
the Borrower and the States, and the carrying out of operations
research and innovative activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  _..       day of  V
FOR SECRETARY


