OFFICLA-f    CREDIT  NUMBER     /  IN
Project Agreement
(Second Population Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated                              , 1980


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       On"I                 , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH, acting by its
Governor (hereinafter called Andhra) and the STATE OF UTTAR
PRADESH, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called U.P.).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-six million dollars ($46,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Andhra and U.P. agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are herein-
after set forth; and
WHEREAS Andhra and U.P., in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have each agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
as so defined have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Andhra and U.P. shall carry out their respec-
tive Parts of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, each with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
family planning, public health, technical and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each of the States undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any i,ndemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the State con-
cerned to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
States shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to them by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for their respective Parts of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the States shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for
its Part of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The States: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of their respective
Parts of the Project (including the cost and the benefits to be
derived therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to them, and to
disclose the use thereof in those Parts of the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in those Parts of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the said Parts
of the Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from such Parts of the Project, the expenditures of the
proceeds of the Credits so made available to them and the goods
and services financed out of such proceedsc
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-3-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the States shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of their respective Parts of the Project, the
cost thereof and the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom,
the performance by the Association and the States of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) The States shall each at the request
of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) The States shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by any of them of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. The States shall each ensure that Primary
Health Sub-centers under the Project will be sited within the
inhabited area of the village where they are located.
Section 2.07. The States shall each furnish to the Associa-
tion for its information and comments, not later than June 30,
1980, or such other date as may be agreed between the Association
and the State concerned, the preliminary-type designs for all
facilities to be constructed under the Project.
Section 2.08. The States shall each make appropriate alloca-
tions of funds and facilities for:
(a) the maintenance of all the buildings used for Primary
Health Centers and Sub-centers in the Project Area;
(b) the operation and maintenance, on a uniform basis, of
all the vehicles used for health and family welfare purposes in
the Project Area.
Section 2.09. The States shall each undertake a mid-term
review of the progress of the Project activities in the respective
areas including the health and family welfare data collection


﻿-4-
systems under the Project and shall make available not later than
March 31, 1983 the results of such review to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Each of the States shall cause each of its
various departments or agencies responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project to maintain separate records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, or any part thereof.
Section 3.02. The States shall each: (i) have its separate
accounts in respect of its Part of the Project for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than nine months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning said separate account
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the States thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or


﻿-5-
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Andhra:
The Chief Secretary to the
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Hyderabad
Andhra Pradesh


﻿-6-
Cable address:
CHIEF SECRETARY ANDHRA
Hyderabad, India
For Uttar Pradesh:
The Chief Secretary to the
Government of Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow
Uttar Pradesh
Cable address:
CHIEF SECRETARY U.P.
Lucknow, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of each of the States may be taken or
executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons
as the said Chief Secretary shall designate in writing, and each
of the States shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one .nstrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 7 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   (U                          I
a4cAv    Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Byieen                                       v
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3, civil works,
furniture, equipment, vehicles and materials shall be procured
through the competitive bidding procedures of the State concerned,
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Civil works not exceeding 30% of the civil works included
under the Project may be carried out departmentally under the
supervision of Project construction units.
3.   Items of furniture, equipment, vehicles and materials esti-
mated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less, may be procured through
normal trade channels.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   M        day of
190 .
FOR SECRETARY


