MNI   1I(1' ; (uoi
Domum ,                          . 
D     ;tT  ,T,e  .N1, .  LII)  UN IJ!     'I'YF      (I 
The Worli         1)1 AIlh I   .  X:, y b:; .X I'\-u'  .'  :u'!1
FOR OMFJCJAL UJL UvNL-r
Report No. 10026
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2029-UNI)
OCTOBER 25, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its couitents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
(US$1 = N7.6)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA                 Accelerated Development Area Project(s)
APMEU               Agricultural Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
ATAP                Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
ADP                 Agricultural Development Project
ADPLA               Agricultural Development Project Liaison Agency
DFRRI               Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure
FARA                Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency
FASU                Federal Agricultural Support Unit
FACU                Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FDRD                Federal Department of Rural Development
FGN                 Federal Government of Nigeria
FOS                 Federal Office of Statistics
FRADYS              Field Recod for Agricultural Details, Yields and Stands
LPU                 Livestock Project Unit
MEU                 Monitoring and Evaluating Unit
MSADP               Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
NACB                Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NGB                 Nigerian Grains Board
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PY                  Project Year
SAP                 Structural Adjustment Program
SG                  State Goverment(s)
RAIDS               Rural Agro-Industrial Development Section
(sometimes referred to as "Schemes")



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O0fice of DirectOqwtal
OpertknM EVAla MtIO
October 25, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Agricultural Technical Assistance Proiect (Loan 2029-UNI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report er.titled "Project
Completion Report on Nigeria - Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Loan
2029-UNI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2029-UNI)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .................... ....... * ........
EVALUATION SJUMMARY  ...................1*  *.*.V....**  iii
PARTI:        PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .......   1
1.            Project Identity   ...        ..     .    ................. . e           1
2.            Background
3.            Project Objectives and Description  ........................  1
Project Objectives    ...................  .............  1
1Project Description   . . e .    ...                                  2
4.            Project Designand Organization  .......................  3
5.            Project Implementation ..................                                 4
6.            Project Results         .......................e.                         6
7.            Sustainability ...................                                        7
8.            Bank's Performance  ......... ...... ............. .                      8
9.            Borrower's Performance  ....................  .........  8
10.           Project Relationships ....... ...............               .             9
11.            Consulting Services ................                                     9
12.           Project Documentation and Data  .............. .                          9
PART H: BORROWER'S COMMENTS .10
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFDORMATION .......14
1.            Related Bank Lans and/or Credits .         ......................   14
2.            Project Timetable  ................................   16
3.            Loan Disbursements and Follow-on Project  .................  17
4.            Project Implementation  ....... .......................   18
5.            Project Costs and Financing  ...........................   18
6.            Status of Covenants    .......... ........  .                            20
7.            Use of Bank Resources .................  22
MAP IBRD 19816R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECTC PLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
AGRICULT1URAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2029 - UNI)
PREFACE
Tlhis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project in Nigeria, for which Loan 2029-UNI in the amount of US$47 million was
approved on June 30, 1981. The loan was closed on December, 1989, three years behind
schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on January 9, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the FAO/IIBRD Cooperative Program on behalf of
the Agriculture Operations Division, Africa Country Department IV (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based on a field completion mission conducted in
March-April 1990 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan, and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPQRT
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2029 - UNI)
EVALUATION SUMI,:ARY
Q ive
1.           The main objective of ATAP was to create the Federal level institutions
needed to help implement the Nigerian Food Production Plan. The 19-0 Plan's goals was to
increase food (basically cereal and root crops) production by 3.5% annually compared with an
existing rate of about 1 %. The means of doing so was to replicate throughout Nigeria the
type of agricultural development projects (ADPs) that had been promoted and supported by
the Federal Government (FGN) and Bank since 1975. The ADPs contained both rural
infrastructure and agricultural development components. They were generally popular with
rural communities and appeared to be generating production increases. The Plan called for a
statewide ADP to be established in each state. To help State Governments (SG) plan, set up
and run new ADPs as well as the nine ongoing ADPs, most of which were enclave
operations, it was decided that a new agency, the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
(FACU), should be established and an existing agency, the agricultural Project Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) be strengthened to focus on the evaluat-! of ADP activities.
Both units were to be responsible to the Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD)
and afforded freedom from many civil service procedures in order to ensure their efficiency.
Loan 2029-UNI for US$47 M (out of US$120.1 M of total project costs) was made to support
the two agencies for five years and provide technical assistance for other FGN agricultural
agencies.
Implementation Experience
2.           FACU began operations in March 1981, a month ahead of loan approval, by
starting to prepare ADPs of an interim Type-Accelerated Development Area projects (ADA) -
that were to be financed by FGN and SG until full-fledged ADPs could be prepared and Bank
financing arranged for them. Six ADPs were prepared by the end of 1981 and tLree were
launched. In March 1982, the fall in oil prices forced Government to abandon the ADA
program and the overall pace of Food Plan implementation was slowed considerably. By June
1983 FACU has prepared ADPs for nine states; eight of these were financed under a single
Bank loan in 1986. A Bank loan and an IDA credit in 1989 funded another eight FACU-
prepared ADPs with which all 21 states of the Federation had ADPs operating or in the
preliminary start-up phase. The strengthening of APMEU with expert staff and facilities took
place but by 1984 it was clear that APMEU had serious problems in carrying out its
evaluation responsibilities; principally an inability to cope with the flow of data generated by
ADPs under an over ambitious program of field surveys. These problems persisted until



- iv -
project closure. Of three F(,N agencies expected to use ATAP- funds for technical assistance,
only the Livestock Project Unit did so. With Bank agreement FDRD was authorized to utilize
the balance of the funds to conduct a number of useful studies relating both to the ADP
program and the agricultural sector in general. The loan was extended by three years to
December 31,1989 to reflect the slower pace of ADP creation and lower than anticipated
expenditures and loan disbursements.
Results
3.           ATAP achieved its objective of establishing FACU and strengthening APMEU
and thus of helping implement the. Food Plan. At project closure all 21 states had to varying
degrees of extent and efficiency adaptive research programs; extension and farm input supply
services, an.d completed or ongoing rural infrastructure development programs. Food
production has grown and the status of food supplies in the last two years, 1988 and 1989,
indicates that the objective of self-sufficiency in basic foodstuffs may have been achieved or is
close to achievement. APMEU failed to achieve its objective of entablishing an effective
evaluation system and one consequence is that the relative influence on the growth in food
production in recent years of various contributory factors cannot be distinguished. Such
factors include price incentives (a Structural Adjustment Program in 1986 radically improved
the terms of trade for agriculture); weather; use of improve technology; extension services;
and expansion of cropped area. Another project failure was the inability of FACU's agro-
industrial section to achieve its objectives. Performance was so poor that the Bank ceased
financing this component in 1987.
Sustginability
4.           The basic rationale for FACU and APMEU still exists and should continue for
some years. In recognition of this they are being supported by the Bank under the Third-
Multi-State ADP, Credit 2035-UNI, and this will continue to end 1994. However APMEU
has very serious staffing and technical problems and is still unable to carry out the critical
evaluation functions set for it at appraisal. Urgent steps are needed to resolve these issues.
Until this is done the future utility of APMEU remains in question. FACU also has staffing
problems and is losing many of its professional staff because of FDRD's policy or reducing
expatriate staff numbers and FACU's inability to provided adequate incentives to hire and
retain qualified Nigerian personnel other than civil servants It also has no clear cut work
program or recruitment plan. In the past a merger of the two institutions has been mooted on
the grounds of cost effectiveness and efficiency. The Bank has tended to object to merger on
the grounds that the impact evaluation function (APMEU's responsibility) should be
completely independent of that of project implementation (FACU and the ADPs). It seems
probable however that FACU's need of reliable data and its relatively clear and more
influential relationships with ADP managements, would make it, appropriately supported by
merged APMEU specialists, an effective agent for putting in place and helping maintain a
sound system of generating and collecting reliable data and its subsequent analysis if it is
believed that a merged APMEU/FACU would not be sufficiently impartial to conduct impact
evaluation work. There are a variety of options open to the Bank and FGN. One is to
contract th.is work out to universities. They could undertake impact studies and provide a
check on the quality of data collection. Merger of APMEU and FACU appears logical and
would best take place when FACU moves to Federal Headquarters at Abuja; a move that will
be financed under Credit 2035-UNI. Preconditions, however, should be firm decisions on the



vX
routine survey work to be undertaken and methods of resolviiig the staffing problem of both
units.
5.           In retrospect it is clear that conditions for the success of the Food Plan and
ATAP did not exist at the time of appraisal and that the relative success of the project was
due to changes in economic policies which were adopted subsequently by the Government.
Both were launched at a time when macro-economic policy, particularly an overvalued Naira,
was strongly adverse to agriculture and available new agricultural technologies, with notable
exceptions, were generally unattractive to most farmers despite bans on food imports which
were introduced to improve farmers' incentives but generally were ineffective. Fortunately,
the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in 1986 removed what the SAR called 'macro-
economic hindrances'. It is likely that SAP because of its positive impact on prices of
agricultural products has been a major, if not the major, reason for the increases in food
production in recent years.
6.           Another lesson concerns APMEU. Successfully installing the sophisticated
monitoring and evaluation system described in the SAR required large numbers of well
trained and motivated staff not only in APMEU but in each of the ADPs. Some concept of
the potential difficulties should have been clear from APMEU's earlier failure to develop an
effective system for the enclave ADPs on which it had been embarked since 1975. A more
practical approach would probably have emerged by entrusting system design to an overseas
agency engaged in ongoing and successful monitoring and evaluation programs elsewhere.
Continuing linkage with such an agency would have resolved many of APMEU's subsequent
difficulties - technical and staff recruitment and training in particular.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGfICULTURAL TECBIINAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2029-UNI)
PART 1: PROJCT ,EYE    FRQI DAK'S 3PECIM
1.    Eroge  Identity
Name                  Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
Loan Number           2029-UNI
RVP Unit              Africa Region
Country               Nigeria
Sector                Agriculture and Rural Development
2.    Background
2.1   In 1979 Nigeria's agriculture sector was stagnating. Because of an overvalued Naira
and a population growth rate of over 3% annually, food imports were increasing rapidly. The
Federal (FGN) and State Governments (SG) were concerned by increasing food imports and
the difficulty of ensuring that the rural population shared in the growth of the economy fueled
by oil exports. Concurrendy, it appeared that the Agricultural Development Projects (ADP),
promoted by FGN and assisted with Bank loans, were popular with farmers and generated
increases in food production.l/ The ADPs package included constructing feeder roads and
water supplies, supplying fertilizer, seeds and other inputs, conducting adaptive research, and
providing agricultural extension services.
2.2   In April 1980 FGN published a Food Production Plan (the Food P!an) that aimed to
raise food crop production by a minimum of 3.5% annually in the period 1980-85 and put the
country on a course towards food self-sufficiency. Expansion of the area under the ADPs was
chosen as the means of generating 80% of the incremental production sought, and the Food
Plan called for an ADP to be set-up in each state. Since ADPs helped small farmers, and
two-thirds of the labor force was engaged in agriculture, implementing the Food Plan was
expected to improve the incomes and living standards of very large numbers of the rural
population.
3.    Poject Objectives and Description
3.1    ProQj Objectives: The prime objective of ATAP was to assist implementation of the
Food Plan. The increase in the number of states (from 4 in 1967 to 19 in 1976) led to the
limited number of agricultural administrators and technicians being thinly spread. FGN
consequently decided that its Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD) had to be
strengthened to help the states develop the ADPs. FGN concluded that FDRD's existing
1/    When Loan 2029-UNI wa approved, nine ADPS wore in opertion with Bank loans for tho fulst three
Approved in 1974. Sao Paet 11, Table 1.



-2-
Agricultural Project Monitoring Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU)2 should be
strengthened and foct;s on evaluation, and a new unit should be set up to -lan, prepare,
facilltate the start-up and supervise the implementation of ADPs. The new agency was
envisaged as consisting of four strategically-located Federal Agricultural Support Units
(FASU) and a small central Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU).
3.2    The major beneficiaries of Loan 2029-UNI were APMEU and FACU/FASU but
provision was also made to help other federal agencies involved in the overall food production
effort.
3.3   Project Description: The project provided for:
Strengthening and expansion of APMEU's evaluation and policy role,
including assistance 1o APMEU to provide methodological, analytical, training
and data processing support for monitoring and evaluation units within ADPs
and FASU. It involved reorganization of APMEU Administration and
Finance, Evaluation, and Data Processing Divisions.
Provision of technical assistance for evaluation, training, and data processing
functions and acquisition of a mini computer with the necessary software and
maintenance support.
Establishment of a Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) to
coordinate the work of FASU and monitor the progress of agricultural
development nationally. Establishment of four Federal Agricultural Support
Units (FASU) to p.epare ADP proposals, monitor the execution of ADPs,
process disbursemient of Federal grants to states for ADPs, provision of
technical support to ADPs in the areas of planning, agronomy and extension
training, monitoring and evaluation, rural infrastructure and agro-related
industrial development.
Provision of technical assistance and logistical support for FACU/FASU.
Provision of technical assistance to the Nigerian Grains Board (NGB) to
develop its marketing intelligence, storage, and regulatory functions; to the
Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank (NACB) to improve procedures
for disbursement and recovery of agricultural loans; to the Livestock Project
Unit (LPU) to assist in implementing the livestock components of ADPs and
to extend the livestock production and marketing activities begun under Loan
1091-UNI (Livestock Development Project); and to other institutions of vital
importance to the implementation of the Food Plan.
Provision of necessary infrastructure, buildings, vehicles and equipment.
2/     Currently entitled Agricultural Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) and subsequently referred
to as such in the PCR.



-3-
4.     Pro3ect lJ)ind Organization
4.1    The conceptual foundation for the project was clear. Its special features were the
granting to APMEU and FACU of a high level of autonomy in personnel and financial
procedures. A precedent for this was set when the forerunner of APMEU was established in
1975. At appraisal FGN accepted again that strict adherence to civil service procedures
would jeopardize the achievement of Food Plan objectives. The scale as.d scope of the project
were generally correct, but the evaluation task set for APMEU was unrealistic (see para 4.3).
4.2    The project was generally well prepared. Detailed terms of reference were contained
in the SAR for the two principal ATAP agencies, together with job descriptions for
professional staff and staffing schedules. The SAR and preparation documents paid particular
attention to APMEU and its program, describing the latter in detail. FACU/FASU
responsibilities were listed but described in less detail. The SAR left no doubt as to the roles
and responsibilities of project institutions.
4.3   In retrospect, a number of aspects of project design and organization resulted in
outcomes less favorable thwn planned. The coverage and intensity of the routine surveys
specified for APMEU were excessive and the work involved in their implemientation
underestimated. The concept that a team of 14 individual specialists, mostly expatriate, could
be reciuited, establish the system and hand it over to trained Nigerians within a three-year
period was unrealistic. Advice from an overseas agency, engaged successfully in similar
evaluation work, might have produced a more practical program, and continuing links with
such an agency would have provided superior in-service training arrangements for Nigerian
personnel, and a source of expatriate perso,inel and technical assistance. With hindsight, the
decision to support FDRD with two units - FACU and APMEU - seems also to have been a
mistake. Most FACU and ADP planning had to be done with a limited amount of reliable
data because of APMEU's problems. Had a single unit been responsible for all phases of the
ADP project cycle, it is probable that a more positive approach would have been made
towards resolving the evaluation problem. A sir-le unit also would have been more cost-
effective, but the appraisal mission appears to have wanted to maximize the objectivity and
independence of the evaluators. Little attempt was made to ascertain the extent to which
APMEU's work might duplicate that of other FGN/SG agencies2/, and the possible benefits
of cooperation with, for example, the Federal Office of Statistics (FOS), seems not to have
been examined. The SAR stated that FACU's rural agro-industrial development section
(RAIDS) would have the primary objective of helping the ADPs to tackle farm level crop
processing and storage problems. For most of the project, RAIDS functioned as an
independent unit of FDRD, worked from a different agenda, and concentrated more on the
needs of larger enterprises, and attempted to promote the local production of processing
equipment. It is not clear why the SAR should have presented the role of RAIDS so
differently from the concept held by FDRD.
4.4    A criticism of the SAR and the Food Plan is that both assumed that what the SAR
termed "macro-economic hindrances" could be overcome by greater expansion of available
3/     Supervision missions subsequently reviewed the situation, and concluded that FOS's Agricultual Sainple
Survey would need mijor reforns, before it could generate sufficiently adequate data for APMEU/ADP
purposes.



-4
agricultural technology. The experience of the ADPs is that this assessment was incorrect. A
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), launched in 1986, and the reinforcement of previous
restrictions on food imports, have subsequently created a favorable climate for the agriculture
sector.
5.    ProJect ipplementation
5. I   Loan 2029-UNI was approved on Juno 3(,  11 and became effective on June 30,
1982. The most critical step was to form FACU, and then proceed with the preparation of
ADAs3/. Funded under Loan 1668-UNI, an expatriate Head of Unit arrived in March 1981
and, using Nigerian and expatriate consultants, prepated and appraised ADA for six states by
the year's end. Three of these were launched. In March 1982, declining oil revenues forced
FGN to suspend the remainder of the ADA program and implementation of the Food Plan
became dependent on Bank-financed ADPs. From August 1982 to June 1983 FACU was
involved in the design and preparation of ADPs for nine states Eight of these were appraised
by the Bank as the First Multi-State (MS) AI;P in May 1984 and financed in 1986 (Loan
2733-UNI). In December 1985, preparation work began on ADPs for a further eight states.
Three were appraised by the Bank in July 1987 as the Second MSADP, and the remaining
five as the Third MSADP in March 1988. These two projects were financed in 1989 by Loan
2988-UNI and Credit 2035-UNI, respectively, when the target of covering Nigeria with ADPs
was achieved. ADPs prepared by FACU progressively incorporated experience from ongoing
ADPs, were much smaller in scope and cost than those established in the oil boom era, and
increasing emphasis was given to agriculture over infrastructure. From 1988, FACU
provided implementation assistance to the ADPs, and was also involved in the development of
second phase projects designed to sustain and boost the ADPs.
5.2   Four FASUs were established and staffed, but did not become operational later than
expected, because of expatriate staff recruitment problems. The last was not operational until
1985 These delays led to FACU dominating the FASUs and, ultimately, to the latter
becoming regional offices of the former - a change accepted by the Bank in 1986. RAIDS
personnel allocated to the Regions were appointed well in advance of the arrival of FACU
staff and a supplementary cause of the failure of RAIDS was that its regional team leaders had
to spend much of their time on administration work, in the absence of the FASUs which were
supposed to be responsible for this. RAIDS personnel were not absorbed by the regional
offices until 1986. FACU's other responsibilities were executed in a generally competent and
timely manner, i.e. the provision of support and advice to ADPs in the areas of finance,
administration, procurement, agricultural research and extension, and other technical areas.
As the project progressed FACU, with the Bank's encouragement, assumed more and more
responsibility for ADP supervision both independently and In joint missions with Bank staff.
5.3    As an existing agency with its Head of Unit in place, start-up at APMEU was
relatively easy. In PYI, its physical strengthening - staff, buildings, vehicles and equipment -
was in advance of appraisal forecasts, and by the end of 1983 (PY2) this process was
complete. On the operational side, things did not proceed so smoothly, particularly in the
4/    Acceleraed Development Area Projects. Thes were an intemnediate form of ADP to be funded by PON
and SO while ADPs were being prepaed and Bank financing sought.



-5-
area of the evaluation of ADIP impact. APMEU's role was to design the field surveys
needed, train and back-stop ADPs in carrying out the surveys and, more importantly, analyze
the data collected and report the findings. The first Bank supervision mission to focus on
APMEU was in December 1982. It found that APMEU's work in supporting tL.e monitoring
and evaluation units established in each ADP was good. It was concerned, however, that in
APMEU's most important work - the evaluation of the impact of ADP investments - progress
was poor. The mission concluded that the surveys prescribed by APMEU for use by ADPs
did not meet the requirements of ADP managers. It was concerned particularly that the
amount of work involved in carrying out FRADYS (Field Record for Agricultural Details,
Yields and Stands) the basic survey used for evalvidtion purposes, precluded APMEU and the
ADPs from undertaking any other evaluation activities, in particular short duration ad hoc
studies for planning purposes to determine specific aspects of ADP activ'ity. The mission
noted that the precursor of APMEU had failed earlier to cope with the evaluation of the
impact of the enclave ADPs and inferred that there was a danger of this failure being
repeated.
5.4   In 1984 the Bank conducted a Mid-Term Review of APMEU. Concerned about its
continuing poor progress, the Bauik employed a number of consultants specialized in survey
and sampling techniques. The review reached two conclusions. First, that a more modest
and simple monitoring and evaluation system was needed and, second, that Bank supervision
of APMEU had been too infrequent, inadequately focussed, and insufficiently technical in
content. The MTR report contained a large number of recommendations which were
generally accepted by APMEU and FDRD. Important among these was the proposal that
FRADYS should by replaced by a survey of a much more simple design. A supervision
mission in December 1986 reported that APMEU had made important improvements in over
half the areas cited in the MTR, including key recommendations about survey design,
sampling, quality improvements and clearing up the enormous data processing backlog. It
reported that in the absence of any better materki being available "........ some impossible
assertions are being made in ADP annual reports that are based on an uninformed assessment
of the raw data ..." When the closing date of the loan was extended to June 30, 1988, Bank
documents contained the following statement" ... in order to satisfy APMEU's huge appetite
for data, it has virtually paralyzed and greatly assisted in the bloating of the M&E
departnents of ADPs all over Nigeria..."
5.5   In 1988 the Bank conducted a "thematic supervision"' of Bank-financed monitoring
-and evaluation activities. Staffed by appropri3te specialists, this operation was the first in
which ADP Monitoring and Evaluation Units (MEUs) came under close scrutiny. The
mission's basic finding was that while there had been some improvement in APMEU's
performance, the evaluation process was still unsatisfactory, and the MEU's were generally
still unable to cope with their field survey responsibilities. The technically strong mission
made several pertinent recommendations which, if implemented, would have had a beneficial
effect. However, the PCR mission in March/April 1990 found the situation virtually
unchanged, with APMEU technically weak and floundering, the ADPs struggling to cope with
their survey responsibilities j/, and a total lack of either impact evaluation reports or readily
A/    Many ADPs hive their own ideu of what data they require. FRADYS generts agricultural yield and
production data on an overaUl state besiA. In the absence of any other source, such data is of great interest
to state administors. A consequence of this is that somo ADPs have declined to use the morc simple
surveys advocated by the Bank and promoted by APMEU.



-6-
available, processed and reliable data that could be used for evaluation purposes. In short,
the fears of the December 1982 supervision mission were realized.
5.6    Early in the project's life, responsibility for monitoring physical§/ project
implementation by ADPs, as well as preparation of internal PCRs for ADPs, was transferred
to APMEU. APMEU did this work well, and all ADPs use a comprehensive system of
progress reporting. In 1988, APMEU absorbed the Tree Crops MEU, a.n entity set up with
Bank financial assistance to monitor Bank and FGN-funded tree crop activities in the southern
states. MEU merged physically with APMEU's Benin Office.
5.7    Of the three eligible federal agencies, only LPU used ATAP funds. Managing agents
were employed to provide 30 man-years to run the unit from 1982 to 1985. NACB and NGB
decided that the consultancies foreseen in the SAR were not required. The Bank agreed that
FDRD could use the balance of loan funds provided for federal agencies to carry out studies
and surveys relevant to the ADP program and the agriculture sector in general. A range of
studies were carried out, notably on tree crops which are the basis of a Tree Crop Investment
Project approved by the Bank in 1989, and also studies and pilot development work in
connection with the Gongola State ADP.
5.8    A new agency emerged in the course of ATAP - the Federal Agricultural Recruitment
Agency (FARA) - which was set up in 1982 in London, with a sub-office in Bombay,
principally to recruit and service the contracts of expatriate staff needed by
FACU/APMEU/ADPs. FARA absorbed the London offices set up earlier by ADPs for this
purpose. In 1986, FARA was renamed the ADPs Liaison Agency (ADPLA), and was
relocated in Lagos in 1989. FARA/ADPLA was run efficiently by managing agents.
5.9    The project lasted for eight years rather than the projected five . This was due to the
slower than expected pace of ADP investment and facilitated by lower costs caused by delays
in expatriate recruitment and the employment of expatriate employees at lower unit costs than
was foreseen. For all ATAP agencies, costs in foreign exchange were generally in line with
or lower than appraisal costs. Conversely, Naira costs were far in excess of SAR estimates
due to local inflation.2y
6.    PrlctRsut
6.1    ATAP achieved its primary objective, that of facilitating implementation of the Food
Plan, by assisting FDRD to extend the ADP system to all states in the Federation. All states
now have, to varying degrees of extent and effectiveness, adaptive research and extension
services, and input supply services that provide fertilizer, improved seed, equipment and other
inputs, together with ongoing or completed feeder road and water supply development
programs. Over the life of ATAP, national food production has grown, buit poor quality data
make it impossible to accurately quantify this and to distinguish the underlying causes.
Given the absence of overt signs of food shortages and the general impression held by
§I     Monitoring fuunacial aspects remained with PACU. A condition of the Third MSADP (Credit 2035-UNI) is
that all monitoring should now revert to FACU, leaving APMEU with evaluation only.
2/     The Naim devalued from US$1 = 1.0 Naira in October 1986 to US$1 = 7.5 Naira by the end of 1989.



consumers and administrators that food supplies have been adequate in the last two years
(1988-89), it appears that the Food Plan goal of self-sufficiency in basic food supplies may
have been achieved or is close to being achieved. Unfortunately, the influences on production
of factors, such as SAP (see para. 4.4), weather, improved technology, ADPs activities in
general, and extension of cropped area, cannot be quantified. In part, this is a consequence
of APMEU's complete failure to put in place an effective evaluation system. It is likely,
however, that SAP has been a major reason for the upsurge in food production in recent
years.
6.2    Rates of return were not calculated for project investments, but ATAP expenditures
can be considered as part of the costs of ADPs, set-up with ATAP assistance. On average,
expenditures on FACU and APMEU now amount to about 1.8% of total ADPs expenditures
annually.
6.3    While FACU and APMEU officials were engaged in the FGN agricultural policy
dialogue, no significant new sectoral policies were introduced in the course of ATAP. In
1986, however, SAP established macro-economic policies that were very favorable to the
sector.
6.4    All ATAP agencies had substantial training programs for their own and ADP staff.
FACU and APMEU provided formal post-graduate training for staff members, as well as
short courses. They also organized over 400 training courses, seminars, and workshops for
their staff, and as well as for ADP staff. Agricultural technologies promoted by FACU and
the ADPs were mostly environmentally neutral. No excessive dosages of fertilizers and other
chemicals were included in project packages. Mechanization and clear felling were not
encouraged in FACU-prepared ADPs. Conversely, cropping systems that promoted '
maximum duration of soil cover were encouraged. Tle technological climate was improved
by the project, and the adaptive research and T&V extension systems employed by the ADPs,
although needing fuirther development, have created some of the essential linkages between
research, extension and farners needed for sustainable agricultural development.
7.    Sustaingbility
7.1   In the course of ATAP implementation, the sustainability of FACU and APMEU was
often questioned. Concern was expressed over the Units' initial very heavy dependence on
expatriates and the potential problem of finding Nigerians to replace them, as well as the
legitimacy of the operational freedom accorded the Units. There were fears that the units
were unduly dependent upon the support of the Bank and a few senior officials in FGN.
While ATAP agencies received firm support from FGN, the sustainability issue remains.
APMEU has serious technical and staffing problems. Resolving both probably requires still
further external technical assistance (see para 4.3), but part of the latter arises from the
percIption of APMEU's mostly Nigerian staff that their pay and incentives are inadequate and
inferior to those of other federal agencies. FACU's performance has generally been regarded
as satisfactory or very satisfactory by Bank supervision missions. However, many of its
professional staff - expatriate staff and Nigerian - are expected to leave in 1990. It is
expected that most will be replaced by regutlar civil servants, many of whom are experienced
administrators although they will not be the technical specialists which FACU requires. The
basic rationale for FACU and APMEU still exists and both Units are needed for several years



-8 -
to come. In recognition of this, they are now being supported by the Bank under Credit
2035-UNI, which will provide funding through 1995. APMEU has, however, such serious
problems (see para 5.5), that its future utility must be questioned, unless these problems are
resolved very quickly. FACU has no clear cut work program beyond the end of 1990 and no
related plan for filling vacancies with qualified personnel; steps need to be taken to prepare
both, as well as to review what appears to be an excessive number of support staff. At the
same time, the modalities of the APMEU/FACU merger, which events have shown to be long
overdue, should be examined. Credit 2035-UNI includes funds for relocating FACU
headquarters from Ibadan to Abuja. This would be a suitable time to merge the Units and
introduce other essential reforms.
8.    Bank's Performance
8.1    The Bank's performance was particularly good in the early stages of the project cycle.
The appraisal mission was in the field a month after the publication of the Food Plan and,
within nine months, FACU began its operations. Subsequent supervision of FACU was
satisfactory.
8.2    Bank supervision of APMEU was ineffective, (see para 5.5), despite the relatively
early identification of the coexistence of serious problems and the mounting of some
technically sound missions, such as the 1986 MTR and the 1988 Thematic Supervision.
Much advice was provided to APMEU, but the latter was generally unable to use it
effectively. It was clear now that the evaluation task set at appraisal for APMEU and the
ADPs was unrealistic. Unfortunately, by the time the Bank had begun to insist on
rationalization and simplification, subsequent to MTR, APMEU's technical capacity was
beginning to decline as expatriates left and a Bank-initiated ban on further expatriate
recruitment came into operation. As a consequence, APMEU's capacity to implement very
major reforms tha. require full agreement and collaboration with each ADP was limited and
proved inadequate .or the purpose. The problem with APMEU was consequently one of
management, as much as of technique, and probably the Bank paid too little attention to the
former. It would seem that better results would have been achieved had the original APMEU
program been prepared by an agency such as that described in para 4.3. A review by this
type of entity would have been appropriate at the time of the MTR and probably would not be
out of place today.
8.3   The emphasis given by the Bank to the use of formal set-piece survey techniques
(even in the case of alternatives recommended for FRADYS), which that are very expensive
to conduct and generate a mass of data for analysis, was probably inappropriate. The use of
rapid rural appraisal (RRA) techniques to look at specific issues probably would have been a
much more cost-effective approach to providing viable data both for planning and impact
evaluation purposes. Such RRA techniques should be considered now for adoption by
APMEU and the ADPs.
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.1    Overall, the Borrower's support for the project was satisfactory. The project was
conceived at a time of very satisfactory Government revenues. Despite an abrupt change to



-9 -
financial stringency, FGN/FDRD support for ATAP agencies remained good, although
counterpart funding was not always adequate in the project's later years. The Borrower's
Insistence that RAIDS should remain separate from FACU did not help the latter's
performance.
10.    Project Relationships
10.1   Bank-Borrower relationships were mixed. Controversies arose between the Bank and
FDRD over matters such as consultancy awards, staff appointments and FDRD's unilateral
lowering of the ceiling on ixpatriate salaries. The latter resulted in a period of poor relations
between the Bank and the vi)RD. Bank relations with APMEU and FACU were generally
good, although fiiction arose periodically over what FACU perceived as Bank insensitivity to
the realities of the situation in Nigeria. Relationships between ATAP agencies and the ADPs
were generally good and improved in the course of the project.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1   Many consultants were employed in the course of the project, in particular by FACU
to assist in ADP preparation. These were essentially short-term appointments. There were
only three major contracts: management agents for LPUs, a consultant team to carry out the
Mambilla Plateau Pilot Project in Gongola State, and managing agents for RAIDS. The
performance of the first two groups was satisfactory; that of the latter mixed, due in large
part too the ill-defined program and objectives set for RAIDS by FDRD, and also the
confused administrative relationship with FACU. Overall, most consultants, firms and
individuals, performed satisfactorily.
12.   Proect Documentation and Data
12.1  The ATAP legal documents contained no special features. The SAR provided a
partial framework for implementation through its detailed terms-of-reference and job
descriptions. For PCR preparation, adequate data were available from Bank and Borrower,
except for activities under Part C of the project. However, it was not always possible to
document from Bank records the processes that led to changes which occurred in the project's
life.
Agriculture Operations Division
Western Africa Department
28th June 1991



- 10-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IIGERIA
AGRICULT AL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROiECT
(LOAN 2029-UNI)
PART II
BORROWER'S COMMENTS
Introduction
1.1    The ATAP Loan PCR for the implementation of the Nigerian Food Production Plan
which was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Investment Center is an
important analytical document which could serve as a good guide for future project
formulation design and implementation.
1.2    However, some of the conclusions drawn about APMEU's program, which is one of
the institutions under review, may not be quite justifiable, unlike those relating to FACU's
performance which are realistic and objective. Our specific comments on the PCR are as
follows.
2.    Pro_eCt Design and Organization
2.1    The PCR states in paragraph 4.3 that "with hindsight, the decision to support FDRD
with two Units - FACU and APMEU - seems to have been a mistake" and that "had a single
unit been responsible for all phases of the ADP project cycle, it is probable that a more
positive approach would have been made to resolving the evaluation". The benefits of having
such a single agency should be weighed against its major weakness, i.e. the risk of
minimizing evaluation objectivity. One of FACU major assignments is implementation
support to the ADPs. Our opinion is that an agency which is involved in implementing a
project should not be involved in evaluating the project it helped to implement, if the risk of
compromising evaluation objectivity is to be avoided.
2.2    The Government accepts the view that the SAR should have properly harmonized the
roles of RAIDS as perceived by the Borrower and the Bank. In any case, this is no longer an
issue as Govermnent has excised RAIDS from the ADP system and merged it with the
Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure (DFRRI) in the Presidency.
3.    Project Implementation
3.1    The Project Completion Report states that on the operational side of things did not
proceed so smoothly, particularly in the area of ADP impact. This is a valid observation. It



Is necessary to conduct a project impact assessment on beneficiaries. The studies can be done
by consultants under APMEU's supervision, if the Unit lacks the proper personnel to do so
directly. Recently, the Department of Agriculture had to ask APMEU to undertake impact
studies of some ADPs. It is gratifying to note that the Unit's evaluation activities are now
geared towards impact assessment and cross-project analysis.
3.2    The PCR page 5 paragraph 5.4 states "In order to satisfy APMEU's huge appetite for
data, it has virtually paralyzed and greatly assisted in the bloating of the M&E departments of
ADPs all over Nigeria". It will be recalled that after MTR two committees were formed, i.e.
Technical Review Committee and Survey Design Committee of which ADPs M&E staff were
members. The committees have the responsibility of reviewing Core Survey Program and
design formats. The committees meet annually to carry out their activities. Thus, the
impression created here that the Core Survey data are for APMEU is not correct. The
problem, however, is the ADP M&E cells inability to undertake analysis of these surveys at
the project level. Given the desirability of increased analytical capacity in the ADPs,
APMEU has been training ADP staff on the use of in-house and proprietary software on
micro-computers. However, due to high staff turn-over at the ADPs the problem of analyzing
core survey at their project level still rely on APMEU for the same. The need for APMEU
to evolve usable and functionally oriented data is appreciated. APMEU's success in
establishing Monitoring and Evaluation Units in all the ADPS and in providing them with
training and technical guidance is very much appreciated. In spite of its difficulties and
weaknesses, APMEU working in close association with ADP M&E units has become the
major source of agricultural data in the country. APMEU's capability must be strengthened.
3.3    The statement in paragraph 5.5 that MEUs are still unable to cope with field survey
responsibility is correct. APMEU undertook a study on resource availability to M&E units in
1988-89 and made recommendations on appropriate resource need, in order to address this
problem. It should be noted that up till now most M&E cells have not been able to meet half
of the requirements. In any case, the matter is being taken up with the States concerned.
4.    Project Results
4.1    The PCR states in paragraph 3.1 that the assumptions made in the SAR that naacro-
economic hindrances could be overcome by available agricultural technology was incorrect.
The PCR ascribes the achievements in food production to Structural Adjustment Program
launched in 1986 and the reinforcement of previous restrictions on Food Imports which
subsequently created a favorable climate for the agricultural sector. Our view is that the mere
creation of an economic climate alone could not have achieved the self-sufficiency in food
production which the country has now achieved. In this regard the PCR has oversimplified
the process of change that has been taking place in the past one and half decades since the
inception of the ADP system by ascribing the performance of the agricultural sector to SAP.
While the policy measures adopted under SAP must have had a salutary effect on the
performance of the rural sector, the recent achievements in food production could not have
been possible without the technology transfer associated with the adaptive research and
extension program of the ADP system (including the ATAP Supported Units), their input
delivery system for distribution of improved seed, fertilizer, chemicals and equipment, and
the infrastructure development program.



-12 -
4.2    On page 7 paragraph 6.1, the PCR states "Unfortunately, the influences on production
of factors such as SAP, weather, improved technology, ADPs activities in general and
extension of cropped area cannot be quantified. In part, this is a consequence of APMEU's
complete failure to put in place an effective evaluation system." This statement is an unfair
criticism of APMEU for the following reasons:
(i)   Is it really possible to isolate in any precise manner the individual contribution
of factors such as SAP, weather, technology etc., considering their
complimentarity in crop production.
(ii)    With the assistance of APMEU, all the 22 ADPs have been able to establish
an M&E system which provides data on Crop Production. Activities of the
M&E cells now serve as Project's data bank.
(iii)    Many survey reports and Project Completion Reports for ADPs, while the
national mandate for overall data gathering is FOS's.
4.3   The PCR is quite correct in its observation that over the life of ATAP, national food
production has grown but poor quality data makes it difficult to accurately quantify it and to
distinguish underlying factors. Government's own assessment is that the growth of the
agriculture sector has exceeded the 4 per cent margin for three consecutive years.
S.    Sshtainabilitv
5.1   The issue of sustainability is being addressed. A consultancy study is being mounted
by FACU at the request of the Department of Agriculture of FMANR to address the issue.
Sustainability of the ADP system and the future type and content of work would depend on
the outcome of this study. A long term work plan will be drawn up, once the proposed study
is completed. As regards structure, FACU has recently been re-organized for greater
effectiveness. Key positions are being filled. A package of incentives has been approved for
FACU and APMEU by FADPEC, to enable them recruit highly qualified Nigerians from the
Universities and the private sector. The PCR observes on page 8, paragraph 7.1 that
APMEU has serious technical and staffing problems. This is true. The situation is however
being addressed. A training programme is being arranged with the University of East Anglia,
United Kingdom as part of a rebuilding strategy. It is also hoped to workout a tripartite
linkage between that University, APMBU and a local University. Besides, two international
positions have been filled on Technical Service Contract to strengthen the Unit. The Unit has
also been recently re-organized along programme lines and key staff are to be recruited
shortly from the private and public sectors of the Nigerian economy on the basis of the
package of incentives recently approved by FADPEC. A major factor which had adversely
affected APMEU's performance as well as its ability to adopt recommendations of
Supervision Missions effectively is the high turn-over of both management and technical staff
which has proved unhelpful to the growth of the Unit.
5.2    On the issue of merger of APMEU AND FACU, Government holds the view, as
indicated in an earlier section, that the decision to support FDA with FACU and APMEU as
separate semi-autonomous entities was well conceived, given the need to ensure proper
implementation of ADPs on the one hand and ensuring objective evaluation reporting on the
other.



- 13 -
implementation of ADPs on the one hand and ensuring objective evaluation reporting on the
other.
5.3    The PCR is generally appreciative of FACU's performance. The areas critical of
FACU relate to the role of RAIDS, the absence of a work program for ADP beyond the end
of 1990 and filling vacancies with qualified personnel. As for RAIDS, the organization was
never effectively undcr FACU. It had an independent existence even when it was
administratively attached to FACU. In fact the report itself says "the borrowers insistence
that RAIDS should remain separate from FACU did not help the latter's performance".
6.    Blank's Performance
6.1    The Borrower accepts the view expressed in paragraph 8.2 of the PCR that Bank
supervision of APMEU was ineffective, only to the extent that it had not induced the Unit to
improve its performance in some critical areas.
7.    Borrower's Performanc
7.1    The PCR's assessment of the borrower's performance is realistic. However, its
assessment of the problem of RAIDS is not acceptable to the borrower, as the problem arose
fundamentally from the failure of the SAR to harmonize the Borrower's views on the roles
and responsibilities of RAIDS with those of the Bank. The Bank lacked sensitivity of the
borrower's perception of the role of RAIDS.
Department of Agriculture
Federal Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources
28th June. 1991



- 14 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                  Purpose                     Year of       Status
Title                                          .      Apr-oval
Loan - UNI         Support a range of cattle                1975      Completed
Livestock         development schemes
Loan 1092-UNI      Support an enclave agricultural          1975      Completed
Funtua ADPs        area develoment project containing
a large rural infrastructure com-
ponent and providing adaptive
research, input supply and exten-
sion services
Loan 1099-UNI      As for Funtua                            1975      Completed
Gusau AOP
Loan 1164-UNI      As for Funtua                            1975      Completed
Gombe ADP
Loan 1454-UNI      As for Funtua                            1977      Completed
Lafia AOP
Loan 1455-UNI      As for Funtua                            1977      Completed
Ayangba AOP
Loan 1667-UNI      As for Funtua                            1979      Completed
Bida ADP
Loan 1668-UNI
Ilorin ADP        As for Funtua                            1979      Completed
Loan 1719-UNI      Construct and staff an institute         1979      Completed
Agricultural      to train mid and higher level
and Rural         agricultural managers
Management
Training Institute
Loan 1838-UNI      As for Funtua                            1980      Completed
Oyo North AOP
Loan 1854-UNI      As for Funtua                            1980      Completed
Skit i-Akoko ADP
Loan 1981-UNI      A statewide agricultural                 1981      Completed
Bauchi State      development project containing
AOP               the elements of Funtua
Loan 1982-UNI      As for Bauchi                            1981      Completed
Kano State AOP
Loan 2185-UNI      As for Bauchi                            1982      Ongoing
Sokoto State AOP
Loan 2436-UNI      Project subsequently split to cover   1984         Ongoing
Kaduna State      Kaduna and Katsina States



-15-
AOP
Loan 2733-UNI      Supports Bauchi AOP type devel-
Multi State       opments in eight states                 1986       Ongoing
ADP I
Loan 2737-UNI      A range of livestock development        1987       Ongoing
LivestOck 11      schemes - mostly with small farmers
- conducted on a Nigerian-wide basis.
Loan 2741-UNI      As for Bauchi                           1989       Ongoing
Borno State ADP
Loan 2988-UNI      As for MSADP 1 covers three states    1989         Ongoing
Multi-State
AOP It
Credit 2035-UNI   As for MSOP I covers four states.        1989       Ongoing
Multi-State       Contains provision of the
ADP lII           continued support of ATAP agencies:
FACU' APMEU and ADPLA



16 -
2:-- Project Timetable
Item              Date Planned        Date Revised           Date Actual
Identification                                 -                 February 1980
Preparation                 .                                     May 1980
Appraisal Mission           -                                     June 1980
Loan Negotiations           -                                     March 1981
Loan Signature                                                  2 September 1981
Loan Effectiveness    31 October 1981         "    "               30 June 1982
Loan Closing            31 December 1986   31 December 1987   31 December 1989
30 June 1988
30 June 1989
Loan Completion                                                   5 January 1990
(last statement of
paid withdrawals)
Comments
The project was conceived in the course of the work undertaken by FGN
and the B;nk on the Food Plan and project concepts emerged in the course of
the ensuing dialogue. FORD engaged consultants to prepare the project. The
request that the Bank Should finance the project was submitted by FGN in
February 1980.



- 17 -
3. Loan Disbursements and Follow-On Project
Cumulative Estimated aold Actual Oisbursements
(USS'mi1 lion)
FY:     1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Appraisal Estimate        9.9  22.8  35.8  45.0  47.0
Actual                     1.0   5.6  14.3  19.6  24.0  29.5  38.1  44.4  46.8
Actual as X               10    25    40    44    51    63    81    94    99.6
of Estimate
Date of Final
Disbursement:           9 January 1990
Follow-on ProJect
Name:                    Third Multi State Agricultural Development Project
Credit No:               Cr. 2035-UNI
Credit Amount:           SOR 75 million (USS100.9 million)
Total project costs USS159.4 million
Date of Board Approval: June 13, 1989.
This projects objective is to increase agricultural production levels
and efficiency of four southern states (Ondo, Oyo, Lagos and Rivers) and
enable rural populations to raise their standards of living. The project
would also support effective measures to increase and sustain production
levels and efficiency while ensuring conservation of natural resources. New
rural infrastructure would be created and that existing maintained.
ATAP established agencies which would provide technical assistance to the
four states and others would receive: FACU US$21.2 million and APNEU US$12.5
million. The credit would sustain the agencies through 1995 and provide,
inter alia, for the relocation of FACU at federal headquarters in Abuja as
wellais70r additional buildings and housing for APNEU.



- 18
4. ProJect Implementatiorn
No indicators were established at appraisal.
5. ProJect Costs and Financino
A. Project Costs;
Table 1. Total Project Cost
(US Million)
SAR Estimated Cost              Actual Costs
Local   FE    Total       Local    FE       Total
APMEU            20.5   9.1    29.6           16.4    7.4    23.8
FACU             51.9  31.2  . 83.1          29.4   18.9    49.1
Other Technical  0.7   6.7       7.4          0.5    4.3      4.8
Support
Total            73.1  47.0   120.1          46.3   30.6    76.9
(Percent)       (61%) (39%)  (100%)         (60%)  (40%)   (100%)
B.   ProJect Financing
Planned
Source        Loan Ar;ement                         Final
Federal
Goverruent         73.1       (61%)           30.1          (39%)
World Bank         47.0       (39%)          46.8           (61X}
Total             120.1      (100%)          76.9          (100%)



- 19 -
C. Allocation df Loan Proceeding
(Disbursements in USS Million)
Planned
Category                    APount        Revised     Actual
(us-T T      (US$ M)    (USS M)
1.  Buildings                          1.1         1.7        0.5
2.  Vehicles, equipment,               6.2         8.0         6.2
components and spare
parts
3.  Salaries and allowances          28.0         29.0        33.0
of internationally recruited
staff, consultants, services,
studies and overseas training
Parts A & B of the Projects
4. Consultants services                7.0         7.0         5.8
for Part C of the Project
5.  Operating costs and                  -         1.3         0.8
general services
excluding salaries
6.  Unallocated                         4.7           -        0.8
Total                             47.0        47.0       46.8



- 20 -
6.              Status of Covenants
LA. 3.03 (a)    The Borrower shall establish at Kaduna, Ibadan, Jos and Enugu, four
Federal Agricultural Support Units (FASU's) with form and
functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
- Borrower with Bank agreement abandoned the FASU concept,
and created Regional Offices of FACU at Kaduna, Jos, Enugu
and Benin.
LA. 3.02 (b)    Borrower, through a firm of consultants, could staff each of the
above with senior staff satisfactory to the Bank.
- Borrower and Bank agreed on direct recruitment.
LA. 3.03        The Borrower shall issue technical guidelines for preparation of
ADA projects for use by States.
- Satisfactory guidelines issued.
LA. 3.04 (a)    The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) in a form and with functions
sat factory to the Bank.
-  FACU established at Ibadan in agreement with the Bank.
LA. 3.04 (b)    The Borrower should employ for FACU such senior staff as the
Bank and Borrower shall agree where qualifications, experience and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Banlk
- Complied with generally but in course of project implementation
Borrower unilaterally lowered salaries and other benefits against
the Bankes advice.
LA 3.05 (a)     In order to Assist the Borrower to carry out the project the Borrower
shall employ consultants and specialists whose qualications,
experience etc. shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
* Complied with.
LA 3.06         The Borrower shall continue to maintain APMEU in a form and
with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bauk; and cause
APMEU to employ senior staff with qualifications and experience
and under tenns and conditions of service etc. satisfactory to the
Bank.
-  Complied with inidally but quality of staffing declined in course
of project implementation.



- 21 -
LA 3.06 (a)     The Borrower shall cause institutions provided with technical
assistance under Part C of the Project to submit to the Bank
quarterly and annual progress reports on the use of the services of
any consultants employed.
Not complied with.
LA 3.09 (a)        The Borrower shall cause APMEPU and FASU to send to the
Federal Department of Rural Development land the Bank
annual work programmes three months in advance of the
beginning of the budget year.
- Compliance variable over time and between institutions. FACU
now in full compliance.
LA 3.09 (b)     Tbe Borrower shall cause APMEPU and FACU prepare quarterly
and annual progress reports.
-  CompUance mixed over time and between institutions. Quarterly
reporting has never been done, but annual reporting is now
reasonably regular.
LA 3.10         The Borrower shall make adequate budgetary previsions for, and pay
to FACU and APMEU at least three months in advance.
- Compliance mixed, particularly in recent years and because of
financial stringencies caused by Structural Adjustment
Programme, but overall efficiencies not seriously constrained.
LA 3.12 (d)     The Borrower shall submit to the Bank within six months of the
Closing Date a report on the execution and initial operation of the
project and its costs.
- APMEPU has submitted an Internal Project Completion Report
but without costs. FACU has submitted similar material also
without final costs Submission of final costs awaits audit of 1989
(financial year ends December 31) accounts.
LA 4.02 (a)     the Borrower shall clause APMEPU and FACU to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with appropriate accounting
positions their operations and finncial conditions, and
LA 4.02 (b)     To have their accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than four months after
the end of each fiscal year.
- Compliance mixed, particularly in early years, but FACU now in
fill compliance with audited accounts and financial statements
for all years including 1989,. LIst audited reports for APMEPU
are 1987.



7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staf nuls
I~~ -   i    - -. 
FY30    FYtI   FY82        FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89      FY90
Preappraisal             50*
Appraisal                50 
Negotiations             5        5*
Supervision                       35*      47.4      38.1      35.8      21.7      24.2     16.3      13.5      8.2       8.4
Total                    IOS     40*      47.4      38.1      35.1      21.7      24.2     16.3      13.5      3.2       8.4
These are estimates. Actual data arc not availible.



a MI$sO4 Dta
Oats          Nwnba              MaN-ys          59P lZatbnCw           Patqoranca             T:mn        |           of
Mwto/Y        of PIrsns              In FWd       Raprsaed al             RawP  bt                V               Plbts di
ldwMcaUon                     11)79            1                      5             a                      .                   .
PrtPiJaISe a/                 1*W               7                    135          ac.d..f
APaP,                         5*0              3                     30             c..
Srpto4slon1                   SJll15                                                c                      .                   .
Suprnhb4on2                   111              1                      3             c
Sup4s1  3                    11M1              2                      a            ab .b
Splmn4Uo 4                    2*b2             2                      6             ab                     1                              _
Spnson5                      122               2                     12             s                     2                    1                  F.P
Sqw,Aslon6                    2103             1                     14             e
Su"slon ? 1O103                                1                      5             a                      -       _              _
suionS                        GM4              1                     20             *                      2                   2                   .
SaP"waet1cn9                 10*4              2                      6             *                     2                    2                  WF
Sutpuson 10                   6*5              1                     11             a                      .                   .
5&4uns.1lof11                11*5S             1                      5             b                      -IkT
Suw,A&Ion 12                  1*6              1                      5             a                    3 /                   .
S     Vp%uI 13                4*6              1                      5             a                    -l                    -                        -
SnlOn 1J4                     4A6              1                     16                                   Cl   _                                  M.T
Supsr,IALon 15               10*6              2                     12            ah                    3C/                                      M.T
Supersion 16                 WIN 6                                    s             c                    31    _                                  M.T
SlPCIOn ?                     5*/7             1                     10             c                    - C
Sup .,A" 18                   1*8              1                      5             c                    -       _            -
Supornslon 19                 7*               1                      5             c                    2 de. _                _ _T
upa te                        609                                                                         2



Footnotes to table Mission Qala
a/         a - Agriculturist
b - Financial Analyst
c - Agricultural Economist
d - Training Specialist
o - Inputs Specialist
f - Roads Engineer
g - Agro-industry Specialist
h - Operations Assistant
b/         I - probt.m free or minor problems
2 - moderate problems
3 - major problems
C,         I - improving
2 - stationary
d/         F . Financial
M . Management
T . Technical
P- Political
0 - Other
e/         New Form 590 in use that shows rating for overall status.



IERD 19816tl
NrGER    CHAD                            NIGERIA
NI G ER                                                                                         -IBRD
ASSISTED
AGRICULTURAL
36so                                                                           TS1NA                                                           JPROJECTS
/ / SOKOTO        \            3                                                                                                                                       COMPPLTED
l SOKOTO                                                                                                                                                              I   '  g             1 Cocoa I (Loon 764-UN!)
G f                        0           j               MNO              <             0                     BORNO                  ouoGUiJ                        2  Co= 11 (Loon 1045-UNI)
KANO                           K                                                      Lwas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 retock. (Loon 1091 -UNI)
4  F                                                                                                     F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ untuc (Loon 1092.UNI)
5    Gusou (Loon l099-UNI)
6Pboe (Loa. 71103-UN!)
BENIN                     )              Ga/fn9          <             KADUNA               2 5                                                   3                       J                               ;7  Gombe e(Lon 6IUNI)
oX   ( )    ResersB  1  £>   H  -t  BAUCHI                >   _ZaJ  l                                                      8  Imo Oi Poalm (Loon 1192.UNI)
9     oLlfa (Loon 1454-UNI)
NIGER                                                    BAUCHI                      7310   Ayongbo (Loon 1455-UNI)
Pl- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          I~~~~~~1    Pvers Oil Pofm (Loon 1591 -UNI)
lo$ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HD                                                               12 Bido (Loan 1667.UNI)
13   Ekih.-AkoLo (Loon 1854-UNI)
,_,/ ,- 12                 /                        PLATEAU ) 0 f \ CANCELLD:
A                                                                       YOLA                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ondo 0il Poln, (Loon I19-UN!!
Bendel Oil0 P!m (Loon 1183-UN!)
I 4 \i)2LOPJN                                                 9                                                                                                              nz L-w j  r EXISTlNG:
0                 L>. OY;)  ffI GONGOf.A  } 9° j |- A llonn (Loon 1668-UNI)
MADAN                                                           B)C                                                                                                                C    Fosty (Loon 1679-UNI)
ONDO                                                                                                                                                                   L) f      Notho (Loon 1838-UN!)
CBouch- St. (Loon 1981 -UN!)
BENIN;69 4;|5V  s M      0    J l        Q Q? t               nUmol ve> of rheWodd°o                                                                    H    Kouno St. (Lo.on 1982UNI)
ANAM                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agr Ted, Aesso  Project
0 ~~~~)  -p h- b.- p,,p-d by                                                     (D~~~~~~ (Loon 2029. UNI)
<~ -~  (or the nennen,enre of reedNotron.1 Coo'sI                                               G    SokotoSt (Loon 21B5.UNI)
(mOM-    .o r. dB.                                                                                                                rc   Kaduno St. (Loon 2436.UNI(
Jnd  5the bond.-es  sthe -                                                                J    M5ADP I (Loon 2733.UNi)
on-,h, n.e do n-t-.ply - on he
ooy  t j   odg 1dtt on th  ego!.   So. eao.ndor.es                                             Bomo St.   (Loon 2741 -UN)
CALABAR            to.too e-sY te-nte,-ornyI                                                                L   MSADPI!1
edennont or ocre-cone e                    nierrosool Bo-ndo.-
/   ..          .. 1 1  A   UVOtS    g                    " x  9  '  w x r ° °^>                      Inemohonpl Bovndories                 i7          2nd Livestodk (Loon 2737-UNI)
,    1ARCUU0           AKWA                                                                                                                     APPfWSED.           MSADP Dl
IBOM                     nOIse .5 0rI6              I0 5
Nobe, 1988



