Document of
The World Bank                  ixjt
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
Rept NoP-3080-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 1, 1981
Thbi doument ha a restred dbtsibuln and may be wed by recipients only in the performnce of
flwk offiad dutis. ts comtents my wt oerFwie be disclosed without Wodd BDnk authorkln.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
US$1   - NO.55
ia   -  US$1.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton         -  0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)       -  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)    -  0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA              - Accelerated Developimnt Area
ADP              - Agricultural Development Project
APMPU            - Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit
FACU            - Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FASU            - Federal Agricultural Support Unit
FDRD            - Federal Department of Rural Development
F-PP            - Food Production Plan for Nigeria
LPU-             - Livestock Project Unit
NACB            - Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NGB             - Nigerian Grains Board
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSlSTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:             US$47 million
Terms:              Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:      The project would assist in strengthening the Federal
Department of Rural Development and related institutions
responsible for or of critical importance to the implemen-
tation of the recently initiated Food Production Plan for
Nigeria (1981-85) through the provision of a well-balanced
package of technical assistance and logistical support,
including some 318 man-years of specialist services.
Although there is some risk with this sizeable expatriate
input, it is considered acceptable in this case in view of
the Government's strong commitment to alleviate its food
shortage by all possible means and because of the training
programs aimed at phasing out the expatriate input within
the shortest possible time.
Estimated Cost:                                 Local    Foreign      Total
-------US$ Millions-------
Staff Costs                                      23.5       23.3       46.8
Short-term Consultant Services                    0.7        4.3        5.0
Training                                          1.1        0.6        1.7
Buildings                                         2.0        0.8        2.9
Vehicles and Equipment                            3.7         5.4       9.1
Operating Costs                                  20.7        3.7       24.5
Base Costs                                  51.6       38.5       90.1
Physical Contingencies                            2.6         1.9       4.5
Price Contingencies                              18.9        6.6       25.5
Total Project Costs (including taxes and
duties of US$17.7 million)                       73.1       47.0      120.1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                            Local           Foreign          Total
---------US$ Millions--          --
IBRD                                                        47.0            47.0
Federal Government                           73.1             _             73.1
Total                                  73.1            47.0          120.1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                            82       83       84       85       86
- --------US$ Millions- - --------
Annual                                        9.9   12.9    13.0    9.2        2.0
Cumulative                                    9.9   22.8    35.8   45.0    47.0
Staff Appraisal Report:                            3207b-UNI, dated April 30, 1981



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$47 million
to help finance a technical assistance project for the implementation of
Nigeria's Food Production Plan. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last Country Economic Memorandum on Nigeria (Report 3232-UNI)
distributed to the Executive Directors was dated April 7, 1981.
An economic.report examining the long-term economic prospects and policy
options facing Nigeria is being prepared, and will be circulated later this
year. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        The present civilian Government, headed by President Alhaji Shehu
Shagari, assumed office on October 1, 1979, following 13 years of military
rule. The Government's priorities and policies are set out in the recently
issued Outline of the Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85). Rural
development, increased food production, education, and low-cost housing are
focal points of the new administration's program. The desire for decent-
ralization, and the fact that in many states the opposition parties are in
power, constitute a formidable challenge for the Nigerian leadership in
successfully implementing a national development strategy.
Recent Economic Developments
4.        Although oil output rose rapidly in the early 1970s, reaching a peak
of 2.3 million barrels a day (mbd) in 1974, it was only with the quadrupling
of the oil price in 1973-74 that Nigeria's financial situation changed funda-
mentally. The dramatic rise in the oil income occurred at a time when Nigeria
ranked among the world's poorest countries and had a predominantly agricultural
economy, with manufacturing accounting for less than 10 percent of GDP.
5.        The Government's first concern, as reflected in the Third National
Development Plan (1975-80), was to use the new wealth to modernize the country.
The four-fold increase in public revenue allowed initiation of a vast investment
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Reports for
the Bauchi State and Kano Agricultural Development Projects, approved by
the Board on April 30, 1981.



- 2 -
program, and generated a growth rate of 7 percent a year. Public investment
was concentrated on developing transport and communication networks, expanding
education, and setting up heavy industry.  But the large public expenditures
also caused high rates of inflation in the early years and wastage of resources.
In fact, expenditures rose much faster than income, and witthin two years
deficits reappeared in both the budget aDd the balance of payments.  These
developments brought the country to the brink of financial crisis in 1978.
6.        With the successive increases in the oil price over the past two
years - from US$14 to US$39 per barrel - Nigeria-s financial position has once
again greatly improved.  In 1980, export earnings and government revenue are
estimated at about 2-1/2 times the level in 1978.  Federal Government expendi-
tures in the budgets of 1980 and 1981 have been allowed to rise roughly in
line with the increase in revenue. The composition of capital expeDditures
proposed for 1980 and 1981 reflects the new Government's increasing emphasis
on agriculture, housing, water supply, and road maintenance.
7.        Nigeria-s pattern of economic growth over the past few years has
displayed many of the characteristics associated with the development of other
oil exporting countries.  High rates of domestic inflation, comDined with an
appreciatiDg value of the naira, meant that domestic costs of production rose
relatively to foreign costs. At the same time, costs in such purely domestic
sectors as construction and services (where supplies could not be augmented
through imports) rose at a more rapid pace than costs in the tradeable sectors.
Consequently, agriculture and manufacturing were placed at a disadvantage
vis-a-vis both foreign produced goods (which became relatively cheaper) and
purely domestic sectors (which became more profitable). In the agricultural
sector, the output of subsistence crops as well as traditional export crops
stagnated. The manufacturiDg sector too found it difficult to compete with
imports, despite extensive government incentives, and suffered from risin6
costs and infrastructure bottleDecks.
Poverty and Basic Needs
8.        Nigeria has an estimated population of 83 million and a per capita
income of about US$670 (1979). Although Nigeria is placed among the middle-
income countries, acute poverty is still widespread.  In 1978, an estimated
35 percent of the households in the urban areas and 55 percent in the rural
areas were unable to meet the minimum expenditure required for food and other
necessities of life. A substantial portion--20 percent of all households in
urban areas and 40 percent in rural areas--did not have incomes adequate to
meet even basic food requirements.
9.        In terms of such health indicators as infant mortality, life expec-
taDcy, and incidence of disease, Nigeria is not much better than the poorest
countries in Africa.  Infant mortality is believed to be well over 100 per
thousand, and life expectancy still under 50 years. This is in spite of a
substantial rise iD the number of doctors, nurses, and hospitals in relation
to Nigeria-s population. Reduction of mortality in Nigeria, as iD other COUD-
tries experiencing rapid rises in income, will be a slow process, requirinD



- 3 -
the spread of an effective primary health care system and progress on a range
of related socio-economic factors, particularly nutrition, primary education,
and water supply.
10.       Nigeria has, however, taken big strides in human resource develop-
ment through the Government's firm commitment to universal primary education
(UPE). As a result, some 60 percent of the school age children are now
enrolled, and in several parts of the south, UPE is already a reality. The
pace at which the program was pursued inevitably created problems, e.g. lack
of trained teachers, deterioration in the quality of education, diversion of
labor from agriculture, and a rising demand for secondary education. But
these initial troubles are likely to ease when the rate of expansion stabi-
lizes. Within the next two decades Nigeria should be transformed from a
country with very high rates of illiteracy to one where most of the population
has been to school.
11.       Although there was little increase in agricultural output during
most of ttue 1970s, off-farm rural activity expanded considerably, mostly from
public expenditures on construction following the oil boom. Rural incomes
were also augmented by the rapid growth in the service sectors and a probable
increase in remittances from urban areas. The growth in incomes appears to
have been spread widely and to have relieved the rural poverty somewhat.
12.       In urban areas, formal sector employment rose rapidly, perhaps
around 8 percent a year in the 1970s. But real wages appear not to have risen
over the last 15 years. In 1975, there was a substantial increase in public
sector wages, promptly followed by an increase in the private sector. But
this gain was quickly eroded by the ensuing high inflation and the Government's
restraint on further wage increases as part of its policy to control inflation.
Nevertheless, average real wage earnings appear to have risen as a result of
the distribution of employment moving towards the higher paying sectors.  Fur-
thermore, since formal sector employment rose in relative terms, an increasing
proportion of the labor force came to enjoy a higher standard of living.
Although the relative size of the informal sector appears to have declined
slightly over the past decade, it still is the dominant mode of employment in
urban areas. Because of the rapid expansion in construction, trade and
commerce, the income earning possibilities in this sector remained generally
good, and average real incomes at the lower end of the scale probably remained
stable, or even improved slightly.
Economic Prospects
13.       As the major source of public revenue and foreign exchange earnings,
oil is basic to an assessment of Nigeria's long-term economic prospects. On
present knowledge, Nigeria's oil output over the next decade is not expected
to be sustained above the current average of 2.15 mbd; by 1990 it may even
begin to decline. With domestic consumption of oil products rising rapidly
(over 15 percent a year), the exportable surplus is expected to decline from
the current rate of over 90 percent of output to about 70 percent by 1990.
Thus, if past trends persist, and no new sources of export earnings and public



- 4 -
revenue are developed to make up for the relative decline of the oil sector,
Nigeria-s balance of payments and fiscal situation can be expected to tighten
over time.  Even with a relatively moderate rise in imports, large current
account deficits can be expected to reappear towards the end of the 1980s,
leading to a deterioration in the balance of payments in the 1990s, when
maintenance of steady economic growth will become increasingly difficult.
Budgetary deficits could appear even sooner, threatening domestic economic
stability. Future dramatic increases in the oil price way postpone the
financial difficulties, but this is a risky basis for formulating a long-term
growth strategy.
14.       In order that dependence on imports may decline and non-oil exports
may gradually begin to replace oil exports, projections suggest that Nigeria
has roughly ten years to make the necessary structural adjustments. Accelera-
ting growth in the agricultural sector - which grew by only 1 percent a year in
the 1970s - will be the most difficult task. The growth of the other sectors
of the economy, such as power, transport, and construction, should receive its
impulse primarily from commodity production. The expected rapid increase in
population and labor force (estimated at over 3 percent a year) necessitates
maintaining a fairly high rate of economic growth over the next two decades.
15.       The Government of Nigeria is committed to achieving a balanced and
sustainable economic growth path. The Outline of the Fourth National Develop-
ment Plan indicates that, while the unfinished projects from the Third Plan
period would be speedily completed, greater emphasis will be placed on sti-
mulating agricultural production. A target of food self-sufficiency by 1985
has been set, and a Food Production Plan has just been completed. It sets out
the Government's agricultural strategy over the coming five years, which is
centered on raising the productivity of smallholders. While the target is
ambitious, and may not be achieved within the plan period, it is indicative of
the high priority that is being attached to this sector. There is likely to
be strong emphasis again on education, as in the past, but the expected in-
clusion of a large low-cost housing program would be a new departure. Given
the great improvement in Nigeria's financial prospects, and assuming an active
private sector, domestic investment is expected to be maintained at a high
level. This should permit the economy to grow at around 5 percent a year--
more than 6 percent for non-oil GDP--with fair potential for employment
generation.
16.       The availability of skilled manpower will remain a major constraint
on economic development over the coming years. Although the Government has
given high priority to manpower development, there are still severe shortages
in several lines of activity. The dependence on expatriates is particularly
high in scientific and technical occupations. The demand for middle-level
skills is expected to rise rapidly with an increasing emphasis in government
programs on poverty alleviation, education, and preventive health. In the
short-term, expatriates may alleviate some of these shortages, but ultimately
the solution lies in improving the quality and coverage of education and
expansion of pre-service and in-service training programs.



- 5-
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
17.       Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted to US$7
billion at the end of 1980. A limited amount of borrowing on commercial terms
is expected to continue. However, by the mid-1980s, when the debt service on
currently contracted loans will peak, payments will still amount to no more
than 5 percent of export earnings. The World Bank's share in total debt
outstanding amounts to about 15 percent. Given the relatively low level of
external indebtedness, the Government's generally cautious approach to external
borrowing, and the favorable prospects for oil, the debt service is likely to
remain around 5 percent through 1990. Under the circumstances, Nigeria is
creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
18.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1981 amounted
to US$1408.5 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1981 was US$729.8 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$678.7 million. Transport, power and water supply
together account for about 50 percent of total commitments; agriculture for
about 31 percent (most of which was committed in the last six fiscal years);
and education, industry, urban and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the
remaining 19 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY79 were
about US$60 million, and US$55 million in FY80, but are expected to increase
in the coming years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria.
There have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. IFC has made five loans to borrowers totalling US$17.4
million, and six equity investments totalling US$5.4 million. Of these
amounts, US$4.2 million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments,
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular em-
phasis on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives
are in consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third
Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor.
20.       In view of the interest which Nigeria has expressed in greater
Bank involvement, an expanded Bank lending program has been initiated.
In developing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a central objective
is to encourage the shift (already discernable in the Federal Government's
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Reports
for the Bauchi State and Kano Agricultura1 Development Project approved
bY the Board on April 30, 1981.



- 6 -
investment programming) away from the massive and diffused infrastructure
investment, which characterized the two or three years following the oil
boom of 1973/74, towards a more discriminating support for growth in the
commodity producing sectors. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the inci-
dence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively
pursued in recent agricultural projects, including the Bauchi State and Kano
Agricultural Development Projects approved by the Executive Directors on April
30, 1981, which benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural
lending of this kind would continue to figure prominently in the future
lending program. A third objective of Bank lending is to support the Federal
Government's efforts to diversify the economy, and reduce the excessive
dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue.
Agricultural lending, in particular, would include strengthening the poten-
tial for export crops such as cocoa.
21.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a significant contribution in power, water supply, and highway maintenance.
Further project identification work is under way in these sectors. Similarly,
there is a strong case for continued lending for education. In this context,
it is proposed that vocational, technical, and teacher training be given
special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and state
governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will
continue to be addressed through a number of urban development projects,
along the lines of the ongoing project in Bauchi State, focussed on the needs
of the urban poor. The Bank is also considering a request from the Federal
Government to assist in overcoming the country's health problems. A sectoral
distribution of lending along these lines would be in keeping with the need to
generate employment, and would also support the Federal Government's aim of
mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues to alleviate poverty and improve the
overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture continues to play an important role in the Nigerian
economy despite the prominence of the petroleum sector. Approximately 60
percent of Nigeria's population is dependent upon agriculture for its
principal source of employment and income. Value added by agriculture
accounts for almost one-quarter of GDP, and almost 40 percent if petroleum
production is excluded. However, production has fluctuated significantly
from year to year, and there was hardly any real growth of value added
during the period 1970-78. At the same time, food prices rose precipitously
as demand outstripped supply. Yet, this sector must continue to play a key
role in the economy both as an employer and as the source of food for the
rapidly growing urban population.



- 7 -
23.       Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of small-
holders, with the typical unit being a family farm of 2-4 hectares. Little
use is made of modern inputs, such as fertilizer and improved seeas, or of
mechanized techniques. As a result, yields are very low, and in some cases
have even declined because of deteriorating soil fertility.  The incidence of
rural poverty is high, and in some areas, malnutrition is a serious problem.
Although there is some cultivation of cash crops--oil palm, cocoa and other
trees in the south and groundnuts and cotton in the north--almost every farm
family grows some of its food requirements. Only a relatively small propor-
tion of these food crops enters commercial trade for shipment to other areas,
mainly to the urban centers and food deficit areas of the south.
24.       Rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising stan-
dards of education, both of which contrast sharply with the poor returns to
labor and drudgery of traditional agriculture, have encouraged the drift of
young people away from rural areas. In the long run, a prosperous agricultural
sector capable of reducing this drift can be achieved only through the appli-
cation of advanced farming techniques that would provide significant increases
in income per man-day.
Performance, Policies, and Constraints
25.       Successive governments have emphasized the need to improve
performance in the agricultural sector. In the Third National Development
Plan, US$4.8 billion was earmarked for agriculture. Although the Plan's target
growth rate for agriculture was set at 5 percent per annum, the estimated
actual rate did not exceed 1 percent. Annual imports of food rose from about
US$300 million in 1974 to about US$1,300 million in 1979, and agricultural
exports declined steadily. If this trend were to continue, it coula result
in a food deficit in 1990 of 11 million tons (cereal equivalent), or about
40 percent of demand.
26.       The disappointing performance of the agricultural sector can be
attributed in large part to past policies which placed strong emphasis
on isolated large-scale irrigation and government-run, intensively mechanizea
production schemes with generally very disappointing production results. At
the same time, little was done to develop essential support services aimed at
the farming community as a whole. Despite the declared intentions in the
Plan, smallholders, who produce 90 percent of total agricultural output, were
not the principal focus of the agricultural strategy. The few government-
sponsored programs for the development of smallholder agriculture have
suffered from poor management, a shortage of funds, or from being stretched
too thinly in order to cover all states. The Bank-supported agricultural
development projects (ADPs) were the only ones succeeding in achieving sig-
nificant advances in smallholder agriculture, particularly because of their
contribution to overcoming the lack of effective agricultural support services.
27.       The lack of support services has been one of the principal con-
straints to the development of the sector. The transport of produce is
hampered by a lack of feeder roads. Many farmers have to travel long distances
to obtain fertilizers and other basic farm inputs which, in many cases, are



- 8 -
supplied only irregularly. Consequently, even with the prevailing high levels
of subsidies on farm inputs, farm production has not increased significantly,
and has actually declined in some areas. There has also been inadequate
support for essential farm credit and crop marketing services. Extension
services are generally deficient, and the new technologies that are available
are not reaching farmers in remote rural areas. In this respect, a greater
effort is also required, particularly by the agricultural research institu-
tions, to generate simple technologies and innovations, and adapt them to the
diverse socio-ecological conditions of Nigeria.
28.        Shortcomings in the efficiency of commercial support services
to agriculture have also constrained growth. Agricultural supply services
remain almost entirely in the hands of the public sector, which neither has
the experience nor the administrative capability to provide those services.
Given the size of Nigeria's massive development program, the Government should
divest itself progressively of responsibilities for marketing farm inputs,
because this function can be handled more efficiently by private enterprise.
It is encouraging that the FPP favors preparing the way for greater participa-
tion of the private sector in agricultural supply services.
29.        The Government-s policy of maintaining a relatively fixed exchange
rate during a period of domestic inflation has adversely affected the price
competitiveness of some domestic farm produce compared to imported foodstuffs,
and the policy of subsidizing farm inputs has not succeeded in compensating
fully for this handicap. In an effort to protect domestic producers from an
influx of imported farm products, the Government has placed quantitative
restrictions and even outright bans on the import of some commodities. The
strategic objective has been to admit imports only to the extent that domestic
production falls short of demand. However, this is a difficult policy to
administer in practice, and it has not been able to prevent cross substitution
by consumers between traditional indigenous foods such as cassava and yam on
the one hand and imported foods such as wheat on the other.
30.        Government policies for the subsidization of farm inputs have
not always worked to the advantage of the farmers and, in the case of ferti-
izers, have served to remove the incentive for private sector participation in
the distribution system, thereby creating problems of availability. The Bank
has consistently urged for a lower level of subsidy in the interest of effi-
ciency and equality. It is therefore encouraging to note that the Federal
Government is now considering a lower level of subsidization. However, for
political reasons, it is likely to adopt a cautious approach to the gradual
phasing out of input subsidies.
31.        From the point of view of availability at the farm gate, procedures
for the timely international procurement of fertilizer and for the financing
of the subsidy may be even more important than the level of subsidy itself.
Since the prevailing institutional arrangements for the procurement of ferti-
lizer have proved unsatisfactory, the Federal Government has now decided to
establish a commercially-operated public company for the procurement and
distribution of fertilizer.



-9-
Food Production Plan
32.       Most of the impediments to agricultural development are now being
addressed by the new Government. Upon assuming office in October 1979, the
Government announced that it would give high priority to agriculture with
the objective of eliminating Nigeria's dependence upon food imports by
the mid-1980s. In recommending a plan of action for achieving this objective,
the Government established a food strategies commission in which the Bank
participated. A final report entitled "The Green Revolution: A Food Produc-
tion Plan for Nigeria" was published in May 1980, and the principal recommen-
dations have been accepted by the Government as part of its Fourth National
Development Plan (1981-85).
33.       The Food Production Plan (FPP) acknowledges that the target of
eliminating Nigeria-s dependence upon food imports by 1985 is probably
over-ambitious. It recommends the adoption of a 3-4 percent annual growth
target as the maximum that can be applied realistically to the agricultural
sector. It is particularly noteworthy that, in weighing the alternative
strategies of large-scale mechanization against a discerning support for
smallholder agriculture, the FPP comes down squarely in favor of the latter.
To supplement the program of Bank-supported ADPs, the FPP proposes the imme-
diate implementation of a concurrent smallholder program for those areas not
yet covered by ADPs. The proposed supplementary Accelerated Development Area
(ADA) program would contain most key elements of the ADP concept, but in a
less intensive package and with lower managerial demands. It would directly
address the main constraints to agricultural development by (i) improving
extension services; (ii) supplying fertilizer, seeds, and other farm inputs;
and (iii) improving infrastructure, including the construction of on-farm
storage facilities and 25,000 km of feeder roads. ADAs would be implemented
simultaneously in the 15 states not covered by state-wide ADPs, but phased
within each state.
34.        The Federal Government is committed to start program implementation
in 1981. Three specific state ADA programs have already been prepared, and
another seven are under preparation. An ADA handbook, to serve as a guide for
ADA development in other states, has also been prepared. The total program is
expected to cost about US$1.5 billion over the period 1981-85, and would be
financed jointly by the federal and participating state governments, with
federal support equal to 25 percent of program costs.
Implementing Agencies
35.       Implementation of the ADA program will be the responsibility of
the states. However, the Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD), which
was established in 1977 as a technical department of the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture to implement the country's rural development program, will have to
provide critical assistance. During the first years of its existence, FDRD's
role was confined mainly to overseeing the federal interest in Bank-assisted
ADPs. It was also responsible for monitoring and evaluation, through the
Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation, and Planning Unit (APMEPU) in
Kaduna. APMEPU was established in 1975 under the Funtua ADP (Loan 1092-UNI)



- 10 -
to provide feedback to Funtua, Gusau, and Gombe ADP management on issues of
project evaluation, design, implementation, and impact. Later, under the
Ayangba ADP (Loan 1455-UNI), the geographic scope and functions of APMEPU
were expanded and, moreover, planning functions added. APMEPU now has a
staff of 18 professionals, 15 technicians, and support staff, operating five
sections--evaluation and monitoring, training, agronomy, planning, and admini-
stration and finance--and serving nine ADPs. Since its inception, the cost
of operating APMEPU is estimated at N3.7 million, representing 1.4 percent
of the total cost of Bank-assisted projects; the Bank has financed the
foreign exchange cost of APMEPU's operations estimated at US$2.1 million.
36.       In its almost five years of operation, APMEPU has developed into
an effective evaluation unit. It has now become a prime source of farm,
household, and market data, which have been of considerable value in identify-
ing and preparing second-generation state-wide ADPs. Although unreliable data
processing arrangements and lack of analytical capacity have sometimes resul-
ted in serious delays in evaluation reports, this has been improving as
survey procedures and designs have been simplified and standardized. However,
recently, as a result of the limited number of professional staff and the
increasing number of ADPs, APMEPU has become seriously constrained in its
evaluation capacity. In addition, because of its emphasis on survey and
evaluation work, APMEPU has always been less successful in its other support
activities,such as monitoring; coordinating agronomic advice, preparing crop
recommendations, liaising with commercial and research institutions, supplying
expertise to the project evaluation units, and planning and supervising
research trials; management, promotional, technical, and survey training; and
project identification, preparation, and planning.
37.       It is evident that, even without the requirements of the ADA program,
APMEPU will have to be strengthened if it is to continue as an effective
institution. With the need to assist in implementing the ADA program, the
strengthening of FDRD/APMEPU has become imperative. To ensure the successful
implementation of the FPP, the number of adequately trained and experienced
staff will have to be significantly increased and the FDRD/APMEPU organiza-
tional structure revised. Similarly, some additional support programs of
critical importance to the success of the FPP will have to be strengthened.
These include marketing of food grains, provision of agricultural credit, and
livestock development, particularly integration of livestock with arable
farming and cattle fattening. The Bank has also been asked by the Federal
Government to provide assistance in most of these critical areas.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
38.       Agriculture forms the core of the Bank's lending to Nigeria:
since 1974, 21 loans for agriculture totalling US$707 million have been
approved, and loans to this sector constitute almost half of the proposed
lending program for FY1981-85. The central objective of Bank involvement in
the sector has been to increase food production, and thereby raise the incomes
of rural dwellers, who are amongst the poorest in Nigeria. To this end, a
major effort has been made to develop the abilities of agencies at all levels
of Government to prepare and implement agricultural projects. The Bank has



- 11 -
also sought to encourage the adoption by Government of policies on input
subsidies, interest rates, and producer pricing that are conducive to attaining
the sector's development goals.
39.       Bank-supported projects in this sector fall into three broad groups.
There have been eight loans for the development of specific crops, forestry,
and livestock. One loan has been made for the establishment of an agricultural
management training institute. The third group consists of 11 projects for
the comprehensive agricultural development of target areas. The first three
ADPs--Funtua, Gusau, and Gombe--are all but completed. They have demonstrated
the effectiveness of an integrated services package in increasing farm output
and farmers' incomes. It is a measure of the success of these projects that
the Federal Government is basing its Green Revolution upon a program of support
for smallholder farming structured broadly along similar lines to the approach
adopted by the ADPs.
40.       The Government has opted for a phased approach in initiating ADPs in
all of the 19 states of Nigeria, and the proposed ADA program is therefore
designed to improve agricultural performance in those areas not covered by
ADPs over the short- to medium-term. The Bank fully endorses this program.
Bank staff has assisted the Government in developing an appropriate strategy,
but the Government requires additional assistance to establish a proper
organizational framework for the implementation of the FPP. The proposed
project would offer the Government the opportunity of making a major impact on
the country-s agricultural performance; it would moreover allow the Government
to derive maximum benefits from a necessarily limited program of Bank support.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project originated in a request from the Federal Government
to the Bank to assist in preparing a food production plan as part of the
Fourth National Development Plan. Implementation of the plan would require a
substantial amount of external assistance, and the Bank was asked to assist in
strengthening the management and organizational structure of the agricultural
sector. The project was appraised by the Bank in May 1980, and the staff
appraisal report (3207b-UNI) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations were held with the Nigerian authorities at the Bank
in March 1981. Supplementary data on the project is to be found in Annex III.
Project Objective
42.       The primary objective of the project would be to establish an admin-
istrative structure and organization able to coordinate the development and
implementation of the Government-s Food Production Plan (FPP) over the short
to medium term. Proper implementation of the plan would greatly alleviate the
country's increasingly serious food deficit situation. A secondary objective
would be to provide support to some key institutions to improve their services
to the farming community, thus guaranteeing the success of the FPP.



- 12 -
Project Description and Implementation
43.        The project would consist of technical assistance and related
logistical support aimed at strengthening the ADP and ADA project support
capability of FDRD and related agencies. It would:
(i) improve and expand federal evaluation and policy-making capability
through the reorganization of and additional support for APMEPU;
(ii) reinforce federal monitoring, agronomic, training, and planning
services and provide additional federal support services through the
establishment of one central and four regional support units; and
(iii) strengthen federal grains marketing, agricultural credit, and live-
stock development support services , and possibly other support
services concerning the marketing of commodities and farm input
procurement and distribution, through staff support for the respon-
sible agencies.
44.         APMEPU would be restructured to fully meet the evaluation needs
of both the ADP and the ADA programs and to enable it to critically analyze
evaluation data as a policy input for future agricultural development. It
would be divested of its agronomic, extension training, and planning func-
tions, and would become a specialized unit focussing primarily on the monitor-
ing and evaluation of agricultural production, farm management, and other
socio-economic parameters; it would link into a network of project-based
monitoring and evaluation units. The restructured APMEPU would continue to
provide methodological and analytical support to the project units, training
of the project evaluation officers, and quality control of data generation.
It would also design and, in conjunction with ADA/ADP staff, execute surveys
to evaluate and monitor the agricultural impact of project actions and carry
out data processing and survey analysis. More detailed evaluation and research
studies would be carried out by universities and short-term consultants with
APMEPU assistance.
45.        To assist APMEPU, the project would provide technical assistance
in project evaluation, training, and data processing; infrastructure, vehicles,
and equipment; and a minicomputer-based data processing facility. Given the
increasing scope and the highly technical nature of APMEPU's evaluation work,
the unit would require the services of an additional 14 evaluation, training,
and data processing specialists, who would be recruited under the project for
three years on average.
46.        Since APMEPU would  focus on evaluation and policy analysis, the
necessary monitoring, agronomic, extension training, and planning services for
the increasing number of ADPs and the ADA program would be provided by new
support units under the aegis of FDRD. Four Federal Agricultural Support
Units (FASUs) would be established in Kaduna, Ibadan, Enugu, and Jos, corre-
sponding to Nigeria's major agro-ecological zones. To ensure coordination and



- 13 -
oversee common objectives and procedures among the FASUs, and to further the
needs of the FPP at the national level, the Government would also establish a
Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) in Ibadan. 1/
47.       These new units would provide a strong federal supervisory basis for
monitoring and supporting the physical implementation of the FPP, specifically
the progress of the ADPs and the ADA program. The FASUs would also provide the
processing mechanism for release of federal grants to the states. Their
assessment would be made on the basis of quarterly progress reports and
regular visits to the states. FDRD has established draft guidelines for ADA
participation by the states. They would be finalized as a condition of
effectiveness of the Loan (Sections 3.03 and 6.01(a) of the Loan Agreement),
and would include:
- criteria for preparation by the states of ADA projects with
assistance from the responsible FASU;
- establishment of an organization, staffing, and training plan
for ADA implementation acceptable to the FASU;
- establishment of separate ADA accounts and arrangements for
annual audit of these accounts; and
- the right for FASU to monitor the implementation of the ADA
program, including the financial disbursements.
48.        Each FASU would comprise five sections:  planning, agronomy and
extension training, management information, rural infrastructure, and agro-
industrial development. The planning section would be responsible for assisting
states in identifying and planning new ADPs and ADAs. The agronomy and exten-
sion training section would be responsible primarily for providing technical
advice related to crops, including preparation of formal annual crop recommen-
dations, and assistance in developing ADP/ADA staff and farmer training
courses. An important function of this section would be liaison with research
institutes to ensure that research programs would be geared directly to
solving problems at field level. The management information section would
monitor the physical progress and related resource use of the ADPs and ADAs.
It would liaise closely with APMEPU, which would provide technical guidance
and data processing facilities. FACU would design a standardized financial
and physical monitoring system for key project activities. The rural infra-
structure section would serve primarily the needs of the ADP/ADA feeder road
program, assisting states in the planning and subsequent supervision of ADA
feeder roads. Finally, the agroindustrial development section would be
responsible for determining the need for processing and storage facilities
and the manufacture of simple farm implements, and also for identifying
entrepreneurs willing and able to initiate small-scale rural industries.
1/   FACU would move to Abuja, the new federal capital, as soon as
logistically and organizationally warranted.



- 14 -
49.       The four FASUs would have a large degree of autonomy within their
respective areas of influence, and would consult with FACU, as the coordinat-
ing unit, only on matters of general policy, common operating procedures,
and annual budgetary approval. FACU would maintain close links with other
federal or national organizations such as the Federal Ministry of Science and
Technology, the agro-allied division of the Federal Ministry of Industries,
the national and international research institutes, the proposed national
fertilizer marketing company (para. 31), the National Seed Service, and the
relevant departments of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. FACU would,
apart from providing an important flow of information to high-level government
officials and committees, also have a prime role in monitoring the performance
of project-financed consultants and in ensuring that training programs for
Nigerians are correctly formulated and implemented. In addition, FACU would
assist the states in the planning and implementation of rural water programs
to provide low-cost potable water to communities not normally serviced by the
state water boards, as well as provide initiatives in low-cost irrigation
systems, particularly pumps.
50.       The project would provide the FACU and FASUs with the requisite
technical assistance, infrastructure, vehicles, and equipment. Since the
units' main function would be to provide technical advice to the states,
it would be important that they be staffed by highly trained and experienced
personnel. Therefore, the project would provide for the recruitment of 64 key
staff (for the FACU a program coordinator and 16 specialists and for each
of the four FASUs a chief of unit and 10-12 specialists) for three years on
average.
51.       The success of the FPP would also depend upon the efficient opera-
tion of a number of additional agencies providing support services of critical
importance for the ADP/ADA programs. The Nigerian Grains Board (NGB) has
not performed satisfactorily since its inception in 1978. Its ineffectiveness
has contributed, amongst other things, to some temporary maize marketing
problems experienced by Bank-assisted ADPs. During 1980, NGB recruited, with
the support of the Bank under the Ilorin ADP (Loan 1668-UNI), a small group
of short-term specialists to assist in reorganizing NGB's management and
operations as well as in preparing a future program of work and investments.
Already it is clear that major management and operational changes are required,
and that NGB will require further specialist assistance. The project would
therefore provide a team of five specialists for three years. The Nigerian
Agricultural and Cooperative Bank (NACB) was established in 1974, but has not
performed satisfactorily, more recently particularly because of management
problems. Nevertheless, NACB's role will be of critical importance for the
success of the FPP as farmers increase production and require greater credit
inputs.  A recent FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission recommended major
institutional strengthening, including man-power assistance, as part of a
possible national agricultural credit project. A feasibility study is being
prepared. However, in the meantime, NACB will require the services of a team
of five experts for three years to provide some initial support in key areas
and to assist in the preparation of the proposed credit project. The Livestock
Project Unit (LPU) was established under the Livestock Project (Loan 1091-UNI)
in 1975. Initially, the project did not operate effectively. However, in



- 15 -
1979, a consultant firm took over management, and LPU and the livestock
programs that it coordinates are now much improved. AS the only source of
technical assistance to the livestock sector available to the states, LPU will
be of particular importance to assist farmers in integrating livestock with
arable farming under the FPP. Currently, the Government and the bank are
reviewing the long-term investment needs of the livestock industry.  Until a
new project is prepared, however, it is important that the current staffing of
LPU is maintained. The project would therefore provide for the services of
10 specialists for a further two years. The project would also provide for
15 man-years of technical assistance to other institutions of vital importance
to the implementation of the FPP, such as other marketing boards and institu-
tions concerned with the procurement and marketing of farm inputs.
Recruitment and Training Procedures
52.       The successful implementation of the FPP would depend upon proper
staffing of the implementing agencies. The Fourth National Development Plan
squarely faces and recognizes the serious shortage in Nigeria of manpower with
the experience and capability necessary to implement the proposed pro6ram.
Consequently, as detailed in the foregoing paragraphs, the project would
provide about 318 man-years of internationally recruited specialist assistance
at an estimated cost of about US58,000 per man-month (including salaries,
allowances, external travel, company fees, and overheads).
53.       Until recently, the Bank's Agricultural Projects Management Unit tor
West Africa (APMU) assisted both the Federal and state governments in the
selection, recruitment, and management of all international staff. However,
the increasing number of agricultural projects in Nigeria and elsewhere made
it difficult if not impossible for APMU to continiue mobilizing high-quality
staff for all Bank-assisted projects. When properly selected and supervised,
consultant firms have performed very satisfactorily on Bank-assisted projects
in Nigeria. The use of these and similar firms would now be extended to
projects associated with the FPP. Moreover, the Bank has been encouraging
qualified Nigerian and expatriate firms jointly to provide management services,
and from our first experience the possibilities appear encouraging.
54.       In the case of this project, and in view of the need for the
immediate hiring of some key staff, recruitment would be through various
channels. APMEPU would recruit its own staff either individually or through
consultant firms; APMU would only assist if necessary. APMU would assist in
the recruitment of staff for FACU, but staff for the FASUs, NGB, NACB, LPU,
and any other agencies receiving technical assistance under the project
would have to be recruited through consultant firms. Key staff, whether
recruited as individuals or employed by consultant firms, would have quali-
fications, experience, and terms of reference acceptable to thLe Bank. The
recruitment of consultant firms would be in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Already, the Head of FACU has been recruited and, on the basis of an agreed
short-list, consultant firms have been invited to submit proposals for the
management of the FASUs. The consultants to NGB and LPU are also in post, and
are satisfactory to the Government and the Bank.



- 16 -
55.       Although the assistance provided under the project would have short-
term objectives to support implementation of the Food Plan, the internationally-
recruited experts provided to the implementing agencies would have specific
responsibilities for training Nigerians for the long-term operations of the
institutions.  Fairly senior and experienced staff would be recruited, and
would receive local, on-the-job and overseas training under programs to be
developed by FACU with the help of special training consultants.  FACU moni-
toring would ensure that these training objectives were addressed and carried
through.  The specifics of the training programs would be developed by FACU to
complement the curricula now being designed by the Agricultural and Rural
Management Training Institute (ARMTI), established under Loan 1719-UNI, and
already in operation at existing training institutions in Nigeria. Management
trainers in the FASUs and at FACU would develop in-service training and staff
development programs, and would identify suitable external courses, in Nigeria
and overseas.  A special allocation of 60 man-months of consultants would
assist in developing courses for middle-level technologists.  FACU-s cost
estimates also contain US$600,000 for overseas training of Nigerian personnel.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       Total cost for the project period 1981-85 are estimated at US$120.1
million (including taxes and duties of US$17.7 million) of which the foreign
exchange component would amount to US$47 million or 39 percent. A breakdown
of costs by major categories is given in the Loan and Project Sumnmry.  Allow-
ance has been made for physical contingencies equal to 5 percent of base costs
for all items.  Price contingencies for local construction and operating costs
allow for an annual rate of inflation of 15 percent except for local salaries
and allowances which are calculated at 10 percent. Price contingencies for
foreign costs are estimated at 9 percent for 1981, 8.5 percent for 1982, and
7.5 percent thereafter. On this basis, total contingencies are estimated at
21 percent of base costs.
57.       The proposed loan of US$47 million to the Federal Government would
finance 42 percent of total project cost, net of taxes and duties, and would
be equivalent to the full foreign exchange cost of the project. The Federal
Government would finance the remaining project cost of US$73.1 million.
58.       To ensure the timely and adequate provision of counterpart funding,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that: a) as a condition of loan
effectiveness, commercial bank accounts be opened for APMEPU and FACU with
initial deposits of NO.5 million and Nl.O million, respectively; b) Bank reim-
bursements be made directly to the APMEPU and FACU bank accounts; c) APNEPU
and FACU (which would act also on behalf of the FASUs) submit to FDRD and the
Bank, at least three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, an
annual work program and budget proposals; d) the Federal Government provide
its quarterly contributions to the project in advance in accordance with the
approved annual budgets; e) APMEPU, FACU, and FASU audited accounts be submit-
ted to the Bank within four months after each fiscal year. FACU would monitor
the manpower input by consultants to NGB, NACB, LPU, and any other agencies
receiving technical assistance under the project, and would process related
disbursement applications.  These understandings, which follow closely those



- 17 -
reached with the Nigerian authorities in the case of recent Bank-assisted
ADPs, are reflected in Sections 3.08, 3.09, 3.10, 4.02, and 6.01(b) of the
Loan Agreement.
Procurement
59.       Contracts for vehicles and equipment (including a mini-computer),
amounting to US$200,000 or more, would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local competi-
tive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
would be employed for contracts between US$60,000 and US$200,000. For con-
tracts of US$60,000 and less, local competitive shopping would be employed.
Domestically manufactured goods procured through ICB would be allowed a
15 percent preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for
purposes of bid evaluation. The aggregate cost of the above items of procure-
ment is estimated at about US$12 million, of which about US$7 million would be
expected to be procured locally.  Experience with ADP projects has shown that
contracts for buildings are not generally attractive to foreign contractors
because of the small size of individual contracts, competitiveness of local
contractors, and the dispersed location of the works; contracts of less than
US$1 million would therefore be awarded on the basis of LCB in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The aggregate cost of buildings is
estimated at about US$3.5 million, of which US$2.1 million would De expected
to be contracted locally. The services of consultants and internationally
recruited staff, valued at about US$38 million, would be obtained on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
60.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1981-85.
Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange expendi-
tures on vehicles, equipment, components, and spare parts; where items are
procured locally, disbursement would be made against 55 percent of total
expenditure. For buildings, disbursement would be made against 35 percent of
total expenditures, and for overseas training, salaries and allowances of
internationally recruited staff, consultant services, and studies against 100
percent of total expenditure. On this basis, total disbursements are esti-
mated at US$6.2 million against vehicles, equipment, components, and spare
parts, US$1.1 million against buildings, and US$35.0 million against interna-
tionally recruited staff, consultants, overseas training, and studies. An
additional provision of US$4.7 million has been made on an unallocated basis.
Provision has been made for up to US$600,000 of retroactive financing of key
internationally-recruited staff to assist in project start-up activities.
Project Benefits
61.       The benefits of a technical assistance project are nearly impossible
to quantify in financial or economic terms, and no economic rate of return has
been calculated. However, this project would contribute to establishing a
proper administrative framework and organization for agricultural development,
and support critical and related agricultural support institutions, a sine



- 18 -
qua non for the success of Nigeria's FPP for the period 1981-85. The effi-
cient implementation of the FPP would contribute substantially to raising
the country's agricultural output and rural income.
62.      An improvement in the performance of agriculture is certainly
called for. In 1980, Nigeria imported roughly the equivalent of 2.6 million
tons of grain at an estimated cost of US$800 million. If output performance
does not improve, imports will more than double by 1985. The FPP is expected
to alleviate this development. Nigeria would still be a net importer of
food in 1985, but the trend of growing dependency on imports would be
reversed and, in fact, imports would be a shrinking proportion of total
consumption.
63.       Most of the FPP beneficiaries would be smallholder farmers, and
the FPP would contribute to raising their incomes and narrowing the income
gap between rural and urban areas in the country. In addition, the FPP is
expected to yield important non-quantifiable benefits, including from its
feeder road component improved access to health, education, and social
services for the rural population.
64.       Administrative and organizational improvements, resulting from the
technical assistance project, would also facilitate future cooperation
between Nigeria and the Bank in the field of agricultural development. It
is anticipated that many states will wish to upgrade ADA programs to ADPs
with the assistance of the Bank.  If the ADA program is well established,
the upgrading would require mainly adding the advanced service package to the
already functioning basic service package, which would result in substantial
time and cost savings. Well-functioning sector institutions would also allow
Nigeria and the Bank to consider the possibility of moving their cooperation
gradually from a project by project to a sector approach.
Project Risk
65.       Like all projects with a sizeable expatriate input, there is a
certain risk that local administrators,at both federal and state levels,
will not "identify" with the project and its objectives. However, taking
into account the Government's strong commitment to alleviate its food shortage
by all possible means, our satisfactory experience with the ADPs and APMEPU,
and because of the training programs aimed at phasing out the expatriate input
within the shortest possible time, this risk is considered acceptable. In
this respect, the project is similar to the Bauchi and Kano ADPs, which were
approved by the Executive Directors on April 30,1981, and which also provide
for the services of expatriate experts.  The Government is aware that, in order
to substantially improve agricultural performance in the short-run, it will
have to overcome the serious shortage of qualified and experienced admini-
strators and technicians through international recruitment.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III, including the following conditions of effectiveness of the
loan (listed in Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement):
-    technical guidelines for the states to follow in preparing
ADA proposals be formally issued; and
-    commercial bank accounts be opened for APMEPU and FACU with
initial deposits of NO.5 million and Nl.O million, respec-
tively.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 20-                                     AM= I
Page 1 of 5
NIGCRIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (VRITEMD AVEWGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                       - __DST R_______ZSTltlATt)
TOTAL            923.8
AGRICULTURAL     448.2                               MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCCIE           fIfDDLE 7nCE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUrT OF SAEARA  LATIM AfftICA 6 CARINM
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 160.0       250.0    670.0                868.0                  1562.9
VAERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     34.0        52.0     106.0                699.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    51. 6       66.2      80.6
URJAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.1        16.4      19.5                28.9                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    153.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      425.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K1.                      56.0         72.0     88.0                 61. 7                   28.1
PER SQ. IM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0       152.0    181.0                126.0                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERrENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.4       46.6      47.2                 45.5                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.3        51.0      50.3                 51. 6                   54. 7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.3         2.4       2.4                  2.8                     3.9
POPULATION (EOWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.5      2.5                  2. 7                    2. 7
URBAN                             4.8         4. 7      4.7                  4. 9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    52.0        51.0      50.0                 46.8                    34.8
CRUDE DEATHI RATE (PER THOUSAND)    25.0        21. 0     18.0                16.4                     8. 9
GROSS REPRC6UCTION RATE              ..         3. 3       3.4                 3.2                     2.5
FMILY PIANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         7. 6     33. 2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOCD PROIDUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0       102.0      88.0                 94.0                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREUENTS)                  79.0        82.0      82.0                 92.7                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         43.0        44.0      45.0                 53.0                    65.6
OF WHICH ANDIMAL AND PULSE      11.0        10.0      11.0                15.6                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    38.0        33.0      24.0                 21.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   39.0        44.0      48.0                 50.1                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..        154.0/      ..                   ..                    61L5
ACCESS TO SAFE WVIER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                 31.0                    65.9
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                 66.8                    80.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    44.0
ACCESS TO tXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENIT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    62.3
URBAN                                                                                               79.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN        56895.0    24664.0  15803.0                14508.2                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NUISING PERSON    6020. 0jd    5072.0   4028.0               3279.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2765.0/e   2220.0   1409.0                 1141.5                   480.3
URBAN                              ..       400.0
RURAL                              ..     18450.0
JUMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                                ..               ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URRAN                              ..          ..       4.7
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NIJ4BER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             3.0          .        2. 2
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF UWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            81.0          ..
URBAN                            81.3          ..      42.4
RURAL                              ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                        Page 2 of 5
N_ Gr.RIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHeET
'. :GEP IA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (NEIGNTeD AVE,AEIS
- MOST RECENT E
MtOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCCIE
196G  /b    1970 /b EST2IATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OP SARABA  LATIS  AMB21CA & CAUIRDU
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLUIENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 36.0         34.0      42.0                   61. 7                    99. 7
MALE                  46.0        43.0       50.0                  69.2                     101.0
FEMALE                27.0        25.0       33.0                  51.4                      99.4
SECONDARY:   IOTAL                  4.0          6.0         ..                  20.6                     34.4
MALE                   6.0         8.0         ..                  29.2                      33.5
FEMALE                 1.0         4.0         ..                  14. 7                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   5. 0          8. 5       3. 8f                 7. 0                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.0         34.0       34.0                  36.6                     30 5
SECONDARY                          19.0         21.0       25.0                  24.3                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0          ..         ..                    ..                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0. 7         1. 0        ..                  38.8                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         23.0       79.0                  83.5                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0. 1         1.4        1.6                    ..                     84.2
NEiSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   8.0          5.0        9.0                  24.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        0. 5                  0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    21788.5       25988.8   30331. 1
FEKALE (PERCENT)                   41. 3        40.6      40.0                   38.1                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.8         62.1       56.0                  54.3                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.4         13.8      17.0                   17.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.7        40.5       39. 1                 38.8                     31.5
MALE                                  50.9        48.8       47.4                  48.4                     48.9
FEKALE                               34.8         32.4       31.0                  29.4                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.2        1.3                   1.3                      1.4
INCOAE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LCUEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCG(E
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UR8AN                                ..           ..     472.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     181.0                    ..                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCCN(E
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     402.0                    ..                     474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     134.0                    ..                     332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCaKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR8AN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                .             .        .                      ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-veighted aritlmetic seans.  Coverage of countriae
amorg the indicators depends on availability of date and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, bet_en 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1965-66 average,  /d 1963;  Le Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration;  /f Certain
fields of study previously classified under other second level education of vocational or technical
nature are no. reported under general education.
Most recent estiate of GNP per capita is for 1979, aLl other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
-22-                                                 ~~~~~Page 3of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Rotes   Although the data are dessfree sources generally judged the met authorittive and reliable, it should also be notd that they nay not be itete-
natinall  conerabe heon..of sheflath of atandardleed definition. and conce pt. aaed by doff.eet  onttstocllcin    h  date.  The data are, .....
thees,  seultodracu    oders of   agitude, Indicat  treds, ad oh.-set-ee  -terrin   ao                   fc r  btencutis
The rferene grop. ar  (I)the sam  coutr  grou  of the eabjeot toonty and (2)     ovr   ru  oth enmawbt bigheraerg  i-cm   than the ....ntry grop
of the subject oruntry  (encepe for "Capital Surplus Oil Inpertera" group there "Middle moosel North- Africa end Middle toet" teobhn...haoause. of stronger
-iuo ..to-c1tra    fntts . I  the referen    group data the averga  are popultion wighred stiteetic scen  for eac h indicator and shee  only rs.. at
leas  hal  ofcbscontreshn   group baa data for that indicator.  St_o  th. covrge of contIe  -engthe_indicator  depe-defon the  rotlability o
dat.o sctuifo.n, oation    bua   henerised nr relating aveags  of one tndioatnr to ae-her   Thes  avrga  r ny uafu  In coparing the  -1lue
of one Iniceror atuv i-  amog the country and refer.nca grops.
L11 REhu   (thoua-d sqite,)                                                                   -'elrintr  hnoan-truat                           d tt     by nane- o t cisgpity-
fTn1 -  ct-1  -ufac=      -s  -oprting, lad sr5 and inland   aea                               inema qualified fro   a dic-I school at univerity leve.
AScotu-1s-1 - ini-     t  of agricultural nina od temporaily orpPasnl                        oult        e  Norls  Person - Population dividd  byn.inhb   o f prantioag
fcr crpn, psaturee  narht and kitchen gardens or to lice fallen; 1917 data.                mal  ast fEmal  gradute  uss .       prcIca.oe.  n   aio   m.r.ns
Foultinpe  gsitl  ld - total 1      b.     adrra         oplto   (noral.
cop  ro fptycmill GNCu   et -ap-t   siae   -tcreteret7            pOe,cl-                 ubn   n  rurl)  itdedb   teresctive sibe                  -f epintmi bed
culavd by nam  conoersion method as Wur1d gao  Atla  (iNyy-9 basi); 10                       available in public asdprivate general ne   pnild     hospitalad 
1970,_ac   19l9dsu.                                                                          hbailitatirn ceters.  Hoapirai  are eteblieht.et  penmoanly ntaffed
by, at  age  one physician    feraibli -ets preiding principally  -netda.
ENEtRGT CcONSftTION Pit CAPITA - Annual conomtin  f  oariel enrg                  -1sa          cern. are nt included.  tRa-I hospitals, howevr, include baih ad mt-inal
sod lj#ignt, -p-tcoeua      . Iaoaa  gas and hydcr.  nula     _n etoetray  slat-              tantena no  pennanetly ataffed by a phytian (boo by a meitinlaseat
triciry) In kilogran  of coal equivalent per caPita; 1960, 1970, and i97g                     mares, midife, etc.) which  ffer in-patient ......ndatiw  and P..id
data,                                                                                         iiited conga of meical faoijiti_e   Fof statistical p_cp_s  or hnbopi-
tel  iniud  Se pincpa  general and epeialisd honpiuale, ad rura
PIPC'IATION ANDt VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                  ,r-I-    d..    d- -l                                                -
ftlPeclto.Mdter(ilns   An of July 1; i9hO. 1910, end 1978                               Adisin             dpinaita1 led - Total tumbar of addm.ison  to or discharges
Urhan Pratio (p.rrc..t of totall -  taut of urha  to total population;                                  Pt~dyd     yt      .             1o
different definitions of urban aem  may effect c.Wtmgraility of data                   HOUSINGc
aogcutie;19h0. l97l, and 1978 dara.                                                Arrm Sirso   nshl   rren                chueod    total. oban  sat   eal-
Porulati ton inYsa  1000 - Curren  popolto   pronoronsor  base.d on 190                     and their main  esie.  A hbrdr or ledger mey or mop not heto inluded in
tota  poynlation by age end see andtheir motality eAt fertility rae,                     the hauonhold for ettistica  Purposes,
Pro)actFn aaeesfor mortality ratee coprise of thres ls-sl                                ...n Aeg  numbe  of person  per rot-ttl  ura.sd rura  - Avera.ge  im
ing  .ireP:ctuncy at bicub ioctsaing eithconr'  fern .pita income                        hr of            P.rsn  pr co  on inal  urban,tand truralenopind   nst a
leve,  sod famlelilfe enp,ctan,Y stabilleing at 1715 Years, T.hn Par-                    doo1linge, enepectively.  D.tt11inge eac1ude oct-permanet stueraad
macer  fo   ftrIlityrte als  have thr.e 1-1el  a...n.dnln  i-nocpied parts,
fertility o.ccoding to incom  level and pst fatly PleanigPerIformace-                  Moses to El-trricity  Irernent of  tensl-ttal, urban. and rural -
lch contyis than aeigoed oeof those nine ocmhirtioes of mortlity                       ConvatinaI ~dt11ingn with electricity toLivn   quar-ter  as           _rotags
an Mfriluyty trant  for projection POrPPO5                                             of total, urban, and rura  dwellings respectively
Stationar y corulatio  -. In a enti-ny population thorn is no growh since
rho birth ratee equal tothe death rate.  sod also  h               tegsrrutirsr-     MUCAIt
manscusat.Tis Is ahievd only Afts- fe-ility' atsn dscline  t.                     undEnolet itaio
ot  -on   epae  itself amatly,  The etatto ry population siswserlee   falae t the PrIar  levn  an p-ratagas of repsotins
eninatnd onthe basin of the pro.j..tad charnttristics o:f the pupularIion                  pri.ar  ehonl.g-oge  poplations; norall  includes  hildtre   aged 6-il
in the Yea  2000, and the rats of d-Iie of fertIlItyPIt relc-Year  hot adjoted for different 1sngths of p.i-er  education; for
_ont level,                                                                                 onnre       ithunvraadctn enoletmy merest 100 p-r_s
lear  rarcoaro  trolaron  israachad - Toe Par  h-a sttoay          uaco-tt  soepupils ar-                      eo   o   hv  isoficia1 school age.
to                                                           1,= :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inodrysho  --oa,  aead _femal  - Computed an  be.ma;e....ndae
D.oeielniyetcto    eurse  lat fu   er   f  pp..ed primary ircin
--q   .   _Mid-ya     numtt   a   quars hilumtir (1D0 hectarsa  o                      pro-idss ge...raI. vtca.tinna,o  tesoh- .1 tranngisruton    o  pi
totni                                                                                        Mia uolly of 12 to 17 years nf age; cor-sponds noncose  are geesrmlly
Prr sq. ha. ascicultura  land - Computed an shot  for  Igilua  land                    aooded.
Pram Msti-teutor   Ireet) - Childre  (D-lA  year), enrkin  g-s    (15-                  isolde tobmico.  indusra,o   te   rgaswicopertet indeps-
64yesrt    and -stird  (5 yPas and ove) aspercentages of mi d-year popo-                    dentlyona  deyartnsota ofecndriaiutos
letion; 1960   lll.and191  data.                                                            po-ece   ai      rimarv  and_-nnajry - Total  todets enrolld in
Povulanion  Growt  Oats (rnrosntl- totel - Annualgrowon ranee oftotal nit-    prmayan1e -1ar   evl  divded by cuabereoftmahers in the
yerppuain    mr  95'0-60, INhOlI  and 1910-10                                         correspondinglves
PouaisGrowh Oats fprero..t) - urban - datoaI groth race  of urban popo-                 Adultltnayrats  I.rcEnt_) - Litertet adu1ts (able to rend and wits)
alo    o    0560-i, 1960-70, and 1970-79                                               s a per-etoge of total odo1tpopulation aged5 lbpear  and over,
Crue  irb  as   (r   hosad) - -an   IrehrhI       ptthousand of nid-ynar
pcpulon1on; 1960, 1910, ant 1919 date.                                                 C0glttPTIt9
Crude Daath  aE_  lrpr thous.and  - Aoed-  deaths per thoosand of nid-yssr                  Pssne$as(prtoaadrrlto)-Psene   ascsra   oo
Ppopulatio;t1.960, 1910, an  1919 dana.                                                     cas  eain  lesta-ih   oan;  -utldes  nholanosa, hearse  and
Groos t.Prru tucnto fe- Avrage nubh  of daughtsras ena ill hear in                            miitary,J oetce...t.        ,tp
he _oma   erd_ovv  period if ab ne.      ersPressert ag-specifir tar-             .a.. Idevr    ptonn    orlto)-All typos of re..sincre for radt
tility rar.; ....uily five-ya   -v-rges ending in 1960. 1970, ad11,                         b-odoa..ts to gene.ral public por thousand of PoPulation;  -aldeuLi-
faiyPlnmn - Acetors. Om-ua1 (thoonnds)t  A- taua  eubr ofaopos                      cuo   eevr   nrotisadI y.s    he  reitatinnrti   n
of brhcnrldVIce  ondr aunpicc.of ent.Io,a faIly planing program.                          nainefc;dtio    rorprem ntheoprblaos ot
fanily Planina    leer   lerrent _ofmane   coe)-Pronaso.eridcatrios abolished Itnening.
-oa  ofichuld-bnsrog nge (15-04 years)  ho  -s  bl-ib--ntr-1 dsci... to                    V  ...terionra  (ear thusndnouliln  - TV  -civara f or broed-st to
all mactied ome  In sam  age grop.                                                          gronrl public pn  thousad  ppuaio;enldas uniesdTV r...ai--r
P000 Alit tllitITIOO                                                    i~~~~~~o -ountrise and in years wh.. rnitai of TV sats was into ff-t,
loden of Pond Ptdction.  per Cnto   10 -1100Ol -lden of par tapirsanua                     gwnstet. Cditolate g      ner   -tboan   rurlaio)       Shw  teaerm   iru
prodotin oflictito davoted primarily no r..tording generl nw.it ta . onadarad
In o  clcdar Ycn  bnsa          omdtie-cdvn  primar  goods (s,g. 50atf                      ut be "daily" if it appears at leastI fou-ns a- wash.
inonu  o-ugarl ehich ar   dibla andcoti  ntients  a.cfe   o                         Cinem   Annual Atrendafi  mrCetsrr                  B..-ssdonthe otbnhr of
rastreonclioedl .   grgTc  rdci  onf seb  ootry is hta0                                inhete o.Id during the pea, including adleton   to. drive-in cinema
oacioe_l evnrgn pro- rpicecights;, 1991-65, 1910 . ad 1978 data.                             .-bl-i,
Per cents  nurcc of caoin(prcet  of ruleatl- Computed f ramadmhisuie
eospg6y equivalet of net Pond supplies avilable is ocetry per .spit.                 11      OC
per  ay.    vaiablesupliesrsmriedomsticprenotin.  Mpots- lea                 Ttel labo   Foce (rhoads) - tounontraly sctiVn persona, ioluding
opotto, and change insco.   nc pplin  enlds an-'imlfeed,sats,                            arme  fore  enuemlyed hut  noloding hneeirs..  students, st..
quantities uand In fond poeama,ad I..u.s in distribution,  hoi%e                         Deflircn..  In cannon. coutries ar    t  oparable; 1960, 1910 and
cents net  estimated by PAt base.d on physinloginal mactm Pfor ntal s.ti-                 1910 data.
icit  -ud health coo..id-riug  -nvrn- entl nanpeosrucs  body wightsng                  F-1.l (P.rcant  - PFm1l  labor force . noPocaItag  of total lab-rfre
an.d son din-rtbctiot of population,  'd alloting 10 percent foresiat                   Arolre(perccot  - Labor force in farming,foretry, hunting and
tuohod level; 1961-65, 1910, and 1911 dana.                                           fishing as percetage of itatl labor force; 160. 1910 an  1919 data.
otsplof  cd per day.  Net eupply of fond is defined  -a shb.-   R-                end e1antricity, wate  and gas--P as .erotiage of ttllhcfrs   90
quir-tmet  for all c-ttrien  setbliehed by USDA proids for aimi-                          1910 and 1910 dota.
allowanc  of hi gram  of rural protnin per day sad 20 gram  of animal .d               Participation Rtat  (p.rnenti   total, maI., so  femal  - Parniocaient or
pul1 .Prorsin, of which 15 gnom  should he  aims1 protein.  These stod-                   soiiyetnmcmpedattl,l,edfmlelrrotss
urdst       I lon   hu  hs   f75gaao  ttlpooiint3 rm   f                                  poonee  of. totl  maletd at.t0 1, alc  pouato  of1 sllbongnofpettly
anialproei  asenansog  fo  os wrl, prot.       by PAO in  he Third             190    f91,edt  .191  deta    Thes   arP'npriiaio    asrfe
Ao-dPod  Survy; 1961-6). 1910 and 1917 dsta,                                              age-an    trutr  of the,ouain  endlong time tran.  A fan asti-
Pn   ccia   riei    uclyfre   nialat  ols    Potinsly          y  fmtes ore iron national. sore..
rie   ro   nmasad pulse   ngeeprty   916,11   n   97da.    EcnmcRnnn                                  ae-tain of popuariot under 13 ned 65 and e
10111  fangs 1-) cottelity  gte (ret thousand) - Annua tenths Per- thruaod Io         to rho tona  labor f non
nga grou.P I-A Yan-, on childre  in this age gr-p; f. onmot d-vslping oe--
cries data danced from  life tablee; 19601, 1910 and 1917 dara,                        IN        SilTil  IOs
P..ena   of Private I_ca   (both to  cah and hind) - Nacatind by rinhest
II!,l                                                                                          5percet. rdibant 20It parnet, poorest 10 Peret   a   o-nth   etn
liP :1fya-any  a   it   yas   Averag  ounhar of ycare of life ramming                       of b hnehod.
abit;16,1970 end 1979 data,
InatMotlty-t  (nor thomaaot  - A--Iua  deahs of  fafets under eo. pear   POVERTY TARGET iGROUPS
oc ae pr tousnd  Ive, births; .                                                     Estimated Absolote  Povety Iooms Leve  (US$necpia   -  ranad rurl
Acesto Safe  Suettetrn  of enuaion) - ntal,  ubn adrrl-  .                                Aeaoepvtyicm ledIs that Incm-                      ee-    biwwih -iia
Somber of poop1. (total, urban, and rua)   ih  esoal  stres  to safe                         otritfosnly Adaquats diet plus essential non-feed rqort    Ca nt
o5tec sply(ncua    -tretd  -urfare wetea or ontretd but anotnnod                          fodbe
ester suc  asthatfrom protctd bthrhos.  srn,adsanrywl)                               ge.tima-d Rtelaiv   Ponry El,    oms Levl-         a    aia)-ob    a   na 
protgnochir repctv.        opltin.Ina   rban niaapblic                            Rara  reletivi ynnervy intoma  ..vn Iis  -n-third of aveag  per "sPita
foiaoc   tnP.oet  cotad ntmr  ht1et er rcah-.se may habesc  i-cm   of nth ootM ry.  irban leve  Is derived fete the rura
cocutdncd  an beng ttrhi  ceanonbleaca   tta  hous.   Inrua  arn                    ee   ith adju--et for higsr ...r of liymn in urbanaes
ucceos  to increcs  Ilsocea th(n  h.cant of enotiation  - tatat urban  an
rural - anber of peopl  (totl,  rha, an   ua)srvdbdarr
dispoa  no I.  por-rovgee of their  -ep-ire populations.  Eacrta die-                                                      econoic and Sola  Dtat  DivisIo
poalmy inlude the colti            d n  disposal, w.ith or without ttratm-n                                       Econ-ml  Analysis and Pt .t)oinma Dapareat
P""   .!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~Otbe190
of hunan   tncav  and en. ts-vtr by  -a-b-ho          system   or the ma  of                                                               O
pit privies sot siiariseloto



- 23 -                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
;ROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.        x                      1973-77              1977               1978
.NP at Market Prices               58800        100.0                        7.4                3.0               5.6
Gross Domestic Investment          18423         31.3                       30.9                 6.4               7.8
Gross National Saving              14939         25.4                       17.7               -8.8                9.4
Uurrent Account Balance            -3261          5.6                                            -                  -
Exports of Goods, NFS              12116         20.6                       -3.4               -1.8                7.1
tmports of Goods, NFS              14580         28.4                       36.0               21.5              -8.3
)IJTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                      Labor Force-                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       Z                  Mln.      Z                     US%  6
Agriculture                        13920         23.9                 17.0     56.0                    819        43.0
industry                           21922         37.7                  5.2     17.0                   4216        220.0
Services                            22318        38.4                  6.7     22.0                   3331        174.0
'nallocated                            -            -                  1.4      5.0                     -            -
T6tal/Average                 58160        100.0                30.3    100.0                   1919        100.0
3OVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                              Central Government
(N Mln.)           % of GDP    _(N Min.)                          % of GDP
1979/8      1978/79   1976/77-1977/78         1979/80    1978/79   1976/77-1977/78
current Receipts                    13288        19.5         34.4                  9805       12.2          20.0
Current Expenditure                   5428        13.1         15.7                  2890        6.9           8.0
Current Surplus                       7861         6.4         18.7                  6915        35.3         12.0
Capital Expenditures                  9095        18.3         30.0                  7320       11.7          18.9
External Assistance (net)
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1975          1976          1977            1978             1979          1980  2/
(Killion N Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                    4167          5732          7439            8087            10406         11502
Bank Credit to Public Sector             -608           653          2634           4105              3678          2494
bank Credit to Private Sector            1798          2423          3465           4684              5413          5846
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
.'Oney and Quasi Money as Z of GDP       25.1          26.9           28.8          n.a.              n.a.          n.a.
General Price Index (1960 - 100) 3/    289.6          352.4         423.1           492.5            550.0          n.a.
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      33.5           23,9         15.4            16.5             11.8          n.a.
Bank Credit to Public Sector              ,,            ,,          303.4           55.8             -10.4         -32.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector            58.4          34.8          43.0            35.2             15.6           8.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1 fTotal labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
msainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Data cover the period June 1980.
3/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices up to 1977.  National Price Index from 1978.
Not available.
April 1981



- 24 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
LANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-79)
1977       1978       1979                                         US$ Mln.    Z
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS               13,218    11,319    17,796           Crude Oil                         12,107    92.2
Imports of Goods, NFS               13,502    14,580    15,285           Cocoa Products                        640     4.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)             -284    -3,261       2,511        Palm Products                          30     0.2
Tin                                    18     0.1
Interest Payments (net)                 324        246      -247        All Other Commodities                  332     2.6
Workers' Remittances                    -          -         -
Other Factor Payments (net)            -861       -474      -201
Net Transfers                          -185       -269      -388                           Total           13,127   100.0
Balance on Current Account          -1,006    -3,758    1,675
Direct Foreign Investment               382        211       305        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                          95     1,434    1,022                                                USS Mln.
Amortization                          -61        -2L       -38
Subtotal                               34     1,410        984        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         7,149
Capital Crants                          -          -         -          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Other Capital (net)                    -130       -151        10        Total outstanding & disbursed
Other items n.e.i                        48        -69       388
Increase in Reserves (+)               -672    -2,357    3,362          DEBT SERVICE RATIO EOR 1980!-
Gross Reserves (end year)                                                                                        Z
Net Reserves (end year)              4,707      2,350    5,712
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed           1.7
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                               Total outstanding & disbursed
of which:  Petroleum                199        275       343
Exports
of which:  Petroleum            10,963      8,505   16,877          IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1981) (Millions_$)
TE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                               IBRD    IDA
76:  Nl.OO = US$1.60                                                    Outstanding  & Disbursed             526.2   37.3
77:  Nl.00 = USS1.55                                                    Undisbursed 2/                       618.2   -
78:  Nl.O0 = US$1.57                                                    Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,144.4   37.3
79: NI.00 = US$1.66
BO: N1.00 - US$1.81
Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Excluding Ekiti-Akoko ADP ($32.5) and Oyo North ADP ($28.0) loans which are not yet effective.
Not Available
April 1981



- 25 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE SATMS OF BANK cpo':P OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of March 31, i98i)
Loan or                                                                           USS million
Credit                                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower    Purpose                                     Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                             479.6    35.3
838       1972     Nigeria        Roads                                   26.3               6.2
929       1973      Nigeria       Education                               54.0              39.4
1045       1974      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                              20.0                2.9
1091       1975      Nigeria       Livestock                               21.0              12.0
1092       1975      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Funtua                      29.0               0.7
1099       1975      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Gusau                       19.0                0.4
1103       1975      Nigeria       Rice Dev.                               17.5               5.7
1164       1975      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Gombe                       21.0               0.3
1183       1975      Nigeria       H.W. State Oil Palm                     29.5              20.9
1191       1976      Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm                     19.0              14.6
1192       1976    Nigeria         W. State Oil Palm                       17.0              11.8
1454       1977      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Lafia                       27.0              12.5
1455       1977      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Ayangba                     35.0              17.7
1591       1978      Nigeria       Nuc.Est. Smallholder Oil                30.0              25.0
1597       1978      NIDB          Industrial Dev.                         60.0              48.6
1667       1979      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Bida                        23.0              20.4
1668       1979      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Ilorin                      27.0               22.9
1679       1979      Nigeria       Forestry                                31.0              29,5
1711       1979      Nigeria       Water Supplv - Kaduna                   92.0              91.4
1719       1979    Nigeria         Agric. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.               9.0                9.0
17h6       1980    NEPA            Power - Lagos                          100.0             100.0
1767       1980    Nigeria         Urban Dev. - Bauchi                     17.8               17.3
*1838        1980     Nigeria       Agric. Dev. - Oyo-North                 28.0               28.1
*1854        1980    Nigeria        Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Akoko                32.5              32. 5
1883       1980    Nigeria         Roads                                  108.0             108.0
Total                                               1,373.2   35.3    c78.7
Of which has been repaid                              168_3    2.6
Total outstanding                                  1,204.9   32.7
Amount sold                      16.8
Of which has been repaid         16.8                   0.G
**Total now held by Bank & IDA                        1,204.9   32.7
Total undisbursed                                                       678-7
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INIVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                               Type of               Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.                   Textile Mfg.            1.0      0.6       1.6
1970
1964          Nigeria Industrial                  Dev. rin. Co.                   1.4        1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973          Funtua Cottonseed                   Veg. Oil                1.6                1.6
Crushing Ltd.                       Crushing
1973          Nigerian Aluminum                   Aluminumr.              1.0     0.3        1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                      Processing
1974          Lafiagi Sugar                       Sugar                           0.1        0.1
Estates
1980          NTMl                                 Textiles               6.2     0.7        6.9
1981          Ikeja Hotel                         Tourism                 7.6     2.3        9.9
Total Gross Commitrents                                    17.4     5.4       22.8
Less cancellations                                       0.4                0.4
Less sold and repaid                                    _21       1.6        3.9
Total Commitments now held by IFC                          14.7     3.8       18.5
Undisbursed                                                 9.9     2.3       12.2
* Not yet effective
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments



ANNEX II
- 26 -                               Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 838-UNI    Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project has been completed, and final reimbursement claims
concerning the training of maintenance technicians and preparatory work for
the Sixth Highway Project are currently being processed by the Federal Minis-
try of Works. As soon as these claims have been processed by the Bank,
any amounts undisbursed will be cancelled.
Loan No. 929-UNI    Third Education Project:  USS54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold. In FY79,
the scope of the project was reduced and the closing date was extended.
Project management has since then improved, but project progress is behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1045-UNI   Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all
four participating states. Loan recovery performance has however surfaced
as a major problem. A tight "action program has been initiated, and
updating and reconciliation of farmer loan records has been completed. A
project completion report is being prepared.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has improved. The project is now under
good management which has overcome most of the initial problems.  Supporting,
services are better organized, and credit is now being effectively channeled
through NACB.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 27 -                            Page 3
Loan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976,
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is complete with satisfactory farmer response
and the full support of both Federal and State Governments. Demand for inputs
is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally controlled Agricul-
tural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit financed under this
loan is fully operational. A project completion report is under preparation.
An expanded second stage project to cover the remainder of Kaduna State has
been appraised, but its further processing is uncertain due to political
problems within Kaduna State.
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been completed with satisfactory support from
both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response has been good, and
appraisal objectives have been met and in some cases exceeded. A project
completion report is under preparation.  A second phase project to cover the
remainder of Sokoto State has been appraised.
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1974; Effective Date:  January 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31,1982
Project implementation made a slow start due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations.  The Bank has withdrawn from
the project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems
of cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. The remaining funds set
aside for Cross River State will be reallocated to project components in
Anambra and Imo States, where physical project progress and counterpart
funding are more satisfactory, and development is accelerating.
Loan No. 1164-UNI   Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29.
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments and is virtually complete. A project
completion report is being prepared. A loan for a second-stage project
to cover the remainder of Bauchi State was approved by the Executive Directors
on April 30, 1981.
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5
million Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:
October 17, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition, and completion of the Federal
and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal targets for the
nucleus estate and smallholder components have not been met due to delays in



ANNEX II
- 28 -                                 Page 4
land acquisition as well as continuing financial and managerial problems.
The monitoring component has not been fully effective because of staffing
difficulties. The Bank has advised the Federal Government that it will have
no alternative but to officially halt disbursement under the Loan in case no
remedial action is taken by May 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation
of new states and problems with staffing. Even though appraisal planting
targets have not been met and the construction of palm oil mills has been
delayed, the project has the best potential for smallholder oil palm develop-
ment, and planting rates are now at an acceptable level. The palm oil mill is
currently being designed.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component continues to face financial difficulties,
and final targets may not be achieved. For the nucleus estate component, land
acquisition, management, and funding problems have delayed progress. Plant-
ings are in poor condition and processing facilities are inadequate. Although
actions to resolve these problems have been initiated by the State government,
corrective action so far has been insufficient.  Consequently, the Bank sus-
pended disbursements under the Loan as of February 28, 1981 until further
notice.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although local counterpart funding is now adequate, the project is
still experiencing some problems of a technical nature, particularly concerning
extension and training. However, overall project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project continues to improve with satisfactory support from the
Federal and State Governments. The most significant improvement is the
introduction of the Training and Visit system, which has enhanced the impact
of the extension services. Farmer participation and physical project progress
is good. Disbursements are also proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
- 29 -                               Page 5
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm
Project: US$30.0 million Loan of July 24, 1978;
Effective Date: July 10, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Loan effectiveness was delayed because of problems regarding comple-
tion of the State Loan Agreement, a Management Agreement, and Federal and
State Legal Opinions. Physical progress is satisfactory, and earlier funding
problems have been overcome. The smallholder component faces some managerial
difficulties.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60
million Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date:
October 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
About 70 percent of the loan has been committed and about 12 percent dis-
bursed. Both are less than expected at the time of appraisal owing to the in-
vestment climate in 1978/79 which was affected very much by the uncertainties
surrounding the change in government in late-1979. The investment climate has
recently improved considerably, however, and it is expected that the Loan will
be fully committed before the end of this year.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project:  US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1668-UNI   Ilorin Agricultural Development Project:  US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:  US$31 million Loan of
October 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily. However, the Ogun State
component is being affected by inadequate state financing.
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water Supply Project:  US$92 million Loan
of July 16, 1979; Effective Date: July 22, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation was delayed by some initial procurement
problems which have now been resolved. Although the Kaduna State Water Board
proposed a tariff increase in late-1980, it has not yet been approved by the
State Government.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                              Page 6
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project:  US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979;
Effective Date:  March 30, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Management consultants are in the field, and project implementation
has been initiated.
Loan No. 1766-UNI   Lagos Power Distribution Project:  US$100 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date: July 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1767-UNI   Urban Development Project:  US$17.8 million Loan of
February 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the initial stages, project progress was impaired by management
and staffing problems. As a result of efforts by the Bauchi State authorities
to resolve these problems, the situation has already improved substantially.
Civil works have begun and an accelerated implementation schedule has been
introduced that will permit the project to be completed within the time span
envisaged at appraisal. Technical assistance to the FMBN is proceeding
well and has already resulted in better management and in an improved planning
and project implementation capability.
Loan No. 1838-UNI   Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project:  US$28.0
million Loan of August 25, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
The Oyo State Government is making good progress toward meeting the
effectiveness conditions.
Loan No. 1854-UNI   Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural Development Project:  US$32.5
million Loan of December 15, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The Ondo State Government is making good progress toward meeting the
effectiveness conditions.
Loan No. 1883-UNI   Sixth Highway Project:  US$108 million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: December 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Contracts for the road strengthening works, the feasibility study
of the Calabar-Ikom road, and the training of maintenance technicians have
been awarded, and the project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial
stages.
Loan No. 1981-UNI  Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project: US$132
million Loan; not yet signed.
Loan No. 1982-UNI  Kano Agricultural Development Project: US$142 million Loan;
not yet signed.



- 31 -                              ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  4 months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:  Federal Government
with the help of consultants and Bank staff.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:  February 1980
(d)  Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:  May 1980
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  June 1980
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:  March 20, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:  October 31, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank's Agricultural Projects Nlanagement Unit for West Africa
would assist in engaging key internationally-recruited staff to initiate
the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)  Formal issuance of technical guidelines for the states to follow
in preparing ADA proposals (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 47);
and
(ii) Opening of commercial bank accounts for APMEPU and FACU with
initial deposits of X0.5 million and N1.0 million respectively
(Condition of Effectiveness; para. 58).






as      In.                                   It,                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I B R D 15065R
CHADNIEA
~~  ~~~           BRD  Assisted  Agricultural Projects
Oak   And                 ~~~Completed  and  Appraised
SOKOTO  ISnrsino                                   N5II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  cabS                                  B ~~~~~~~~Agric.ltuvral Development Projects.
COMPLETED:
Funt.o (Loan 1092-UNI)
k.~~~~~~~~~~~rO~~~~~~~~~~Ian ~~~~~~~~~~~Gu- f (Loo  1099- UN[)
Gmb.ln (Loon 1164- UNI)
EXIST ING:
Gus                                                    B       0    R   N   0                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lfi:o (Loo. 1454-UNI)
K   0   T   0                                                                                                                            19'              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ayovgbo (Le.n 1455-UNI)
P.1i,k.m                                                                       B.~~MISuue  Edo (Loon 1667- UNI)
hovre (Loon 1668- UNI)
BORNO                STAT                            -OyNrt(Lo   3-UNI)
Ekiti Akoke (L-ort54-LUNQ
z                                                                                                                              B ... h,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onn Stole
J  K    A    D  N                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APPRAISED:
p                                                                                                                                                                                             K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rdon. Store
Santo Stole
Moorbillo
8AUCHI                                                    0                             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDER PREPARATION:
Anoenb,n S.tol
s                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B.nde1 North
K                                                                                       TiA D:                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Born Slt.t
yin                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers Stole
0                         7_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%vraLosgv Ste te
Jes   PoLA                                                                                           Eo     UTraining Projects:
T               Agri-Ilt-to  ond ERol
Mo...g9m.nt Tr.i...g Instit.te
CAPITAL                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Loon 1719-UNI)
F;                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tree Crop Projects
EXISTING
.  l:    Cove   I (L..nv764-U N I(and
Cono IL (Leon 1045 -UNI(
MAKURDI  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*-                                                                         Ondo 0,1 Polr, (L-11l92- UNI)
Seedel01 OdPorn (Loon 1183-UNI)
lee0. R.I.Pl (Loo 119'1-UNI)
R-,er Slte. 0:1 PoIr, (Loo 1525 -UNI()
Fn-etry (Leo 1679 -UN 1)
APPRAISEID
~~  LA  ~  P ~  n  v  0r~~  +OENIN  ~ ~   Avokejol                                                                      .tnrtosv.nvorrn,.no,S.5r.nlnra rvnnsonarln.oo.vmnn                     Cress Rent SternC-R-   EstateE,,t 10:11PoIm.
ve0sr nrvneare in I.v.O  .05inornIsrinne inn*nnenenIrrigation  Project
EXISTING-
Linveb    ~ ensrBr           Rinne (L-1n103-JNI)
4r~+  nIttor  tnnstvo.vintb                            t                                              vestock Development Project:
______                                    vIGnR ~~~~~~~~~~CAr                       (Loan 1091 -UN])
ortyrnvsr~~~-ss  vna~~                     EXISTING
6"  6~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ R    RT                                                                                                                                                                      N.ti-I -,-t.CkP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in  )  otorn  Lneson creonkn C.. R-ehen
-~~~~~~~~~~~4 -.-nnrornoefnro                        0~ 0oe                                   Wesen Li-et-k Co Renhlte
-, ain~'v  A       North - Enslrn Co  nvR-es
v                                                                                                                                                                                     ZA   P    s    y o meA/RnP~aa~~  Groe-n  Reserve- Fuleni G-vp R-eh-n



