Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                           A
Report No. 3207b-UNI
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NIGERIAN FOOD PRODUCTION PLAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 28, 1981
West Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      Naira (N)
US$1               =      Naira 0.55
Ni                 =      US$1.818
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric ton       =      0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)    =       2.47 acre
1 kilometer (km)  =       0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AETS      Agronomy and Extension Training Section
ADA       Accelerated Development Area Program
ADP       Agricultural Development Projects
AIDS      Agro-Industrial Development Section
FACU      Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FASU      Federal Agricultural Support Unit
FDRD      Federal Department of Rural Development
FGN       Federal Government of Nigeria
FMA       Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FRADYS    Field Record for Agricultural Details
Yields and Stands
JLCB      Joint Local Council Boards
LGA       Local Government Area
LGC       Local Government Council
LPU       Livestock Production Unit
M/E       Monitoring/Evaluation
MIS       Management Information Section
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
moW       Ministry of Works
MRD       Ministry of Rural Development
MWT       Mechanical Works and Training
NACB      Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NFMC      National Fertilizer Marketing Company
NGB       Nigerian Grains Board
PEO       Principal Evaluation Officer
PPS       Project Planning Section
PY        Project Year
RIS       Rural Infrastructure Section
RRE       Rural Road Engineer
SIFMS     Single Interview Farm Management Survey
SOAK      Survey of Agricultural Knowledge
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND .....................................    1
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .1....                 ...1
A.  General ............ .............    1
B. The National Food Plan......                                        2
C. Technical Assistance.                                               6
III.  THE FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT.                            6
A. Background                             .                             6
B.   The Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evraluation, and
Planning Unit.                                                   7
C. Review of APMEPU .9
IV.   PROJECT PROPOSALS ... ...................   13
General ............... ...... . .........   13
A.   Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation, and
Planning Unit ............   13
B.   Federal Support for ADAs and ADPs .           .........   18
C.   Other Agricultural Support Programs ............   21
D.   Recruitment Procedures ............                              22
E. Training ............   23
F. Project Costs ............   24
G.  Proposed Financing ......                  ......    25
H. Procurement ............   26
I.  Disbursements ............ .. ..   26
J.  Accounts and Audit ............  27
K.   Programming and Budgeting ............    27
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS .................                                      27
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED, CONDITIONS AND CONCLUSION .29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. 0. Saadat, J. Hitchings, A. Faiz, and S. Hertel (Consultant) who
visited Nigeria from June 6 to June 26, 1980 to appraise APMEPU and the
federal support components of the Nigerian National Food Plan (April 1980).
Messrs. P. Cadario, C. des Bouvrie and D. Henry (Consultant) contributed to
the appraisal report.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Annex 1   Project Costs ...............................................   31
Table 1   Project Cost Summary with Contingencies ...........  31
Table 2   APMEPU Northern Office Base Capital Costs   ........  32
Table 3   APMEPU Northern Office Base Recurrent Costs:
Salaries  ................    ..     .....................   33
Table 4   APMEPU Northern Office Base Recurrent Costs:
Operating Expenses ............ ..         ................   34
Table 5   APMEPU Southern Office Base Costs ........ .........   35
Table 6   Summary of APMEPU Base Costs ........ ..           ............   36
Table 7   Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit Base Costs              37
Tables 8  a, b and c  Federal Agricultural Support Unit-
Jos-Costs ........... ..       ................  39-41
Tables 9  a, b and c  Federal Agricultural Support Unit-
Enugu-Costs .......... ..       ...............  42-44
Tables 10 a, b and c  Federal Agricultural Support Unit-
Kaduna-Costs .......... ................  45-47
Tables 11 a, b and c  Federal Agricultural Support Unit-
Ibadan-Costs .......... ..       ..............  48-50
Table 12  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....... ........   51
Annex 2 APMEPU Survey Descriptions, Implementation Record
and Proposed Survey Schedule .............................   52
Table 1   Standardization of Surveys .........................   57
Table 2   Typical Time Path for Surveys .....................   58
Table 3   Survey Proposals ..................................  59-60
Table 4   Ad Hoc Evaluation Studies .........................   61
Annex 3 Proposed Survey Training Schedule and Costs ...................   63
Table 1  Training Schedule ..................................   65
Table 2  Per Diem Costs .....................................   67
Annex 4  ADA Evaluation Proposals .....................................   68
Annex 5  APMEPU Terms of Reference and Job Descriptions ....             ...........   70
A.  Outline Terms of Reference for APMEPU ........................   70
B.  Job Descriptions for APMEPU ..................................   71
Annex 6  Federal Support Program Terms of Reference and
Job Descriptions ..............................................   76
A.   Outline Terms of Reference for FACU .........................   76
B.   Job Descriptions for FACU ...................................   76
C.   Outline Terms of Reference for FASUs ........................   81
D.   Job Descriptions for FASU ..................................   85
Table 1.  Specialist Staff Summary ...............................   95
Annex 7  Rural Supply Consultants:  Draft Terms of Reference .........               96



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Charts
21850     Organization Chart for APMEPU
21849     Organization Chart for Federal Agricultural
Support Unit (FASU)
Map
15065R    IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects






NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
for the Implementation of the Nigerian Food Production Plan
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested the World
Bank to provide technical assistance for the implementation of the National
Food Plan. The FGN request for the continuation of the Federal Agricultural
Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) was contained in
APMEPU position paper dated November 1979, and a final proposal submitted to
Bank in April 1980. FGN proposals for assistance for the Food Plan were
contained in the report The Green Revolution: A Food Production Plan for
Nigeria which was prepared by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture (FMA) in
April 1980, with Bank assistance. In May 1980, a Bank mission visited Nigeria
to appraise the proposed project.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Nigeria.  The Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 States and
covers a total land area of 924,000 km2. Total 1979 population is estimated
at roughly 83 million, which is nearly 20% of the total for the African
continent. Average GDP per capita, estimated at around US$670 in 1979,
is low and unevenly distributed; income in rural areas is considerably less,
possibly as low as US$100 per capita per year.
2.02      Economic Trends.  The Nigerian economy is dominated by the oil
sector, which accounts for about 23% of GDP, over 90% of export earnings and
80% of government revenue. Increases in oil prices since 1973/74 have
enabled the government to embark on massive investment programs which contri-
buted to GNP growth, averaging 7% per annum between 1973 and 1977. However,
growth has been concentrated in those sectors that benefitted in particular
from the rapid expansion in government expenditure, i.e., infrastructure,
education and large-scale manufacturing, and performance of the productive
sectors, notably agriculture, has been disappointing. Furthermore, the
economy has been unable to generate goods and services at the rate demanded,
and consequently the domestic price level rose by an average of 20% per annum
between 1974 and 1979. The combination of a high level of oil output and a
doubling of the price of oil during 1979 has temporarily removed financial
constraints. The price of oil is expected to continue to rise gradually in
real terms through 1990, and, although oil production may not exceed the
present level of 2.15 million barrels per day, the resource position over the
next four years is likely to be comfortable. Whereas the overall growth



prospects for the medium term are good, the longer run outlook depends on
the success of the effort to diversify the economy, and in particular, to
improve performance in the agricultural sector.
2.03      Agricultural Sector 1/.  Agriculture is the leading non-oil sector
in Nigeria, supporting 61% of the population directly, and providing 23% of
GDP, nearly 5% of total exports and 70% of non-oil exports. Production
is overwhelmingly by smallholders, using traditional, manual technology.
In the North annual crops predominate (grains, cotton and groundnuts),
while in the South cash income is largely from tree crops (cocoa, oil palm
and rubber) with subsistence support from root crops and grains.
2.04      Since 1970 agricultural production has stagnated, with annual
growth rates (below 1%) less than half population growth. Domestic food
prices have risen, agricultural exports have declined, and imports of
food rose fifteenfold between 1970 and 1978. Imports of food represented
6.8% of gross calorie supply in 1976, and are estimated to rise to 15% in
1980. If present trends continue, imports will contribute 24% of gross
supply by 1985. Inflation for food commodities has been running at about
25% per year--significantly higher than for the economy as a whole.
2.05      The agricultural sector has faced stiff import competition for two
reasons. The exchange rate for the naira is held high from oil revenues
without being allowed to adjust downward for inflation, thus keeping retail
prices of imported goods low. In addition, resources, and particularly
labor, are attracted to less stagnant sectors, which further decreases
agricultural productivity and increases the cost of these factors to agri--
culture. Although consumer prices are relatively high for domestic food
commodities compared with imports, producer prices for some crops, parti-
cularly rice, offer insufficient incentives to rapidly stimulate production.
These factors point to the possibility of high marketing margins coupled with
poor infrastructure.
2.06      There are several important constraints to agricultural develop-
ment in addition to macroeconomic hindrances: (a) a lack of infrastructure
and feeder roads connecting farms to markets; (b) inadequate and variable
supplies of productive inputs; (c) insufficient extension and weak links
between extension services and research on new technologies; and (d) in-
adequate support for essential farm credit and crop marketing services. The
structure of government subsidies on inputs, especially fertilizer, has
largely precluded commercial involvement by the private sector in distributing
inputs. The public sector, meanwhile, has lacked the physical infrastruc-
ture and well-managed institutions required for the task.
B. The National Food Plan
2.07      Successive governments have emphasized the importance of improving
agricultural performance. The revised Third Five Year Development Plan
(1975-80) allocated N3.0 billion for agricultural development--partly
I/     A full description and policy analysis is given in Report 2181-UNI
(1979).



-3-
for direct production projects (mechanized agriculture, capital-intensive
irrigation schemes) and partly for support to smallholders. However, the
direct production schemes have proved expensive and hiave achieved little
development impact, while, except for the Bank-financed agricultural projects,
past nat:ional smallholder programs (Operation Feed the Nation) lacked the
institutional capability to effectively deliver serviLces to farmers.
2.08      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) colmmissioned a team of
consultants to prepare a more comprehensive food strategy for the Fourth
Five Year Development Plan (1981-85) which could umobilize resources on a
broader scale and surmount the difficulties encountered in the Third Plan.
The core of the Food Plan 1/ is the expansion of Bankz-assisted Agriculture
Developimnt Projects (ADPs), of which nine are currently being implemented,
and the introduction of an Accelerated Development Area (ADA) program. The
orientation of the strategy remains firmly directed to smallholders. This
strategy and the related role of the Bank are clearly recognized in the plan,
which has recently been published.
2.09      By 1982, nearly four million rural families are likely to be reached
by four statewide ADPs and six enclave ADPs, which are being undertaken with
Bank assistance. Concurrently,the ADA program, to be financed by the Federal
and state governments, would introduce the highly successful ADP Basic Service
Package to those agricultural areas not already partiLcipating in ADPs. This
package directly addresses the leading constraints on agricultural development
identified above (para 2.06) by: (a) developing infrastructure including
on-farm storage and 25,000 km of feeder roads; (b) supplying fertilizer, seeds,
and other inputs; and (c) vigorously improving extension services and raising
the extension ratio to 1:800. ADAs would be implemented over the next
several years in 15 states but phased in one zone at a time in each state.
2.10      With the implementation of the Food Plan, a maximum agricultural
growth rate of 3.5% per annum may be achieved over the next five years.
Nigeria would still be a net importer of food in 1985, but the trend of
growing dependency on imports would be reversed, and in fact, imports would
be a shrinking proportion of total consumption. The ADP and ADA programs
are expected to contribute about equally to total production in 1985, but
half of the incremental production would be derived f'rom the ADPs, a third
from the ADAs, and the remainder of incremental production would be supplied
by special projects. Like the completed and existing ADPs, the ADA program
would be implemented by the States and jointly financed by the States and
FGN, with Federal financial support equalling 25% of the program costs. The
estimated total cost of the ADA program over the five years (1981-1985) is
N900 million (US$1.5 billion).
2.11      The ADA approach has been officially endorsed at the state and
federal level, and has been included in the Fourth National Development Plan,
which is now under consideration. The Gongola State ADA program has been
prepared, together with an ADA handbook, both of which serve as a guide for
ADA development in other areas. Likewise, seven other studies covering
1/   The Green Revolution:  A Food Production Plan for Nigeria, Federal
Ministry ot Agriculture, May 1980.



-4-
Anambra, Bendel, Borno, Cross River, Lagos, Imo and Rivers States, that
reflect the ADA/ADP strategy, have nearly been completed by joint Nigerian/
expatriate teams financed under the Ilorin Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1668-UNI). ADA programs are also under preparation for Benue and
Plateau States. It is likely that parts of the ADA program will be upgraded
to ADPs with Bank financial assistance in the foreseeable future. This would
require adding the Advanced Service Package to the already functioning Basic
Service Package. Thus the costs and effort necessary to implement ADPs would
be greatly reduced if the ADA program is well established and carefully
monitored. This technical assistance project should therefore be viewed aLs
facilitating the National Food Plan not only by helping implement existing
ADPs and the new ADAs but also by laying the foundation for future ADPs.
2.12      To be fully effective, the ADA and ADP production program should
be complemented by a series of other national actions such as improved seed
production, more appropriate adaptive research, as well as by other rural
services including health and electrification. Most of those actions are
being undertaken in one way or other by Federal and state governments under
separate programs within their spheres of responsibility. However, some
important support programs that are essential for the success of the Food Plan
need strengthening. These include fertilizer procurement and distribution,
marketing of food grains, provision of agricultural credit, and livestoclk
development, particularly integration of livestock with arable farming and
cattle fattening. Another area that has not been tackled systematically is
small-scale agro-industries, particularly those industries involved in pro-
cessing and storage of farm production and in the manufacture of simple
technology farm implements. To be effective, these agro-related industries
should be: (a) generally simple in design to facilitate production and
maintenance; (b) small in scope, to serve definite sources of supply of raw
materials; (c) labor-intensive and susceptible to satellite operations in
given circumstances. The Federal Department of Rural Development has been
given the responsibility to promote the growth of small-scale rural industries
and this project will provide some assistance for this program.
2.13      The Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD) needs to be
significantly strengthened both to monitor and evaluate progress toward the
national production targets set out in the Food Plan and to assist the
states in actual implementation. Thus two institutional structures would be
involved, one existing and one new.
2.14      The Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation, and Planning
Unit (APMEPU, para. 3.01), would be restructured to fully meet the moni-
toring and evaluation needs of both ADPs and ADAs, and to analyze evaluation
results to provide policy input for future agricultural development. APMEPU
would design and in conjunction with ADP/ADA staff implement surveys to
evaluate and monitor the agricultural impact of the Food Production Plan and
would carry out data processing and survey analysis. It would continue to
provide methodological and analytical support, training of evaluation officers
from the ADAs and ADPs, and quality control on data generation.
2.15      Four Federal Agricultural Support Units (FASUs) would provide
federal assistance to the States for the execution of the ADP/ADA investment
program. Each of these units would be specialized by ecological and climatic



- 5 -
zone to cater to the somewhat unique needs of the states under its aegis
(para. 4.11). The FASUs would be located at Kaduna, Ibadan, Jos, and Enugu.
This north-to-south alignment allows them to service latitudinal bands of
Nigeria which are somewhat homogeneous with respect to cropping conditions.
At the apex, the FASUs would report to a Federal Agricultural Coordinating
Unit (FACU), which in turn, would be responsible to FDRD.
2.16      By bridging research and extension and supporting training,
planning and implementation, the FASUs would be an integral part of the
National Food Plan. They would:
-  provide technical assistance for implementation to states partici-
pating in the ADA programs;
-  monitor physical and financial implementation of the ADP and ADA
programs through the establishment and operation of a systematic
management information system;
-  monitor the release of federal funds for ADAs and ADPs to the parti-
cipating states against agreed plans and performance records;
-  provide agronomic and crop protection advice to the states;
-  help train extension agents for the expanded and reshaped extension
network;
-  advise states on preparation of ADAs and ADPs;
-  develop and support the implementation of agro-related industries;
-  assist governments in developing plans for low cost rural water
supplies for irrigation and human consumption; and
-  assist states in developing overall manpower development and training
plans to support the ADA/ADP program, in particular by helping govern-
ments in placing staff in appropriate training courses in Nigeria and
abroad.
The management information system designed by the FACU for the ADAs would have
a heavy emphasis on cost accounting and administrative management and would be
provided to both the ADAs and the ADPs. Detailed proposals appear in Chapter
IV.
2.17      FDRD has prepared draft technical guidelines for the states to
follow in preparing ADA proposals, for consideration by the FASUs, as projects
eligible for the 25% FGN financial contribution. The criteria for eligibility,
the method of FGN disbursement to the states, and the reporting requirements
should be better defined in these guidelines. Draft technical criteria, pre-
pared with the help of the Bank, are being reviewed and refined by FDRD to
ensure appropriate emphasis on management (including the role of existing
bodies in ADA implementation and the transition to ADPs), staffing (including



- 6 -
use of consultants to support and reinforce the civil service), and training
of managers, technicians, and extension workers. The formal issuance of these
guidelines is a condition for effectiveness.
C. Technical Assistance
2.18      If Nigeria is to achieve the objectives of the National Food Plan,
it would be essential that experienced managerial and technical manpower be
located and recruited, and that Nigerian staff be trained to take up these
responsibilities. Nigeria and, in particular, the agricultural sector are
seriously deficient in trained and experienced manpower. Currently, manpower
shortages, a feature and constraint recognized by the Government, are evident
at all levels and account for significant delays in the implementation of
otherwise sound projects. The successful implementation of the National Food
Plan would depend, among other factors, on the recruitment of adequately
trained and experienced staff not only for the ADP program but also for
APMEPU, FACU, and the FASUs. Additionally, to ensure the adequacy of related
programs (para 2.12) technical assistance is required for the Nigerian Grains
Board (NGB), the Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank (NACB), the Live-
stock Project Unit (LPU) of FMA-s Department of Livestock, and other related
national institutions (such as the other marketing boards, the National
Fertilizer Marketing Company, etc.) which support the implementation of the
Food Plan. Experience of ongoing projects shows the difficulties of recruit-
ing on an individual basis within Nigeria. For example, APMEPU has been
chronically understaffed during its entire existence. It is therefore recog-
nized that the manpower required at senior managerial and technical levels for
these units will have to be recruited internationally. However, where appro-
priate, efforts would be made to use joint Nigerian and expatriate firms.
III. FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Background
3.01      The Federal Department of Rural Development was created in 1977 as
a technical department of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture with the
responsibility of implementing Nigeria's rural development program. Com-
pared to its sister department, the Federal Department of Agriculture, it was
and still is very small. Initially its role was confined to overseeing the
Federal interest in the Bank financed ADPs, at that time Funtua, Gombe and
Gusau Agricultural Development Projects, and the implementation of some
settlement farms in southeastern Nigeria. It was also responsible for
monitoring and evaluation, through APMEPU (Section III. A below). In its
function of overseeing the ADPs and APNEPU, FDRD has responsibility for
reviewing internationally recruited staff, making budgetary reviews and
releasing Federal-financed contributions to different projects, overseeing
the preparation of feasibility studies, and coordinating evaluation and
monitoring data made available by APMEPU.



3.02       Until recently, the smallness of FDRD was unique and advantageous
since it was well managed and operated with minimal bureaucratic delays.
However, at this time, apart from a much expanded AE'MEPU, it shares with the
Bank supervisory functions for nine ongoing ADPs and at least four large
statewide ADPs to be implemented in the near future. More significantly,
however, FDRD has an important role in supporting the implementation by the
states of the ADP/ADA programs of the National Food Plan. Clearly, FDRD
must be expanded and strengthened in order to achieve this objective.
B. The Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation, and Planning Unit
3.03       The Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
(APMEPU), formerly known as the Northern Projects Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit, was established in July 1975 under the Funtua Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 1092-UNI). 1/  Its main purpose was to provide feedback to
Funtua, Gusau, and Gombe ADP management on issues of project evaluation, de-
sign, implementation and impact.  Later, under the Ayangba ADP (Loan 1455-UNI),
the geographic scope and functions of APMEPU were expanded and moreover,
planning functions were added.
3.04       APMEPU was originally established under the Federal Department of
Agriculture. However, following the creation of the Federal Department of
Rural Development (FDRD), it was placed under direct FDRD control. The head
of APMEPU reports directly to the Director FDRD. He is supported by a staff
of 18 professionals, 15 technical staff of various levels and a number of
support staff. At present, APMEPU operates five sections: evaluation and
monitoring, training, agronomy, planning, and administration and finance.
APMEPU serves nine ADPs. 2/  Since its inception, the total cost of operating
APMEPU has been N3.7 million (US$6.5 million), about 1.4% of the total cost
of Bank-assisted ADPs. The Bank contribution for APMEPU has been the foreign
exchange cost of its operation, US$2.1 million, 32% of total costs.
3.05       While a brief description of APMEPU's existing functions is given
below, its past performance is reviewed in Section C.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.06       To date, most of APMEPU-s resources have been devoted to developing,
conducting and processing a series of surveys. While these surveys are
designed by APMEPU, actual implementation of the surveys is undertaken by
respective project evaluation staff. However, APMEPU retains the responsi-
bility for further data validation and editing, and for final analysis.
The number of surveys conducted is presented below:
1/   Appraisal of Funtua Agricultural Development Project, Report 345a-UNI
September 6, 1974.
2/   Lafia, Ayangba, Bida, Ilorin, Oyo North, Ekiti Akoko, Funtua, Gusua,
and Gombe ADPs.



-8-
Survey Type                Number of Surveys Fielded (Through 1979)
Village Listing                                   8
Baseline                                          7
Agronomic                                        13
Farm Management                                  13
Prices                                           15
Most of the data processing has been done using the Statistical Package for
the Social Sciences (SPSS) at Ahmadu Bello University in Zaria and a limited
amount overseas. A more detailed discussion on the nature and history of
APMEPU surveys is in Annex II.
3.07      The Village Listing and Baseline Surveys help establish a sample
frame and describe base period cropping patterns, farm practices, and
initial wealth inventories. These surveys are administered once per project
unless the sample frame needs redefinition. The annual Agronomic Surveys are
primarily aimed at collecting plot-specific data on crop mixtures, plot
areas, and yields. The latest agronomic survey format is titled Field
Record for Agronomic Details, Yields, and Stands (FRADYS). There are a
variety of intensive Farm Management Surveys comprising weekly (occasionally
semi-weekly) farm visits for just over a year seeking detailed information
on labor and other inputs, production, disposal, farm and non-farm income,
and expenditure. In the past farm management surveys have been called
Mainline, Punchline, Deadline, 1/ and now Clearline (as the format evolved).
Prices Surveys are also run for agricultural inputs and outputs, consumer
commodities and durable goods. Furthermore, wealth inventories are collected
as part of baseline and at the close of the agronomic and farm management
surveys. There is also a Survey of Agricultural Knowledge (SOAK) which
reflects extension effectiveness. Finally, there have been a number of
project-initiated ad hoc surveys on such topics as the economics of oxen
cultivation, firewood use, and the extent of tractor hire. A list of ad hoc
surveys is in Annex II Table 4.
3.08      From initiation, APMEPU has maintained a functional separation
between its monitoring and evaluation functions. Monitoring project activi-
ties have largely been confined to quarterly project reports which have
emerged from within the projects. Monitoring reports were collated at
APMEPU level and disseminated to interested parties like FDRD, FMA, Bank and
the project management. 2/
1/   Deadline did not collect data on the timing of labor inputs.
2/   Although a case can be made that collecting data on prices, areas, and
yields, for example, is also monitoring, here these activities are
grouped with evaluation since they pertain to outcomes. In this
report, "monitoring" refers more to administrative and operational data
needs including progress updates on road construction, input supplies,
financial outlays, and the like.



-9-
Training
3.09      APMEPU's training section was established in August 1976.  The
unit's training functions included management and promotional training as
well as technical training specifically geared to project needs. Promotional
training was largely intended to upgrade enumerators to the supervisor
level, produce counterparts for project management, and impart broader
knowledge on issues which are peripheral but related to actual data collec-
tion such as metrication and basic statistics. Survey training was given to
evaluation officers and supervisors on the mechanics of survey implementation.
Agronomy
3.10      APMEPU's agronomy section was given responsibility for coordinating
agronomic advice, preparing crop recommendations, liaising with commercial
and research institutions, supplying expertise to the evaluation unit, and
planning and supervising research trials on projects. The section also
assisted with course development for project staff and farmer training.
Planning
3.11      The planning section was established during APMEPU's second phase
appraisal (Ayangba Loan 1455-UNI). The planning section's major responsi-
bilities were project identification, preparation of feasibility studies, and
training Nigerian staff in planning.
C. Review of APMEPU's Performance
3.12      In its 4 1/2 years of operation, APMEPU has developed into an
effective evaluation arm of FDRD. Beginning with almost no institutional
infrastructure and somewhat loosely defined means of achieving its objectives,
APMEPU has evolved into a prime source of farm, household and market data for
Nigeria. These data have proved of immense value in the identification and
preparation of the second generation statewide ADPs. APMEPU's baseline
surveys have also successfully identified initial living standards and farm
practices against which subsequent changes are being measured.  APMEPU data
now also provides a major input for a Bank-sponsored research project; Adop-
tion of Technology by Northern Nigeria Farmers (RPO 671-88). It is expected
that this research project would, inter alia, shed light on behavioral and
other aspects of the Nigerian smallholder farming community.  FDRD fully
supports this research and has agreed that the research use APMEPU farm data.
3.13      Despite its achievements, APMEPU cannot be regarded as being totally
"problem free".  One of its major shortcomings has been the imbalance between
data gathering and data analysis. This can partly be blamed on the unreliable
data processing facilities at the ABU computer center and partly on the lack
of analytical capacity. The latter can be related to APMEPU's rather broad
terms of reference, and the consequent wide ambit of its surveys. As would be
seen from Annex 2, Table 1, in the past, survey results have in some cases
been delayed; in fact, many of the earlier surveys have taken two or three
years to reach processing. Besides monitoring and evaluation, APMEPU was
also meant to provide other support services (para :3.09-3.11) to the ADPs.



- 10 -
training was largely intended to upgrade enumerators to the supervisor
level, produce counterparts for project management, and impart broader
knowledge on issues which are peripheral but related to actual data collec-
tion such as metrication and basic statistics. Survey training was given to
evaluation officers and supervisors on the mechanics of survey implementation.
Agronomy
3.10      APMEPU's agronomy section was given responsibility for coordinating
agronomic advice, preparing crop recommendations, liaising with commercial
Results have been mixed, with good support being provided in the early years,
when APMEPU only served five projects 1/ to less satisfactory performance more
recently, when the geographic spread of APMEPU's activities became more than
it could properly handle.
Evaluation
3.14      Some of the important factors which have hampered APMEPU's evalua-
tion function are:
-  the broad scope of its original terms of reference and the long gestation
period required to design and establish a multi-stage statistical data
collection system;
-  vague definitions of objectives and the breadth of data needed to meet
them which have lead to the generation of extensive data sets. This has
detracted APMEPU from the speedy production of statistics on prices, and
yields, for example;
-  the relative novelty of monitoring and evaluation and the general lack of
appreciation for this effort amongst project staff. There was almost no
foundation on which to build an evaluation system;
-  the persistent difficulties in achieving planned staffing levels which
were aggravated by high turnover rates and no initial allowances for
in-house programming or data entry staff; and
-  the perennial computer difficulties ranging from lengthy down-time, power
failures, low access priority, the computer's remoteness from Kaduna, to
a shortage of outside programmers.
3.15      In addition to these obstacles, the lack of functional specialization
of responsibilities has constrained the analytical capacity of the scarce
staff, who have been too thinly spread. Therefore, a simple increase in
numbers of staff will not suffice and consequently, restructuring of APMEPU
and of M/E responsibilities is proposed to enable FDRD's technical staff to
focus on areas of their expertise.
3.16      Although over time APMEPU has, as a result of considerable experi-
mentation, developed standardized evaluation surveys which are based on a
1/   Funtua, Gusua, Gombe, Lafia and Ayangba ADPs.



- 11 -
generally sound methodology, there is further scope for refinement. One area
which deserves closer attention is the statistical basis of its surveys.
Questicns have arisen, for example, concerning the sample sizes required for
valid inferences, the method of yield assessment in a mixed cropping environ-
ment, and whether the plot or the farmer should be the unit of analysis in
particular contexts. In the past APMEPU evaluators were themselves determin-
ing the size and type of their samples. There is EL strong case for introduc-
ing more expertise into this process. It is proposed (para 4.04) that a
full-time statistician improve the survey design, aLdvise on biases, select
sample sizes, test hypotheses and assist with interpretation.
3.17      APMEPU is fully aware of its weaknesses and continuous efforts
are underway to further refine the evaluation process with a view to fully
reflect the needs of the "end users". In this regard, periodic meetings
arranged between project management and evaluators have usefully contributed
to evolution of APMEPU's evaluation system. It is proposed that in future
such interchange of views be more formalized (para 4.04). APMEPU has also
considerably improved its approach to evaluation surveys, with decreased
emphasis on the more elaborate farm management-type surveys. Moreover,
routine surveys have been standardized, manuals of instructions prepared and
data validation procedures set. This, coupled with the processing completed
overseas, has resulted in eliminating a substantial portion of the backlog and
the resultant data is begun to be fed to the concerned project management
(Annex 2, Table 3). The data files offer largely unmined opportunities for
productive research. Provisions are therefore being made for special studies
by universities and other research-oriented bodies (para 4.04).
Monitoring
3.18      APMEPU-s monitoring of administrative activities and cost streams
has been almost non-existent. However, any assessment of APMEPU monitoring
activities cannot ignore the practical limitations imposed on a central unit
in deali-ng with the current activities of the highly independent projects.
Project management has strongly resisted the idea that monitoring be conducted
from APIMEPU level. Aside from this resistance, difficulties were created
because of the lack of satisfactory physical recording and cost accounting
procedures at the project level. Despite the limitations, APNEPU has made
some positive efforts in establishing a monitoring system based on a quarterly
reporting system.
3.19      With the introduction of the statewide projects and the ADA program,
there is now a strong rationale for strengthening F]DRD-s management information
systems. Recognizing the practical limitations of monitoring such widely dis-
persed projects from a central unit, it has been agreed that APMEPU would
retain technical responsibility for evaluation and the collection of agricul-
tural production and farm-based socio-economic data. FACU, through the FASUs,
would have full responsibility for monitoring the physical and financial
progress of the ADP/ADA program, through a reliable management information
reporting system.



- 12 -
Agronomy and Training
3.20      APMEPU had two separate sections dealing with agronomy and
training. APNEPU's agricultural staff prepared the crop recommendations
for early implementation on all projects and annually advised on neces-
sary modifications. The agronomy section was especially active in liais-
ing with national and international research institutes and coordinated
project-level research trials. The International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture and the Institute for Agricultural Research at Samaru are
actively involved in trial programs on the northern ADPs. The agronomy
section conducted field trials to answer project-specific questions and
advised project technical staff on the content of extension and training
programs. The agronomists also assisted APMEPU's evaluation section and
project evaluation officers in formulating questionnaires and in the techni-
cal interpretation of data. Staff of the agronomy section contributed to
training courses at all levels. More recently, APNEPU agronomy section has
become less supportive of ADPs. The main reason for this is the growing
numbers of ADPs, and more importantly, the varied nature of their demands.
The introduction of the statewide projects would further lengthen APMEPU's
response time and detract from its effectiveness as a support body. It is,
therefore, critical that the support for agronomy be reorganized and decen-
tralized according to Nigeria's agroecological zones and located in close
proximity to ongoing and proposed research.
3.21      Initially, APNEPU-s training role was broader than simply that of
advice and support to projects.   Most projects were without training
officers, and consequently APMEPU had to organize and run training courses.
For example, APMEPU, with assistance from the Kaduna Polytechnic, ran
periodic courses for project commercial services staff. APMEPU also actively
initiated the concept of management training at the project level. In
sum, APMEPU-s training section provided effective project support, and its
major contribution perhaps was to emphasize to project planners, the need
for including special training components in the second generation ADPs.
APNEPU's training activities, however, like the rest, were hampered by the
increasing demands placed on its staff by the growing numbers of ADPs, and
the difficulties inherent in coordinating the training activities of geo-
graphically dispersed projects.  Concurrently, it has become important that
high-quality training advice and guidance be provided to the new ADPs which
contain substantial training investment components.
Planning
3.22      Under the Ayangba Loan (1455-UNI), planning functions were added
to APMEPU-s other responsibilities. There was good rationale behind this
because APMEPU had ready access to key project planning data and over time
its staff have gained a good overview of project implementation. APMEPU
played a leading role in preparing the Kaduna, Bauchi, Sokoto, and Kano
statewide ADPs, and in coordinating the activities of individual project
preparation teams. More recently, however, staff constraints have in-
creasingly prevented APMEPU from being more directly involved in project
preparation. In fact APMEPU's planning functions, like its other support



- 13 -
activities have come under severe strain. The introduction of the ADP concept
in the tree crop zones has by itself raised issues of project design with
which APMEPU is not fully familiar since its experience is largely limited to
Northern Nigeria. The planning requirements of the ADA program are enormous,
and it would not be possible for APMEPU to meet the planning needs of the
15 participating states. In future therefore, while APMEPU would continue to
provide a critical planning input, its planning responsibility would devolve
to the FASUs (para 4.03).
Summary
3.23      On the basis of APNEPU's experience, and the projected monitoring,
evaluation and planning needs of the Food Plan, APMEPU's future role would
be reoriented to take advantage of its achievements and expertise in evalua-
tion and monitoring production and socio-economic data and survey design.
Monitoring and planning, which have proved difficult for one, centralized body
to perform adequately, will be transferred to the new FACU/FASU structure, to
support the actual implementation of the ADP/ADA program.
IV. PROJECT PROPOSALS
General
4.01      The primary objective of the project is to provide, through tech-
nical assistance and related logistical support, the means of strengthening
and expanding the Rural Development Department within the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture, and develop its capability to coordinale progress toward national
goals for agricultural production. By assisting thea states in the development
and implementation of the National Food Plan, FDRD would be reorganized,
expanded and staffed with trained and experienced personnel, initially through
international recruitment. A secondary objective would be to provide assist-
ance to four critical and related institutions to ensure the adequacy of
important support programs for the National Food Plan. The project would:
(a) strengthen and expand Federal evaluation and policy-making
capability through additional support to APNEPU;
(b)  support and monitor ongoing and new ADPs and the ADA program
through the establishment of FACU and four FASUs; and
(c)  strengthen the operations of NGB, NACB, LPU and other supporting
agricultural institutions.
The project would assist the Nigerian Federal and State Governments in
establishing and testing institutional relationships for agricultural
development in Nigeria. It would support implementation of the Food Plan in
the 1981-1985 period, especially by introducing proc:edures for planning,
implementation and funding.



- 14 -
Detailed Features
A. Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
Unit - APMEPU
4.02      Policy Strategy.  Any development proposals for APMEPU must
necessarily take account of its past performance and future role. Whereas
APMEPU has, over time, strengthened its evaluation role, its effectiveness
in providing monitoring and other types of support services has been gradually
diminishing. During the project, therefore, APMEPU would be aligned more
closely with its area of expertise--evaluation--which would permit it to
cater for the expanded work program that would accompany the growing number of
ADPs and the ADA program.
4.03      APMEPU's proposed evaluation program during 1981-85 is in Annex 2
Table 3, and its linkages and obligations to the ADA program are enumerated in
para 4.05. It is proposed that in future, APNEPU act as centrally located
evaluation unit linking into a network of decentralized project-based Monitor-
ing/Evaluation (M/E) Units. APMEPU functions would include: (a) methodo-
logical and analytical support to project M/E Units; (b) training for survey
implementation higher level project evaluation staff; and (c) quality control
of data generation, processing and analytical work related to evaluation.
4.04      To achieve the above objectives it is proposed that APMEPU:
- be operated as a specialized unit focusing on collecting production data,
and evaluating farm management and socioeconomic information;
- training functions be limited to training of evaluation officers, a small
amount of promotional training of enumerators from enclave ADPs, and some
workshops for FASU/MIS staff (Annex 3);
- senior technical staff be expanded over present effective levels, to
include evaluation officers, programmers, full-time trainers, and a
statistician;
- give more responsibility to projects for survey initiation, implementa-
tion, and initial validation and editing. APMEPU should continue ensuring
quality control and providing support in data validation, editing,
processing, and preparing summary statistics and analysis. APNEPU would
provide data analysis for the ADAs as well as for the ADPs;
- reduce the frequency of the time-consuming and detailed farm management
surveys. The statistician should review the frequency of household
visits. APMEPU should supply to project management a planned survey
schedule for the project, on the basis of which a mutually agreed work
program would be implemented. APMEPU's informal project manager meeting
would be held annually, to help determine the direction of APMEPU
evaluation activities;
- budget provisions include appropriations for involving universities and
special consultants to carry out more detailed evaluation and research
studies primarily using the existing set of structured and cleaned farm



- 15 -
management data. At least one senior evaluat:Lon officer cum policy
analyst with demonstrated econometric and statistical skills should
be devoted full time at APMEPU to studying the origins of changes in
farming practices, market forces, and standards of living in an in-depth
manner, and to compiling sectoral summaries of production and agricultural
development from all the ADAs and ADPs; and
-  for evaluation purposes establish its own minicomputer facility linked to
project-based micro computers and with adequate back-up services includ-
ing a multi-tiered maintenance provision.
4.05      The APMEPU/ADP/ADA Evaluation Relationships.  APMEPU's role in the
ADA Program would be confined to providing guidance and advice on monitoring
and evaluation of ADA results. In this regard, APMEPU would interact with the
Federal Agricultural Support Units (FASUs) and the apex Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit (FACU), and use as input the results of the FASU's MIS data
as well as APMEPU-coordinated farm management and F'RADYS surveys undertaken by
ADA/ADP field staff. Detailed proposals for ADA evaluation studies are in
Annex IV. It is anticipated, however, that ADA implementation would give
greater priority to monitoring, as an aid to project implementation and to
establish a sound basis for a future ADP. APMEPU's responsibilities to the
ADA program would be:
- Survey Procedures. To provide survey forms, uanuals and procedures to
the ADAs; to help establish a sample frame to modify and simplify, as
necessary, repetitive surveys such as the annual areas and yields survey,
the wealth inventory and the abbreviated retail price survey.
- Training. To provide training to ADP and ADA evaluation officers in
survey implementation. APNEPU's training obligations to the ADAs and
ADPs are detailed in Annex 3.
- Data Processing. To provide data processing for the ADP and ADA evalua-
tion surveys and return standardized summary tables and computer printout
to the ADPs, FACU and FASUs for further interpretation. These summaries
would contain, at a minimum, estimates of project production by foodcrop,
changes in wealth inventories in unit or value terms, and retail food
price effects. The first phase of data validation and editing will be
completed at project level.
- Liaison and Compilation. To provide an integrated sectoral overview of
production by drawing on the evaluation summaries of both the ADAs and
ADPs.
4.06      To help APMEPU achieve its redefined objectives, the project would
assist in providing:
- technical assistance in project evaluation, training and data processing;
- infrastructure, vehicles and equipment; and
- a minicomputer-base data processing facility.



- 16 -
4.07      Organization.  APMEPU would remain as part of the Federal Depart-
ment of Rural Development (FDRD) with its head reporting directly to the
Director FDRD. APMEPU would continue to operate at Kaduna, with a small field
office in Benin City. APMEPU-s proposed reorganization is shown at World Bank
Chart No. 21850.
4.08       At the apex of APMEPU would be its administrative head.  Four
divisions would report to him: administration and finance, evaluation,
training, and data processing. The data processing division would service
all others. Individual responsibilities of the divisions would be:
-    Administration and Finance. Administrative tasks would be placed
under a Deputy Head to ease the management burden of the evaluation
officers.
-    Evaluation.  To ensure functional specialization, it is proposed
that the evaluation section oversee three sections: one respon-
sible for survey training, another in charge of data analysis/
policy planning, and the third responsible for survey design and
field implementation. More specifically, the surveys section would
design or modify surveys, provide quality control and support
field survey implementation, and prepare field data from enclave
ADPs for entry into the computer. For statewide ADPs and the
ADAs, initial validation and editing would be completed at the
project site and cleaned data will be supplied to APMEPU for
analysis. The data analysis and policy planning section would
focus on the interpretation of computer or hand-extracted results
and on report-writing, accomplished in close collaboration with the
project evaluation officers and other key members of project manage-
ment. This section will also undertake sector work while using
APMEPU project data. The training section would concentrate on
survey training of evaluation officers from the ADPs and ADAs.
The training would be of a "modular" type concentrating on facili-
tating a complete understanding of survey implementation. APMEPU
promotional training would be organized for enumerators from enclave
ADPs. APMEPU would make a training officer responsible for helping
develop appropriate training courses for project evaluation staff
and for supporting training of supervisors and enumerators at the
project level. Detailed training proposals, including costs, are in
Annex 3 Table 2.
Data Processing and Minicomputer.  The data processing division
which would be headed by a statistician will comprise a programming
unit and a computer operation and maintenance unit which will also
manage data entry. APMEPU has an identified need for a reliable



- 17 -
data processing facility 1/ capable of processing input from
project-based micro computer systems. Software development for this
activity for micro computers would also be APMEPU's responsibility.
Work in this regard has already begun, with Bank assistance, and the
system is being field-tested. The project: provides funds for consul-
tants to finalize computer requirements for APMEPU, the FACU and ~he
FASUs, to prepare tender documents and to help supervise installation
of the computer facilities. Since it is anticipated that most data
would be entered on to "floppy disks" at the project level, APNEPU
would acquire a micro computer to transfer these data into the main
facility. This micro computer would be in addition to the micro
needed by the FACU to develop an input monitoring and cost account-
ing system. Maintenance is critical to the efficient operation and
reliability of APNEPU's data processing facility. It is proposed
that APMEPU be equipped with a six-month supply of basic spare
parts, and have several levels of maintenance support: (a) a full-
time systems programmer for the first year; (b) in-house staff
trained in routine hardware and software maintenance; (c) maintenance
visits by outside short-term consultants, probably on a twice-yearly
schedule; and (d) an emergency vendor maintenance contract costed on
a per episode basis.
4.09      Staffing.  Given the highly technical nature of evaluation work, and
in view of APMEPU's focal role, it is important that the unit have highly
trained and experienced staff. Nigeria is generally short of such staff and
moreover, in the past, APMEPU's efforts to recruit indigenous staff have been
frustrated, owing to the relative scarcity of experienced technical personnel,
intense competition for the few that exist, and the uncompetitive nature of
civil service salaries. Recently, APMEPU has intensified its search for
Nigerian evaluation officers, and some success is expected. Nevertheless, in
the project provision has been made for international recruitment of the
following key staff:
1/   Three reports review APMEPU's data processing iieeds:
a)   Review of ABU Computer Centre and APMEPU Data Processing Require-
ments by Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Coy, 'September 21, 1979;
b)   APNEPU Computer Feasibility Study by National Computing Centre,
February 1979; and
c)   Computer System Requirements:  Study and Aknalysis for APMEPU at
Kaduna, Nigeria by Phoenix Associates, Inc., June 1980.
Costings in this report are for an APMEPU computer facility capable
of a full version of SPSS and having a core memory of one million
bytes. The consultants would review the computer hardware and software
and propose revisions if necessary.



- 18 -
- Evaluation and Training Staff include the chief evaluation officer,
two senior evaluation officers responsible for data analysis, a senior
evaluation officer responsible for agricultural policy studies, two
survey design and implementation specialists, one evaluation officer
responsible for data validation and coding, and two evaluation officers
in charge of training; and
- Data Processing Staff include a chief statistician and two senior
programmers:  one in.charge of the minicomputer and the other responsible
for all micro compilers at the project level.
4.10      Terms of reference for the key staff are given in Annex V. Most
expatriate employees are expected to be replaced by Nigerians in PY4. More-
over, as part of their terms of reference, all expatriates would be required
to participate in the training of their deputies as designated successors.
B. Federal Support for ADPs and ADAs
4.11      Policy and Strategy.  As stated earlier (para 4.02), with an
expanded ADP program it has become extremely difficult for APMEPU to con-
tinue providing adequate and effective technical support to these projects.
The introduction of statewide projects and ADAs would, obviously, place
additional strains on APNEPU's technical expertise. It is, therefore,
essential that APNEPU's existing technical support functions be decentra-
lized on a regional basis. Accordingly, it is proposed to set up four
Federal Agricultural Support Units (FASUs) which would relate to Nigeria's
major agro-ecological zones and which would be closely linked to ongoing and
proposed agronomic research. To ensure strong coordination among FASUs and
to help acquire an overall appreciation of the country's agricultural
program, it is proposed to establish, at the apex, a Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit (FACU). FASUs would be responsible for the ADP/ADAs in
the following states:
FASU Location              ADAs                        ADPs (includes
statewide projects)
Jos                   Gongola, Plateau,          Lafia, Ayangba, Bida
Niger, Benue, Borno
Enugu                 Imo, Anambra, Rivers,      Imo/Anambra Rice
Cross River, Bendel
Kaduna                                            Kano, Bauchi, Borno
Sokoto, Kaduna
Ibadan                Oyo, Ogun, Ondo            Oyo North, Ekiti Akoko,
Lagos, Kwara               Ilorin



- 19 -
-.12      The FASUs would monitor the implementation of the Food Production
Jlan. specifically the progress of the ADPs and ADAs. In particular, the
FASUs would provide the processing mechanism for release of Federal grants
(llw ecluivalent to 25% of the ADP cost or ADA program) to the States. The
assessment would be made on the basis of quarterly progress reports and
regular visits to the states.  FDRD s proposed guidelines for ADA participa-
tion by the States include:
-  preparation by the states of ADA projects in conjunction with FASU,
following general criteria established by FDRD. The formalization
of these criteria would be a condition for effectiveness (para 2.17);
-  submission, with the ADA proposal, of an organization and staffing
plan for ADA implementation acceptable to th,e FACU, including a training
plan as appropriate;
- establishment of separate ADA accounts under the State Ministry of
Agriculture (or any other implementing unit established or chosen to
administer the ADA project at State level) and annual audit of this
account; and
The FASU would monitor the physical and financial implementation of the ADA
program, while APMEPU would monitor the agricultural production.
4.13      Organization.  The FACU organization is shown on World Bank Chart
No. 21849. FACU would serve as a small coordinating unit under the Federal
Director of Rural Development. It would develop a standardized financial
and physical management information system for key project activities, suit-
able for micro computer manipulations. The system will aim at identifying
cost overruns, unit cost discrepancies, and delays and bottlenecks in input
deliveries. Progress summaries on feeder road construction, infrastructure
development such as storage capacity, and staffing data will also be tabu-
lated. As the apex institution, FACU would maintain close links with other
federal or national organizations like the Federal Ministry of Science and
Technology, the agro-allied Division of the Federal Ministry of Industries,
the National and International Research Institutes, the national fertilizer
marketing company, and the National Seed Service. A consulting firm would
provide a team of four experts to the FACU to advise on rural water supply
(Annex 7). Reporting to the FACU head would be the heads of the four FASUs.
FASUs would, however, enjoy a large degree of autonomy within their respective
areas of influence. They would consult with FACU only on matters of general
policy and for annual budgetary approval. However, in the case of the agro-
industrial development and support section, a close coordination would be
maintained between the experts assigned to each FASU and the team leader
assigned to FACU. Each FASU would comprise five sections, namely planning,
agronomy and extension training, management information, rural infrastruc-
ture, and agro-related industrial development and support. While detailed
terms of reference for all sections are in Annex 5, a summary of responsibil-
ities is given below.



- 20 -
-  the Planning Section would be responsible for assisting states in identi-
fying and planning new ADPs and ADAs;
-  the Agronomy and Extension Training Section would be primarily responsible
for providing technical advice related to crops including preparation of
formal annual crop recommendations and assistance in developing ADP/ADA
staff and farmer training courses. An important function of this section
would be liaison with research institutes to ensure that research programs
are directly geared to solving problems at field level;
-  the Management Information Section (MIS) would monitor the physical and
financial progress of the ADPs and ADAs. A simple but reliable cost-based
management information system would be developed that would not only
enhance reporting systems, but would also provide management with informa-
tion to allow for better and more timely decision making (paras 3.19 and
4.03);
-  the Rural Infrastructure Section (RIS) is primarily meant to serve the
needs of the ADA/ADP feeder roads program. RIS would assist states in
the planning and subsequent supervision of ADA feeder roads, as well as
support ADAs and ADPs in the preparation and review of rural water pro-
grams, to provide simple and low-cost irrigation systems (Annex 7) and
low cost potable water to communities not served by state water boards;
and
-  the Agro-Industrial Development Section (AIDS) would be responsible for
the determination of needs for processing and storage units particularly
related to the ADPs, for the determination of appropriate technologies
required, for the identification of entrepreneurs willing and able to
undertake the implementation of the necessary units, and for their
support. An important function of this section, through the team leader
attached to FACU, would be liaison with the Ministry of Industries and
with the financial sector.
4.14      Staffing.  Since FASUs would be in an advisory role providing tech-
nical support to the states, it is important that highly trained and experi-
enced staff be recruited. The project has therefore provided funds for inter-
national recruitment of the following key staff in each FASU: chief of unit,
senior agricultural planner, cost accountant, senior management information
officer, senior training and staff development officer, senior agronomist,
extension trainer, senior civil engineer, rural civil engineer, and agro-
industrial expert. Other specialists would be provided to cover topics (e.g.
small implements, soil and water conservation) of concern to a particular
FASU (Annex 6). The project would also provide funds for the international
recruitment of key FACU staff including program coordinator, financial con-
troller, rural infrastructure coordinator, agro-industrial coordinator, rice
milling expert, financial and banking expert, communication specialist,
management information officer, financial analyst, senior agricultural planner,
seniot extension coordinator, senior training coordinator, and four water
supply experts. Provision has also been made for 72 staff-montxtXs of cotns'ul-
tants in PY1 to help FACU management set up the FACU and the FASUs. Annex 6
gives terms of reference for all the FACU and FASU staff, while Annex 7 gives
terms of reference for the rural water supply team.



- 21 -
C. Other Agricultural Support Programs
4.15      Apart from actions anticipated under the ADP/ADA Programs, and the
proposed support from FACU/FASU/APMEPU operations, increased food production
and farm income would depend on the efficiency of a number of key institutions.
The Federal Government has requested the Bank to assist in strengthening these
institutions.
4.16      Nigerian Grains Board (NGB).  Successful implementation of the Food
Production Plan will generate temporary and regional surpluses, and unless
pro'per marketing arrangements are made, lower producer prices could provide
disincentives to farmer's adopting new technologies. It is therefore necessary
that NGB be strengthened to help develop market intelligence, market structure,
storage and handling procedures and to properly perform its regulatory func-
tions. As an initial measure, late in 1980, FMA, with the support of the
Bank, engaged a team of five consultants under the Ilorin ADP (Loan 1668-UNI)
for this purpose. Results so far have been good and it is proposed to extend
this consultancy assistance for three years under this project.
4.17      Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Baink (NACB).  If the growing
credit needs of farmers are to be met, a rapid and substantial improvement in
the institutional credit system has to be effected. NACB was established in
1974 as the lending institution for agricultural credit, but its performance
has never been fully satisfactory. An FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP)
mission which visited Nigeria in late 1980 confirned serious weaknesses in the
workings of this institution and in its procedures. The main problems are
reflected in poor loan disbursement and recovery records with respect to
volume and timeliness. NACB needs to be urgently strengthened, through
the provision of a management advisory and operat:ions team to streamline the
procedures for effective disbursement and recovery of agricultural loans. An
agricultural credit project will shortly be prepared by the CP. The project
would aim mainly at strengthening the credit institutions at national and
state level, and develop NACB as an apex institution for on-lending for
agricultural development through state credit institutions. Until such a
project is implemented, it is proposed to provide a team of five experts to
the NACB for three years. As well as initiating operations to streamline the
credit disbursement and recovery procedures, they would help prepare the
future national agricultural credit project.
4.18      Livestock Project Unit (LPU).  The proposed state-wide ADPs, par-
ticularly those in Northern Nigeria, plan to encourage integration of live-
stock with arable farming, in order to utilize surplus crop residues generated
by farmers adopting new agricultural practices. Some farmers will also be
assisted to take up oxen cultivation. These farmers will need technical
advice and loans to buy cattle, for cultivation where feasible and also for
sale after fattening. The Livestock Project (Loan 1091-UNI) has already
initiated this program through the existing ADPs, and will be completed by
January 1982.  Although the Livestock Project initially experienced serious
problems, particularly concerning its management and credit components, these
have now been overcome. LPU is now being managed successfully by an experi-
enced firm of livestock consultants. The Government is strongly committed to



- 24' -
livestock development, and has asked for Bank support to extend the con-
sultants- contract for a further two years. A livestock sector mission
reviewed the entire livestock situation in the country during February 1981
and made recommendations for further development, but it will be some time
before a follow-up project can be prepared and implemented. In the meantime,
it is necessary to provide technical support to LPU once the Livestock Project
is completed, in order to continue the present livestock development work.
This input would not only assist the ADP livestock programs but would also
ensure the continuity and development of a wide range of activities related to
livestock production and marketing. A team of ten experts would be provided
for two years under the project.
4.19      Other Institutions.  The project would support other institutions,
whose technical assistance needs are still to be agreed by FGN and the Bank.
Among the agencies under discussion are the other commodity boards, and the
national fertilizer marketing company, the commercially operated, public
company to be set up at the national level for the procurement and distribu-
tion of fertilizers to the states.
4.20          Staffing.  It is important that highly trained and experienced
staff be recruited for these important supporting agencies.  The project
has provided funds for international recruitment of consultants: five key
staff per year for three years each for Nigerian Grains Board and NACB, 10 key
staff for two years for LPU, and an additional 15 staff-years for other
supporting institutions.  The terms of reference for consultant assistance to
these agencies would be agreed with the Bank and included in the contracts
drawn up between FMA and the consultants. As the four institutions to be
serviced are large and are budgeted under existing Federal plans, there is no
need to provide additional logistical support under the project to service the
internationally-recruited staff.
D. Recruitment Procedures
4.21      The project would provide funds for the recruitment of specialist
(mostly international) staff totalling 318 staff-years: 253 staff-years for
FDRD (14 specialists for APMEPU, 16 for FACU, and 12 to 14 for each of the
four FASUs, 48 in all: para 4.14, Annexes 5, 6 and 7), and 65 staff-years for
NACB, NGB, LPU and other supporting institutions (para 4.20).
4.22      Recruitment would be through a number of channels and would differ
by unit:
-  APMEPU, now established for five years, would be encouraged to recruit
its own staff either individually or through consultant firms. Where
necessary, APMU (West Africa Region-s Agricultural Project Management
Unit) would assist;
-  FACU staff would be recruited primarily by APMU, in the case of individual
consultants, by the FACU itself, and, for the water supply specialists,
from a consulting firm;



- 23 -
-  FASU staff would be recruited through consuliting firms.  It is envisaged
that a selected firm would contract to provide the staff for a single
FASU; and
-  Assistance for NGB, NACB, LPU and other related institutions would
be provided by consulting firms.
4.23      APMU recruitment would be entirely international; however, in the
case of consultant firms, it is expected that a mix of expatriate and
Nigerian staff would be recruited, and encouragement would be given to joint
ventures between qualified expatriate and Nigerian firms as has been done
recently under a number of Bank-financed agricultural feasibility studies.
For the recruitment of agro-industrial specialists, the Bank's West Africa
Industrial Development and Finance Division would assist in recruiting the
AIDS experts as a team.
4.24      Key staff, whether recruited through consultant firms or as individu-
als, would have qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank. Consultant firms would be expected to recruit staff and service
their contracts, and provide from time to time back-up support services.
4.25      It is estimated that the average cost per staff-year would be about
US$94,000. This includes base salary, allowances, international travel, com-
pany overheads and fees. This rate is considered competitive under Nigerian
conditions.
E. Training
4.26      With the priority attached to agriculture under the Fourth National
Development Plan, FDRD and the supporting agricultural institutions are likely
to expand considerably during the Plan period. This expansion will place
further stress on the availability and quality of Nigerian staff. In APNEPU,
FACU and the FASUs, the total Nigerian professional staff in the project will
eventually number 223, representing an input of about 1,000 staff-years.
Existing training by APMEPU of field staff and enumerators will be expanded
(Annex 3). Although clearly the assistance provided under the project does
have short term objectives to support implementation of the Food Plan, the
internationally recruited experts provided to the implementing agencies will
have specific responsibilities for training Nigerians for the long-term
operations of the institutions. Fairly senior and experienced staff at GL
10-12 will be recruited, and will receive local, on-the-job and overseas
training under programs to be developed by FACU with the help of special
training consultants. FACU monitoring would ensure that these training
objectives were addressed and carried through. The specifics of the training
programs would be developed by FACU to complement the curricula now being
designed by the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI),
established under Loan 1719-UNI, and already in operation at existing training
institutions in Nigeria. Management trainers in the FASUs and at FACU would
develop in-service training and staff development programs, and would identify
suitable external courses, in Nigeria and overseas, for participation by FMA
staff. A special allocation of 60 staff months of consultants would assist



- 24 -
in developing courses for middle level technologists. FACU's cost estimates
also contain US$600,000 for overseas training of Nigerian personnel (about 480
months at US$1,250 per month, plus price contingencies).
F. Project Costs
4.27      Total project costs during the five year development period 1981-
1985 are estimated at N66.1 million (US$120.1 million) of which N25.8 million
(US$47.0 million) or 32% would be foreign exchange costs. If taxes and duties
are excluded, total costs would be about N61.8 million (US$112.4 million).
A summary of project cost estimates is presented in Table 3.
Table 3:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  % of  x of
--(N million)-----  ---(US$ million)---  Base  Total
Costs Costs
I.   APMEPU
Staff Costs                       2.7    1.9    4.6       4.9   3.5      8.4     9      7
Buildings                         0.2    0.1    0.3       0.3   0.1      0.5     1      *
Vehicles and Equipment            0.5    0.7    1.1       0.9   1.2      2.1     2      2
Operating Costs                   4.0    0.4    4.4       7.2   0.7      7.9     9      7
Consultant Services               0.1    0.7    0.8       0.1   1.2      1.3     1      1
Training (Local per Diems)        0.6      -    0.6       1.1     -      1.1     1      1
Minicomputer                        -    0.4    0.4         -   0.7      0.7     1      1
Subtotal                     8.0    4.2   12.2      14.5   7.6    22.1   25       18
II. SUPPORT TO FDRD 1/
Staff Costs                      10.0    8.0   18.0      18.1  14.4    32.4    36      27
Buildings                         0.9    0.4    1.3       1.7   0.7      2.4     3      2
Vehicles and Equipment            1.5    2.3    3.8       2.8   4.2      7.0     8      6
Operating Costs                   7.5    1.3    8.7      13.5   2.3    15.9    18      13
Overseas Training                 0.0    0.3    0.3       0.0   0.6     0.6      1      *
Consultant Services 2/            0.3    1.7    2.0       0.6   3.1     3.7      4      3
Subtotal                    20.1    14.0   34.1     36.7  25.4    62.0    69      52
III. OTHER TECHNICAL SUPPORT 3/  0.3    3.0    3.3        0.5   5.5     6.0      7      5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 28.4   21.1  49.6       51.6  38.5    90.1  100       75
Physical Contingencies            1.4    1.1    2.5       2.6  1.9      4.5      5      4
Price Contingenices              10.4    3.6   14.0      18.9   6.6    25.5    28      21
11.8    4.7   16.5     21.5   8.5    30.0   33        25
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS   40.2   25.8   66.1       73.1  47.0   120.1  133    100
Totals may not add because of rounding.
*    Less than 0.5%.
11   Comprised of FACU and four FASUs.
21 Including consultants to FACU for rural water supply and rice milling.
3/  To NGB, NACB, LPU and other supporting agencies.



- 25 -
4.28      Base costs are calculated using prices obtained during appraisal
and updated to levels expected to prevail in January 1981. Costs include
physical contingencies, equal to 5% of base costs, and price contingencies.
Price contingencies are calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies
and are compounded annually using the following annual rates: on local
salaries and allowances, 10%, on all other local costs, 15%; and on foreign
costs, 9% in PYI, 8.5% in PY2 and 7.5% thereafter. Price contingencies are
equivalent to 21% of total costs.
G. Proposed Financing
4.29      Of the total project cost of N66.1 million (US$120.1 million)
the Bank would finance N25.85 million (US$47.0 million) at the lending rate
of interest current at the time of loan approval and for a period of 20
years including a five year grace period. The Bank loan would represent 39%
of project costs or 42% of costs net of taxes, and would be approximately
equal to the foreign exchange component. FGN would finance 61% of project
costs (N40.1 million). Prior to utilizing additional funds provided under
this project for APMEPU, the remaining funds for APMEPU under the Ayangba Loan
(1455-UNI) would be drawn down.
Table 4:  SUMMARY OF FINANCING PLAN
(N million)
Total Cost    IBRD    FGN
Buildings                  1.9          0.6      1.3
Vehicles and Equipment    6.4           3.7      2.7
Internationally
recruited staff and
consultant services      21.2          21.2     --
Overseas training          0.4           0.4
Local staff costs,
rents, general services
and operating costs      36.1            --   36.1
Total (N mn rounded)      66.1          25.9   40.1
(US$ million)       120.1        47.0   73.1
Percentage                100           39      61



- 26 -
H. Procurement
4.30      Vehicles and equipment, including a minicomputer, valued at a cost
of N6.4 million (US$11.6 million), and civil works contracts valued at over
US$1 million would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for less than US$200,000 could
be awarded according to local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank. For contracts of less than US$60,000 direct competitive shopping
would be employed. Items for procurement would be bulked to permit optimum
use of competitive bidding. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed
a 15% preference or the applicable import duties whichever may be lower, when
comparing bids with those of foreign manufacturers in procurement under ICB.
As experience has shown that contracts for ADP buildings are not attractive to
foreign contractors due to dispersed locations, the small size of contracts
and the competitiveness of local contractors, building contracts estimated to
cost less than US$1 million (total value about N1.4 million (US$2.5 million))
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. Services of
consultants and internationally recruited staff valued at N21.2 million
(US$38.5 million) would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
I. Disbursements
4.31      The Bank loan would be disbursed, during 1981-85, as follows:
Category I:       35% of the cost of buildings, totalling US$1.1
million;
Category II:      100% of the foreign expenditures for directly
imported vehicles, equipment, components and
spare parts, or 55% of total expenditures, if
locally procured, totalling US$6.2 million;
Category III:    100% of the cost of salaries and allowances for
internationally recruited staff, and the cost of
consultant services for APMEPU, FASU and the FASUs,
overseas training and studies, totalling US$28.0
million;
Category IV:      100% of the cost of consultant services for support
to related agricultural institutions, totalling
US$7.0 million; and
Category V:      An unallocated amount of US$4.7 million.
All expenditures would be fully documented and disbursement for all catego-
ries would be made only against authorized contracts. Bank reimbursements
will be made directly to the APMEPU or FACU commercial bank accounts. In
order to allow for early implementation of the project, retroactive financing
of up to US$600,000 would be made available for key staff and consultants
employed after March 1, 1981.



- 27 -
J. Accounts and Audit:
4.32      APMEPU, FACU and FASUs would keep financial records in accordance
with sound accounting practices to reflect their operational and financial
positions and would have these audited by a firm of independent external
auditors acceptable to the Bank. APMEPU's data processing center would be
operated on a commercial basis with accounts maintained for time utilized
by each job and for any outside users. The audited accounts and the auditors'
reports, including a statement as to whether Bank funds had been used for
their intended purpose, would be submitted to the Bank within four months at
the end of the fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations. States implementing ADA projects would also keep appropriate
accounts and financial records, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
which would be subject to audit by outside examiners and inspection by FASU
accountants. FACU, on behalf of FMA, would monitor the manpower input by
consultants to support in other related agricultural institutions and would
process disbursement applications.
K. Programming and Budgeting
4.33      Annual budgets would be prepared by APMEPU and FACU.  The latter
would operate budgets on behalf of all FASUs. APMEPU and FACU budget pro-
posals would be based on appraisal estimates amended, where necessary, to
reflect changes in costs and projected development policies. These, together
with an annual program of work (action program) would be submitted to the FDRD
and the Bank for approval by September 30 of the preceeding year.  APMEPU and
FACU would prepare quarterly cash flow statements which would be submitted to
FDRD, and would operate on the basis of these statements unless informed
otherwise. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that APMEPU and
FACU would prepare, for prompt submission to the Bank, quarterly and annual
progress reports, including summaries of expenditures and use of funds. On
the basis of the approved annual budgets, the Federal Government would make
budgetary allocations and thereafter would make available to APMEPU and FACU
all necessary funds quarterly and in advance. Both APMEPU and FACU would
operate separate commercial bank accounts. Establishment of these accounts
with sufficient funds for at least three months' operation, N500,000 and
Nl.O million respectively, would be a condition of effectiveness.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.01      The technical assistance supplied through this project would
demonstrably advance the National Food Plan toward its objectives, particu-
larly those of raising the agricultural growth rate to 3.5% per annum and
improving rural incomes. The components of the project jointly provide a
national matrix for agricultural development, built upon the successful
ADPs, linking together the states, ADAs, and ADPs in a unified institutional



- 28 -
framework under FDRD. Support would be channeled to the planning, execution,
and evaluation aspects of the Food Plan. The technical assistance would
help establish an integrated structure through which the state and federal
development expenditures could achieve their maximum impact on the quality
of rural life. The successful implementation of the project, and training
of Nigerian staff, would be a prerequisite for a possible Bank sector loan for
agriculture.
5.02      FACU and the FASUs.  The FASUs would serve the needs of both the
ADPs and the ADAs. The FASUs would:
-  provide agronomic and crop protection advice to the projects;
-  assist in the overall analysis of manpower development and training
needs, and help the states and FGN formulate plans to respond to them;
-  prepare projects with assistance from APMEPU;
-  advise on infrastructural development, particularly of feeder roads;
- monitor the physical and financial aspects of ADPs and ADAs using a
management information system developed by the FACU to facilitate
supervision of such project activities as financial disbursements,
feeder road construction, input distribution, staff development and
training;
-  ensure cost-effective expenditures by reviewing ADA accounts and compar-
ing unit costs and experience with contractors;
-  supply information on fertilizer and seed availability;
-  assist in the training of extension agents;
-  provide feedback, in conjunction with APEEPU, to FDRD and the Bank on the
performance of the ADP projects and the ADA program; and
-  assist in determining needs for agro-industrial processing and storage
facilities, assist in the preparation of the required feasibility studies
and support the entrepreneurs in the realization of the projects,
assist them to identify appropriate financing sources, and provide
technical assistance and special support to individual requesting states.
5.03      APMEPU would meet the evaluation and crop production monitoring
needs of both the ADAs and the ADPs. It would provide:
- standard evaluation survey designs to a greatly expanded number of
projects, for collection of data on areas, yields, wealth inventories,
farming practices, and prices;
- training of evaluation officers in survey implementation;



- 29 -
- data processing and analysis for the surveys, and policy analysis
of the results; and
- summaries of project impact and sectoral progress reports.
5.04      Technical Support to NGB, NACB, LPU and other supporting agricul-
tural institutions would enable them to develop appropriate systems and
provide vital farm services relating to, inter al.La, crop marketing, credit,
fertilizer supply, and livestock, to support and complement the technical
services and implementation advice provided by thie FASUs and APMEPU. For NGB
and NACB in particular, the provision of technical assistance at this time
would greatly assist in the development of plans for the future expansion of
these institutions.
5.05      Although the benefits of a technical assistance project are
nearly impossible to quantify in financial or economic terms, and hence defy
the calculation of an economic rate of return, there are a number of tangible
outcomes which can be assessed as effects of the project. State ADA plans,
the creation of a project accounting system, trained extension agents, eva-
luation officers and survey supervisors, and monitoring and evaluation data
and analysis are among these outcomes.
5.06      In short, the collection, management, dissemination, and feedback
of information and ideas on a large range of topics are the principal direct
objectives of the project. But the value of these activities must be ulti-
mately compared to the progress of the entire Food Plan, the creation and
operation of the ADA program, and the facilitation of the ADPs. It is antici-
pated that in the foreseeable future parts of the ADA program will be upgraded
to ADPs with Bank financial assistance by the addition of the Advanced Service
Package, and other specialized management and technical support to producers
by the States. Technical support for the ADA program in its formative stages
will entail additional benefits by improving the foundations, and lowering the
implementation costs, of the coming ADPs.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED, CONDITIONS, AND CONCLUSION
6.01      During negotiations for the proposed loan, the following issues
were discussed and agreements reached with FGN on:
(a) general guidelines for participation by the states in the ADA
program (para 4.12): formalization of these procedures for ADA
preparation, the eligibility criteria and funding mechanisms would
be conditions for effectiveness (para 2.17); and
(b) procedures for recruitment (para 4.21), procurement (para 4.30),
accounting and auditing (para 4.32), and reporting (para 4.33),
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 30 -
6.02      A further condition of loan effectiveness would be that APMEPU and
FACU bank accounts had been established with sufficient funds for at least
three months' operations (para 4.33).
6.03      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions the project
would be suitable for a loan of US$47 million to the Federal Government of
Nigeria.



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJF'l
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(NAIRA THOUSAND - CURRENT)
1          2           3           4           5        TOTALS        LCCAL      FOrFjIS
APMEPU                       3711.2      3575.4      3219.1      2971.8     3056.6      16534.2       11452.1     5082.1         924042
FACU                         2799.5      1940.8      2808.1      1463.5      1425.4     10437.3        6632.9     3804.4         6917.1
FOUR 'FASU'S                 8352.6      6056.7      6942,4      5888,7      5793.5     33034.0       21480.4    11553,6        21006.6
OTHER TA                      341.3      2031.1      2312.2      1281.2        79:5     604.4A          637,0     5408.4         9833.4
-__________     -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------  --------- -- _ -----------  -,- -
TOTAL                       15204.7     13604.1     15281.8     11605.2     10355.1     66050,9       40202.4    25848.5        46997.3       0
OF WHICH FE                7360.2      6748.6      7220.2      3131.6      1387.9     25848,5



-32-
NIGERIA
ANNEX I
AGRICULITURAL TECHiNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                              Table 2
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MONITORING, EVALUATION AND PLANNING UNIT
Base Costs for Northern Office *
I. Capital Cost!
N'000
Unit                                                                             Total    Foreign Exchange
Itemn                 Cost   Units  PY1    Unit  PY2    Unit  PY3    Unit    PY4    Unit  PY5           Cost     F     g  ECoshnt
Buildings
Computer Center and
Training Center               -   l50.0    -    -150.0                                                           -         -
TOTAL BUILDING COSTS                  150.0                                                               150.0       30       45.0
Vehicles 
Saloon Car delu,e 2/    8.0    4    32.0    4       32.0    -   -         4      32.0    4      32.0   128.0        -        -
Cars                    5.5    4    22.0    4       22.0    -   -         4      22.0    4       22.0    88.0       -        -
Mini Buses             11.0    2    22.0    -    -           -   -        2      22.0    -      -        44.0       -        -
Four wheeldrive        15.0    1    15.0    -    -           -   -        1      15.0    -      -        30.0      -         -
Pick-up                 5.5    2    11.0    -    -           -   -        2      11.0    -      -        22.0       -        -
Sub-total                           102.0    -      54.0    -   -         -     102.0    -       54.0   312.0       75      734.0
Equipment and Furniture
Specialized Equipment                 5.0    -       5.0    -                    -              -        10.0
Typewriters             0.5    3      1.5    2       1.0       -          -      -        -     -         2.5
Safes                   0.2    4      0.8    -    -          -   -        -      -        -     -         0.8                       (
Calculators             0.1   10      1.0    -    _          10  1.0      -      -        _     -         2.0
Furniture                 -    -   409.0    4       20.0    -   -         -      -        -     -       429.0       50
Generator 3/           16.0    1    16.0           -         -   -        -      -        -     -        16.0
Air conditioners 4/    0.8   10       8.0    5       4.0    -   -         -      -        -     -        12.0
Miscellaneous                        10.0    -      10.0    -   5.0       -        5.0    -       5.0    35.0
Sub-total                           451.3    -      40.0    -   6.0       -       5.0            5.0   507.3        27        253.8
TOTAL VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT          553.3           94.0         6.0            107.0           59.0   819.3                  487.8
(Northern Office)
1/  All staff to be provided hired accommodation
2/ Proposed cars allocation: Data processing 2, evaluation 4, administration 1, one 4-wheel drive
3/ Generator 50 KVA for H.Q. extension
4/  Airconditioners for computer center and new offices.
=/ Note: Minicomputer costs appear as line item on Base Cost Summary (Table 7).
March 18, 1981



NIGERIA                                                               ANNEX 1
NIEI                                                                  Table 3
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MONITORING, EVALUATION AND PLANNING UNIT
Base Costs for Northerr, Office
II. Recurrent Costs: Salaries */
WOO00                                                       Foreign Exchange
Unit
Cost    Unit    PYI    Unit    PY2    Unit    PY3    Unit    PY.    Unit    PY5            Tntal         %       Coot
Staff Costs
Administration
Head                                         53.5    1       53.5    1       53.5    1        53.5    -      -        -       -         160.5         90       144.5
Deputy Head                                  17.5    1       12.5    1       12.5    1        12.5    1      12.5     1       12.5       62.5
Administrative Officer                        6.5    1        6.5    1        6.5    1         6.5    1       6.S     1        6.5       32.5
Accountant                                    8.0    1        8.0    1        8.0    1         8.0    1       8.C      1       8.0       40.0
Secretary (typist)                            2.5    1        2.5    1        2.5    1         2.5    1       2.5     1        2.5       12.5
Secretary (confidential)                      4.0    1        4.0    1        4.0    1         4.0    1       4.C     1        4.0       20.0
Sub-total                                                    87.0            87.0            87.0           33.t              33.5     328.0                  144.5
Data Processing
Chief Statistician 4/                        46.5    1       46.5    1       46.5    1       46.5    1        S.'              8.0      155.5                 125.5
Senior Programmer 17                         41.0    2       82.0    2       82.0    2       82.0    1       41.(     1       41.0      328.0                 295.0
Programmers                                   6.5    4       26.0    4       26.0    4       26.0    3       19.5     3       19.5      117.0
Statistician                                  6.0    2       12.0    2       12.0    2       12.0    2       12.(     2       12.0       60.0
Data entry clerks                             2.5   10       20.5   10       20.5   t0        20.5   10      20.'    10       20.5      102.5
Sub-total                                                   187.0           187.0           187.0           101.0            101.0      763.0                 4M5
Evaluation & Training
Chief Evaluation Officer                     46.5    1       46.5    1       46.5    1       46.5    1       46.5     1       46.5      232.5         90      209.3
Senior Evaluation Officer (Survey)           41.0 4/ 3      123.0    3      123.0    3      123.0    3       2t.0     3       24.0      417.0                 332.1
(Analysis)       41.0 4/ 3      123.0    3      123.0    3      123.0    3       24.0     3       24.0     417.0                  332.1
(Training)       41.0    2       82.0    2       82.0    2       82.0    2       82.C     2       82.0      410.0                 369.0
'valuation Officers                           6.0   11       66.0   11       66.0   11       66.0   11       66.0    11       66.0      330.0
Coding Supervisors                            3.5    4       14.0    4       14.0    4        14.0    4      14.0     4       14.0      '0.0
Coders                                      2.5   21       52.5   21       52.5   21       52.5   21       52.5    21       52.5      262.5
Sub-total                                                   507.0           507.0           507.0           309.0            309.0   2,139.0                1,242.5
General Administration
Aircraft Pilot                               46.5    1       46.5    1       46.5    1        46.5            -                -        139.5         90       125.6
Aircraft Co-Pilot                            15.0    1          -     1      15.0    1        15.0    1      20.0      1      20.0       70.0
Accountants                                   7.5    1        7.5    1         7.5    1        7.5    1       7.5      1       7.5       37.5
Account Executives                            5.1    1        5.1    1        5.1    1         5.1    1       5.1      1       5.1       25.5
Account Clerks                                2.5    5       12.5    5       12.5    5        12.5    5      12.5     5       12.5       50.0
Admin. Assistants                             2.5    2        5.0    2        5.0    2         5.0    2       5.0     2        5.0       25.0
Confidential Secretary                        2.5    4       10.0    4        10.0    4       10.0    4      10.0     4       10.0       50.0
Typist                                        2.0    2        4.0    2         4.0    2        4.0    2       4.0      2       4.0       20.0
Machine Operator/telex                        3.0    3        9.0    3        9.0    3         9.0    3       9.0J    3        9.0       45.0
Cleaners/messengers                           1.6    8       12.8    8       12.8    8        12.8    8      12.8     8       12.8       64.0
Gardeners                                     1.6    2        3.2    2         3.2    2        3.2    2       3.2     2        3.2       16.0
Drivers (senior)                              2.0   30       60.0   30       60.0   30        60.0   30      60.0    30       60.0      300.0
Security                                      3.2    1        3.2    1        3.2    1         3.2    1       3.2     1        3.2       16.0
Guards                                        1.6    6        9.6    6        9.6    6         9.6    6       9.b     6        9.6       48.0
Sub-total                                                   188.4           203.4           203.4           161.9            161.9      919.0                 125.6
Total Salaries (APMEPU northern Office)                       JhLA             9 484.4                        605.4            605.4   4,149.0                 1,933.2
1/  One senior programmer for N.Q., and one to handle micro computer operations.
2/ Full time
31/  One training officer for field training
4/ Unit costs change after the third year due to replacement by indigenous staff.
*/  Trainir,  per dims for project evaluation officers appear as a line item in Base Cost Summary (Table 7..



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MONITORING, EVALUATION AND PLANNING UNIT
Base Costs for Northern Office
III. Recurrent Costs: Operating Expenses
N'OOO
Unit                                                                                                        Total       Foreign Exchange
Item                                            Cost      Unit      PYl      Unit       PY2    Unit        PY3      Unit       PY4      Unit      PY5       Costs         %        Cost
Administrative Division
House rental                                  12.0       -       384.0      _        384.0      -       384.0      -        384.0     -        384.0   1,920.0
Auditing                                      -          -         5.0      -          5.0     -          5.0      -          5.0     -          5.0       25.0        -         -
Vehicle Operating                             -          -        41.0      -         63.0     -         63.0      -         63.0     -         63.0      293.0        40        117.2
Aircraft Operating                            -          -       175.0      _        175.0     -        175.0      _        175.0     -        175.0      875.0        25
Travel Expenses I/                                       4         4.8      4          4.8     4          4.8      4          4.8     4          4.8       24.0        -         -
Building Maintenance               (3% of building cost)          24.6      -        46.4      -         46.4      -        46.4      _         46.4      210.2        -         _
Office Supplies                               -          -        10.0      -         10.0     _         10.0      -         10.0     _         10.0       50.0        20         10.0
Sub-total                                     -          -       644.4              688.2               688.2              688.2               688.2   3,397.2                       0    2
Evaluation Section
Office Supplies                                2.0       1         2.0      1         2.0      1          2.0      1         2.0      1          2.0       10.0        20          2.0
House rental (senior)                         12.0       5        60.0      2         24.0     -         -         -        -         -         _          84.0        -         _
"1   "1   (intermediate)                    6.0       5         30.0      -        30.0      -         -         -        -         -         -          60.0        -         -
Travel                                                  13        15.6    13         15.6    13          15.6    13         15.6    13          15.6       78.0        -         _
Sub-total                                     -         -        107.6    -          71.6      -         17.6      -        17.6      -         17.6      232.0        _           2.0
Data Processing
Houserental(senior)     12.0       2         24.0    2          24.0      2         24.0     2         24.0      -         -          96.0        -         -
Office Supplies      )                        2.0       2          4.0    2           4.0      2          4.0     2          4.0      2          4.0       20.0        20         tkQO
Office Supinesmdat)6.0                                  2         12.0    2          12.0      -         -        -         -         -         -24.0                  --
Travel                                         1.2/mile 4          4.8    -           4.8      -          4.8     _          4.8      _          4.8       24.0        -         _
House rental (inter/junior)                    3.0      3          9.0    -           9.0      -         -             -                                   18.0
Sub-total                                     -         -         53.8    -          53.8      -         32.8     _         32.8      _          8.8      182.0        -           4.0
;'"OTAL OPERATING EXpENSES(Northern Office)    -          -        806.2              813.6               738.6              702.6               678.6  3g!39L6                   344.2
Travel  SEO's  survey: 2 months each;  SEOs analysis.l month each;  EO 6-1 month each;                                                                                            > H
Data pr0ce5,ing:CSO I month;& Programmer+3 others 1 month;  Monitoring:6 months
March 19, 1981



-35-                                                                           ANNEX I
NIGERIA                                                                          Table 5
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MONITORING, EVALUATION AND PUJNNING UNIT
Base Costs for Southern Office
IV. Capital and Recurrent
3'000
Unit                                                                                                     Foreign Exchange
Coat    Unit    FYI    Unit    PY7    Unit    PY3    Unit    PY4    Unit    PY5                Total         %       Cost
Capital Costs
Buildings
Office building                                 1       50.0     1       50.0     -       _        -       _      _       _           100.0
Senior Houses                          75                        -       -        -       -        -       -      -       -
Intermediate Houses                    35
Junior Houses                          20                                         -       _        -       -      -       -
Sub-total                                               50.0               -0                                                                     - - -  -  -  -  -  n   30  0.3Q
Vehicles; - Equipment
Cars                                    8.0     3       24.0    -        -        -       -        3       24.0   -       -            48.0
Pickups                                 5.5    2        11.0    -                                  I -  1  11.0   -       -            22.0
Sub-total                                               35.0    -        -        -       -        -      35.0   -        -            70.0        75        52.5
Equipment
Micro Computers                                 2       20.0     -       -        --                               -       -           20.0
Calculators                                     4        0.4     -       -        -       -        -      -       -       -             0.4
Office Equipment                                         5.0    -         5.0     -       5.0      -        5.0   -       5.0          25.0
Generator                                               30.0                                              -                            30.0
Airconditioning                                         12.0     -       -        -       -        -       -      -       -            12.0
Furnishing                                            128. 0     -       20.0     --                                                 148.0
Misdellaneous                                            2.0     -        2.0     _       2.0               2.0           2.0          10.0
Sub-total                                             207.4              27.0             7.0               7.0           7.0        255.4         50       19727
Recurrent Expenses
Salaries
Deputy Head                            12.5     1       12.5     1       12.5     1      12.5      1       12.5   1      12.5          62.5
Accountant                              5.1     1        5.1     1        5.1     1       5.1      1        5.1   1       5.1          25.5
Senior Evaluation Officer              41.0     1       41.0    1       41.0      1     41.0       1      41.0            8.0        172.0                 147.6
Evaluation Officer                      6.5    4        26.0    4        26.0    4      26.0       4      26.0   4       26.0        130.0
Coding Supervisor                       3.5     1        3.5     1        3.5     1       3.5      1        3.5   1       3.5          17.5
"    Clerks                           2.5    6       15.0    6        15.0    6       15.0      6       16.0   6       15.0         75.0
Sub-total                                              103.1            103.1          103.1             103.1           70.1        482.5                 147.6
Operating Costs
House rentals                                             80.0    3        80.0    -        80.0    -        80.0   -       80.0        400.0
Building maintenance                                                       11.0    -        15.0    -        15.0   -       15.0         56.0
Vehicle Operating                         3.0    5        15.0    5        15.0    5        15.0    5        15.0   5        15.0        75.0
Travel Expenses                                           10.0    -        10.0    -        10.0    -        10.0   -        10.0        50.0
Office Supplies                                            5.0    -         5.0     -        5.0     -        5.0   -         5.0        25.0
Miscellaneous                                              2.0    -         2.0     -        2.0    -         2.0   -         2.0        10.0
Sub-total                                             I=S                               127.             12241           127-0      .616-                    50.0
TOTAL BASE COSTS (Southern Office)                       507.5            303               =751            2724 1Z574a    1,l8 35 3j3b.
March 19, 1981



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summary of APMPU Costs
N'000
Item                                     PYl        PY2         PY3        PY4         PY5        Total      Foreign
Northern of fice
Staff costs                           969.4       984.4       984.4     605.4       605.4    4,149.0       1,785.6
Buildinr1g                            150.0          -          -          -           -        150.0         45.0
Vehicles & Equipment                  553.3         94.0        6.0      107.0        59.0      819.3        487.8
Operating Cost                        806.2       813.6       738.6      702.6      678.6    3,739.6         344.2       1
Special Consultant services           150.0       200.0       200.0      100.0      100.0       750.0        675.0
Sub- total                          2,628.9     2,092.0    1,929.0   1,515.0    1,443.0    9,607.9         3,145.6
Southern Office
Staff Costs                          103.1        103.1      103.1      103.1        70.1       482.5       147.6
Buildings                              50.0        50.0         -          -          -         100.0         30.0
Vehiclec  and Equipment              232.4         27.0         7.0      42.0         7.0       325.4        180.2
Operating Costs                       112.0       123.0       127.0      127.0      127.0       616.0         50.0
Subto ta 1497.5                              303.1       237.1     272.1       204.1    1539            407.8
Computer                      85.4        347.0        36.2       -           -         468.6        421.7
Per Diems 1/     123.9       142.2       121.6      104.2       81.1       573.0          -
TOTAL BASE COSTS                   -3,335.7     2,884.3    2,323.9 -,89I.3    r,728.2   12,163.4           4,162.1    |
!-Physical Contingencies                166.8       144.2       116.2      94.6        86.4       608.2        208.1    0
Price Contingencies                  208.7        546.9       779.0     985.9    1,242.0    3,762.6          711.9
TOTAL COST                         3,711.2      3,575.4    3,219.1   2,971.8    3,056.6   16,534.2         5,082.1
rTVSee Annex III, Ti-le 2
January 30, 1981



-37-
NIGERIA
AGICULTUEAL TECBMICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                          ANNE  1I
Table 7
Page 1
Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit dACDa
Base costs for 1981-1985
Foreign
Unit                                                                                                                   Exchange
Cost        Units  PYI         Units  PY2         Units  PY3         Units  PY4         Units  PY5        Total        2   Coat
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings
Office building 1/                   500.0                                               1     500.0                                               500.0
Subtotal                                                                                .5no.                                                5no.0   _10 l2 .n
Vehicles
Saloon                                 g.o        io      80.0                                              7      36.0       1        8.0        144.0
4-wheel drive                          8.0        24     192.0                                              7      56.0                           248.0
Pickup                                 5.5        10      55.0                                              4      22.0                             77.0
Subtotal                                            327.0                                                    134.0                8.0        469.0      75    351.8
Equipment
Typewriters                            0.5        12       6.0                                                                                       6.0
Duplicators                            0.8         4       3.2                                                                                       3.2
Furniture asd air conditioner                            148.0                                                                                    748,0)
Calculators                            0.1        14       1.4                                                                                      1.4
Survey equipment                       4.5         1       4.5                                                                                      4.5
Professional equipment                30.0         1      30.0                                                                                     30.0
Generator                             60.0         1      60.0                                                                                     60.0
Micro-computer                         8.0         2      16.0                                                                                      16.0
Office equipment                                          15.0               25.0                                                                  40.0
Memory typewriter                       5.0        4      20.0                                                                                      20.0
Offset printer & equipment                         1      20.0                                                                                     20.0
Subtotal                                            174.1               25.0                                                                                  108.6
TOTAL CAPITAL. COSTS                                6St.l               25.0             .50.a              1340                 8.0       l R             q hgRl
OF YUICH FORREIN                                  341.3               12,5              150.0             100.5                6.0         610.3
RECURRENT COSTS
Operating Expenses
Office rent                     15/sq.ft          10     150.0              150.0              150.0                                              450.0
House rent                            10.0               150.0              150      '         IS0.0              150.0              150.0        750.0
Building maintenance                                                                                               25.0               25.0         50.0
Vehicle Operating                       3.0       44     132.0       44     132.0       44     132.0       44     132.0      44      132.0        660.0    50
Travel expenses                                           10.0               10.0               10.0               10.0               10.0         50.0    20
Office supplies                                            5.0                5.0                5.0                5.0                5.0          25.0    20
Other operating cost                                      20.0               20.0               20.0               20.0               20.0        100.0    20
Furniture                                                126.5              126.5              126.5                                              379.5    50
Subtotal                                            sQI.              .51R.               5Q3 c4.n                              iLo7 n    2.464.5
Staff Costs
Administration
Program Coordinator                   53.5         1      53.5        1      53.5               53.5                8.9                8.9        178.3            144.5
Deputy Head                           12.5         1      12.5        1      12.5        1      12.5        1      12.5       1       12.5         62.5
Administrative Officer                  6.5        1       6.5        1       6.5        1       6.5        1       6.5       1        6.5          32.5
Secretary (confidential)               4.0         1       4.0        1       4.0        1       4.0        1       4.0       1        4.0         20.0
Secretary (typist)                     2.5         1       2.5        1       2.5        1       2.5        1       2.5        1       2.5         12.5
Subtotal                                             79.0               79.0               79.0               25.5               25.5        305.8            144.5
Finance
Financial Controller                   46.5        1      46.5        1      46.5        1      46.5        1       8.9                8.9         157.3           125.6
Deputy Financial Controller            8.5         1       8.5        1       8.5        1       8.5        1       8.5        1       8.5         42.5
Petty Cash Accounts Official           6.5         1       6.5        1       6.5        1       6.5        1       6.5        1       6.5          32.5
Internal Auditor                       6.5         1       6.5        1       6.5        1       6.5        1       6.5        1       6.5          32.5
Data Entry & Account Clerk              2.5        4      10.0        4      10.0        4      10.0        4      10.0       4       10.0          50.0
Administrative Assistants               2.5        2       5.0        2       5.0        2       5.0        2       5.0        2       5.0          25.0
Confidential Secretary                  2.5        2       5.0        2       5.0        2       5.0        2       5.0        2       5.0          25.0
Typist                                  2.0        2       4.0        2       4.0        2       4.0        2       4.0        2       4.0          20.0
Subtotal                                             92.0               92.0               92.0               54.4               54.4        384.8            125.6
Agro Industrial
Agro-Industrial Coordinator            46.5        1       46.5       1      46.5        1      46.5        1      46.5        1      46.5         232.5            209.3
Financial & Banking Expert            46.5         1      46.5        1      46.5        1      46.5        1       8.5                8.5         156.5           125.6
Deputy Agro-Industrial Coordinator    8.9          1        8.9       1       8.9        1       8.9        1       8.9        1       8.9          44.5
Deputy Financial and Banking Expert   8.9          1        8.9       1       8.9        1       8.9        1       8.9        1       8.9          44.5
Secretary/confidential                  4.0        2       8.0        2       8.0        2       8.0        2       8.0        2       8.0          40.0
Typist                                  2.5        2        5.0       2       5.0        2       5.0        2       5.0        2       5.0          25.0
Subtotal                                            123.8              123.8              123.8               85.8               85.8        543.0            334.9
1/ To he built in Abuja., PY3
(continued)



-38-
ANNEX I
Table 7
(continued)                                                                                                                                          Page 2
Foreign
Unit                                                                                                                           Exchange
Cost         Units  PYl           Units  PY2         Onits  PY3          Units  PY4          Units  PY5          Total        %   Cost
RECURRENT COSTS (continued)
Rural Infrastructure
Rural Infrastructure Coordinator    46.5             1       46.5         1       46.5       1       46.5        1        7.9         1       7.9        155.3             125.6
Deputy RIC                               7.9         1        7.9         1        7.9       1        7.9        1        7.9         1       7.9         39.5
Cartographer                             7.9         1        7.9         1        7.9       1        7.9        1        7.9         1       7.9         39.5
Land Use Planner                         7.9         1        7.9         1        7.9       1        7.9        1        7.9         1       7.9         39.5
Secretary/Confidential                  4            1       4            1        4         1        4          1        4           1       4           20.0
Typists                                  2.5         2        5           2        5         2        5          2        5           2       5           25.0
Subtotal                                               87.1                 87.1               87.1                48.5         .      48.5        318.8             125.6
Agriculture
Sr. Policy & planninR Officer          46.5                 46.5                  46.5              46.5                  7.9                 7.9        155.3             125.6
Agriculture Researcn & Ext. Coord.  46.5             1      46.5                  46.5               46.5                 7.9                 7.9        155.3             125.6
Agriculturalist                          7.9                  7.9                  7.9                7.9                 7.9                 7.9         39.5
Deputy Agricultural Planner              4.9                  7.9                  7.9                7.9                 7.9                 7.9         39.5
Secretary/Confidential                  4            2       8            2        8         2       8           2       8            2      8            40.0
Typist                                   2.5         2        5           2        5         2        8          2        5           2       5           25.0
Subtotal                                              121.8                121.8              121.8                44.6                44.6        454.6             251.2
Training
Sr. Agr. & Mgnt. Training Coord.    46.5             1      46.5          1      46.5        1      46.5         1        7.9                 7.9        155.3             125.6
Deputy Agr. & Mgmt. Training Ceord.  7.9             1        7.9         1        7.9       1        7.9        1        7.9         1       7.9         39.5
Secretary/Confidential                   4           1        4           1        4         1        4          1        4                   4           20,0
Typist                                   2.5         1        2.5         1        2.5       1        2.5        1        2.5                 2.5         12,5
Subtotal                                               60.9                 60.9               60.9                22.3                22.3        227.3             125.6
Management Information
Senior Memt. Info. Officer             46.5          1      46.5          1       L4.5       1      46.5                                                 139.5             125.6
Financial Analyst                       46.5         1      46.5          1       46.5       1      46.5         1                                       139.5             125.6
Economist                                7.5         1        7.5         1        7.5       1        7.5        1        7.5        1        7.5         37.5
Cost Accountants                       19.5          2      39.0          2       39.0       2       39.0        2      39.0         2       39.0        195.0
Clerks                                   2.5         2        5.0         2        5.0       2        5.0        2        5.0        2        5.0         25.0
Subtotal                                              144.5                144.5              144.5                51.5                51.5        536.5             251.2
General Administration
Communications Specialists              41           1       41           1       41         1       41          1        8.9        1        8.9        140.80            110.7
Senior Administration Officer            8.9         1        8.9         1        E.9       1        8.9        1        8.9        1        8.9         44.5
Administrative Officer                   b.3         2       13           2       13         2       13          2       13          2       13           65.0
Administrative Assistant                 4           4       16           4       16         4       16          4       16          4       16           80.0
Machine Operator/Telex                   3.0         2        6           2       6          2        6          2        6          2        6           30.0
Cleaners, Messengers                     1.6         8      12.8          8       12.8       8       12.8        8       12.8        8       12.8         64.0
Gardeners                                1.6         2        3.2                  3.2                3.2                 3.2                 3.2         16.0
Drivers/Senior                           2.0        40       80                   80        30       60         30      60          30      60           340.0
Security                                3.2         1        3.2                   3.2               3.2                 3.2                 3.2          16.0
Guards                                  1.6        10       16                   16                 16                  16                  16            80.0
Subtotal                                              200.1                200.1              180.1               148                 148        1,876.3;            110.7
Total Salaries                                             909.2                909.2              889.2               481.1               481.1      3,669.8           1 ,SQt b
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                                    1.502.7              1,502.7            1,482.7               823.1               325.1      6,134.3           2,149.0
Special Consultants                                        460.0                                                                                                    90   414.0
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                         2,528.3              1,574.2            2,029.2               957.1               831.1      7,919.9           3,173.3
of which foreign                                     1,395.1                 652.3              789.8               215.4               120.9      3,173.3
Physical Contingencies                                     126.4                  78.7             101.5                47.9                41.6        396.0             158.7
Price Contingencies                                        144.8                287.9              677.4               458.5               552.8      2,121.4             472.5
TOTAL COSTS                                              2,799.5              1,940.8            2,808.1             1,463.5             1,425.4    10,437.3            3,804.4
of which foreign                                    1,530.7                 778.0           1,017.5                298.2              179.9       3,804.4
pour memoire: Water Supply
Consultants          66.0  staff yr                     4       264.0      4       624.0       4       264.0                            792.1             712.8
Training Assessment 51.7  staff yr 1         51.7          .2     10.7        .      10.7        .2      11.7       1        51.7        135.5             122.0
Rice Milling Expert 41    staff yr                       1        41.0      1        41.0       1        41.0                            123               110.7
Overseas Training    1.25    month                                84.5              169.0                76.1                            329.6             329.6
Subtotal                                              51.7                400.2              484.7               391.8                51.7      1,380.1          1,275.1
Physical and price contingencies                             5.2                  75.7                                 156.2                27.8        390.8             347.4
Total                                                       56.9                475.9              620.6               548.0                79.5      1,770.9           1,622.5



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Federal Agricultural Support Unit
Summary of Jos FASU Costs -/
(N'O0O)
Foreign
PYI       PY2        PY3        PY4       PY5        Total      Exchange
Salaries FASU                        828.1     828.1      867.7      439.5      439.5      3,402.9   1,464.4
Consultant Services                    6.0       24.0      36.0       36.0       36.0        138.0       96.6
Operating Costs                      218.0      309.5     321.3      321.3      321.3      1,491.4      174.4
Buildings                            200.0        -         -          -          -          200.0       60.0
Vehicles                             150.0        8.0       _        150.0        8.0        316.0      237.0        1
Equipment                            396.5        5.0       -          -          -          401.5      195.8
Total Base Costs                   1,798.6   1,174.6   1,225.0       946.8      804.8      5,949.8
(Of Which Foreign)
Physical Contingencies                89.9       58.7       61.3      47.3       40.2        297.5      111.7
Price Contingencies                  106.2      209.6      378.3     461.6      548.7      1,704.4      360.8
Total Cost                         1,994.7   1,442.9   1,664.6       4        1,393.7      7,951.7   27
1/ Serving Plateau, Niger, Gongola, Benue States and Borno ADA.
r  1H
March 23, 1981



ANNEX 1
Table 8b
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT UNIT - JOS
(FASU)
Summary Base Costs for 1981-1985V
Unit                                                                                            Foreign
Item                 Cost  Units   PY1      Units   PY2    Units   PY3    Units   PY4    Units   PY5    Total    Exchange
CAPITAL COSTS
Office building        200.0   1    200.0                                                                    200.0
Subtotal                        200.0                                                                    200.0   30    60.0
Vehicles
Saloon                   8.0   9     72.0       1      8.0                     9     72.0      1     8.0    160.0
4-Wheel drive            8.0   7     56.0                                      7      56.0                   112.0
Pickup                   5.5   4     22.0                                      4      22.0                    44.0
Subtotal                        150.0              8.0                          150.0            8.0    316.0   75   237.0
Equipment
Typewriters              0.5  12      6.0                                                                      6.0
Duplicators              0.8   2      1.6                                                                      1.6
Furniture/AC                        340.0                                                                    340.0
Calculators              0.1  14      1.4                                                                      1.4
Survey equipment        4.5   1       4.5                                                                      4.5
Professional equip.    10.0   1      10.0                                                                     10.0
Generator               20.0   1     20.0                                                                     20.0
Micro-computer           8.0   1      8.0                                                                      8.0
Office equipment                      5.0              5.0                                                    10.0
Subtotal                        396.5              5.0                                                   401.5   50   195.8
Total Capital                       746.5             13.0                          150.0            8.0    917.5          492.8
RECURRENT COSTS (Table 8c)        1,052.1          1,161.6        1,225.0           796.8          796.8  5,032.3        1,735.4
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 -1,798.6          1,174.6        1,225.0           946.8          804.8  5,949.8        2,233.2
Of whicb foreign                 857.9            516.2          540.5           212.5          106.0  2,233.2
3/23/81



-41-                                                      ANNEX 1
Table 8c
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT UNIT-JOS
(FASU)
Recurrent Base Costs for 1981-1985
N'000
Unit                                                                                                                          Foreign Exchange
Cost         Units  PY1            Unit    PY2         Units   PY3         Units   PY4          Units   PY5         Total         X    Cost
Staff Costa bs Sction
Administration
Head                                   46.5            1    46.5            1      46.5          1      46.5                -                     -         119.5         90   125.6
DY Head                                12.5            1    12.5            1       12.5         1      12.5          1     12.5        1        12.5        62.5
Cost Accountant                        41.0            1    41.0            1      41.0          1      41.0          1     41.0        1        41.0       205.0         90   184.5
Secretary                               4.0            1      4.0           1       4.0          1       4.0         1       4.0        1         4.0        20.0
Typist                                  2.5            1      2.5           1        2.5         1       2.5         1       2.5        1         2.5        12.5
Telex Operator                          2.5            1      2.5           1        2.5         1       2.5         1       2.5        1         2.5        12.5
Gsards                                  1.6            2      3.2           2        3.2         2       3.2         2       3.2        2         3.2        16.0
Messengers                              1.6            2      3.2           2        3.2         2       3.2          2       3.2       2         3.2        16.0
Drivers                                 2.5           18    45.0          18       45.0         18      45.0        18      45.0       18        45.0       225.0
Liaison Officer                         6.5            1      6.5           1        6.5         1       6.5          1      6.5        1         6.5        32.5
Subtotal                                              166.9                  166.9               166.9                120.4               120.4       741.5               310.1
Macager4ent Information
SenioMgmt. Info. Officer               41.0            1    41.0           1       41.0          1      41.0         1       8.9        1         8.9       140.8              110.7
lgmt. Info. Officers                     6.0           4    24.0            4      24.0          4      24.0         4      24.0        4        24.0       120.0
Programmers/Operator                    6.5            1      6.5          1        6.5          1       6.5         1       6.5        1         6.5        32.5
Clerks                                  2.5            2      5.0          2        5.0          2       5.0         2       5.0        2         5.0        25.0
Secretary/Typist                        2.0            1      2.0          1        2.0          1       2.0         1       2.0        1         2.0        10.0
Subtotal                                               78.5                   78.5                78.5                 46.4                46.4       328.3               140.7
Planning
Senior Ag. Planner                     41.0            1    41.0           1       41.0          1      41.0         1       8.9       1          8.9       140.8              110.7
Ag. Planner                             8.0            1      8.0           1        8.0         1       8.0         1       8.0        1         8.0        40.0
Land Use Planner                        9.0            1      9.0           1       9.0          1       9.0         1       9.0        1         9.0        45.0
Ag. Economist                            7.5           2    15.0            2      15.0          2      15.0          2     15.0        1        15.0        75.0
Agriculturist                            7.5           2    15.0            2      15.0   .      2      15.0          2     15.0        2        15.0        75.0
Typist                                  2.0            2      4.0          2        4.0          2       4.0         2       4.0        2         4.0        20.0
Subtotal                                               92.0                   92.0                92.0                 59.9                59.9       395.8               110.7
Agronomy and Research
Senior Agronomist                      41.0            1    41.0           1       41.0          1      41.0         1       8.9        1         8.9       140.8              110.7
Agronomist                               7.9           2    15.8            2       15.8         2      15.8          2     15.8        2        15.8        79.0
Crop Protection Spec.                    7.9           2    15.8            2      15.8          2      15.8         2      15.8        2        15.8        79.0
Other Specialist                        6.5            2    13.0            2       13.0         2      13.0          2     13.0        2        13.0        65.0
Extension Trainer                      41.0            1    41.0            1       41.0         1      41.0          1      8.9        1         8.9       140.8              110.7
Technical Staff                         4.2            5    21.0            5       21.0         5      21.0          5     21.0        5        21.0       105.0
Typists                                 2.0            2      4.0           2        4.0         2       4.0         2       4.0        2         4.0        20.0
Subtotal                                              151.6                  151.6               151.6                 87.4                87.4       629.6               221.4
Rural Infrastructure
Senior Civil Engineer                  46.5            1    46.5           1       46.5          1      46.5         -       -         -          -         139.5         90   125.6
Rural Civil Engineer                   46.5            1    46.5            1       46.5         1      46.5          -      -          -         -         139.5         90   125.6
Engineers                                7.9           2    15.8            2      15.8          2      15.8          2     15.8        2        15.8        79.0
Senior Work Suptd.                      6.0            1      6.0          1         6.0         1       6.0         1       6.0        1         6.0        30.0
Trainer                                 6.0            1      6.0           1        6.0         2      12.0          2     12.0        2        12.0        49.0
Accountant                               4.0           1      4.0           1        4.0         1       4.0          1       4.0       1         4.0        20.0
Draftsman                                4.0           1      4.0           1        4.0         1       4.0          1       4.0       1         4.0        20.0
Secretary                               3.0            2      6.0          2        6.0          2       6.0         2       6.0        2         6.0        30.0
S.htoral                                              134.8                  134.8               140.8                 47.8                47.8        sf6.0              751.2
Agro-Industrial
Sr. Agro-Ind. Engineer                 46.5            1    46.5            1       46.5         1      46.5          -      -          -         -         139.5         90   125.6
Angro-Ind. Engineer                      7.9           1      7.9           2       15.8         2      15.8          3      23.7       3        23.7        86.9
Short-term Experts                     46.5           1/2   23.3          1/2       23.3         1      46.5          -       -         -         -          93.1         90    83.8
Secretary/typist                         4.0           1      4.0           1        4.0         1       4.0          1       4.0       1         4.0        20.0
Driver                                   2.5           2      5.0           3        7.5         3       7.5          3       7.5       3         7.5        35.0
Subtotal                                               86.7                   97.1               120.3                 35.2                35.2        374.5              209.4
Training
Sr. Training & Manpower Dev. Egp.  46.5                1    46.5            1      46.5          1      46.5          1       8.9       1         8.9       157.3              125.6
Management Training Spec.              46.5            1    46.5            1       46.5         1      46.5          1       8.9       1         8.9       157.3               125.6
Technical Staff                          4.2           3    12.6            3       12.6         3      12.6          3      12.6       3        12.6        63.0
Secretary                               4.0            2      8.0           2        8.0         2       8.0          2       8.0       2         8.0        40.0
Typist                                   2             2      4.0           2        4.0         2       4.0          2       4.0       2         4.0        20.0
Subtotal                                              117.6                  117.6               117.6                 42.4                42.4        437.6
Total Salaries                                              828.1                  828.1               867.7                439.5               439.5    3,402.9             1,464.4
Consultant Services                                           6.0                   24.0                36.0                 36.0                36.0       138.0         70    96.6
Operating Costs
House rentals                                               I -1.0         - a9.0                -    195.0          -     195.0        -       195.0       91n.n
Vehicle operating                        3.0          20     60.0          21       63.0        21      63.0         21      63.0      21        63.0       312.0
Travel expenses                                              12.0                   12.0                12.0                 12.0                12.0         60.0
Building maintenance                                          -                     23.5                35.3                 35.3                35.3        129.4
Audit                                                         3.0                    3.0                 3.0                  3.0                 3.0         15.0
Office supplies                                              11.0                   11.0                11.0                 11.0                11.0         55.0
Miscellaneous                                                 i.O                    2.0                  2.0                 2.0                 2.0         10.0
Subtotal                                               R  n                  3nln5               321.3                32.3                32.3    1,491,4                 176.4
Total Recurrent Costs                                     I, M.I1               1.161.6              1.225.0                796.8               796.8    5X032,2             1,735.4
Sarcth 23, 1981



NICERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Federal Agricultural Support Unit
Surmary of Enugu FASU Costs-
*N'000)
Foreign
PYl       PY2        PY3       PY4        PY5        Total     Exchange
Salaries FASU                        921.1     921.1      960.7     457.3      457.3     3,717.5   1,715.9
Consultant Services                    6.0      24.0       24.0      24.0       24.0        102.0       71.4
Operating Costs                      256.0     344.5      356.3     356.3      356.3      1,669.4     197.8
Buildings                            200.0         -        -         -          -          200.0       60.0
Vehicles                             198.0       8.0        -       134.0       72.0        412.0     309.0
Equipment                            420.5       5.0                  -          -          425.5     218.8
Total Base Costs                   2,001.6   1,302.6   1,341.0      971.6      909.6      6,526.4   2,566.5
(Of which foreign
Physical Contingencies              100.1       65.1       67.1      48.6       45.5        326.3     128.3
Price contingencies                 117.9      232.0     413.4      479.0      617.7     1,860.0      412.9
TOTAL COST                        2.219.5   158           21.4   1,499.2 1,S72.8         8,712.7 3b2.07.7
I/  Servig Bendel, Cross River, Rivers, Imo, and Anambra States.
DH:avr
3/23/81
H >
0 F



ANNEX 1
Table 9b
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT UNIT - ENUGU
(FASU)
Summary Base Costs for 1981-1985 j/
Unit                                                                                             Foreicn
Item                    Cost   Units   PY1   Units   PY2   Units   PY3   Units   PY4   Units   PY5            Total       Exchange
CAPITAL COSTS
Building-houses
Office building         200.0    1    200.0                                                                   200.0
Subtotal                           200.0                                                                  200.0    30    60.0
Vehicles
Saloon                    8.0    7       56.0    1      8.0                    7    56.0       1     8.0      128.0
4-wheel drive             8.0   15    120.0                                    7    56.0       8    64.0      240.0
Pickup                     5.5    4      22.0                                   4    22.0                      44.0
Subtotal                           198.0           8.0                          134.0           72.0      412.0    75   309.0
Equipment
Typewriters                0.5   12       6.0                                                                   6.0
Deuplicators               0.8    2       1.6                                                                   1.6
Furniture/AC                            364.0                                                                 364.0
Calculators                0.1   14       1.4                                                                   1.4
Survey equipment           4.5    1       4.5                                                                   4.5
Professionsl equip.       10.0    1      10.0                                                                  10.0
Generator                 20.0    1      20.0                                                                  20.0
Micro-computer             8.0    1       8.0                                                                    8.0
Office equipment                          5.0           5.0                                                    10.0
Subtotal                           420.5           5.0                                                    425.5    50   212.8
Total Capital                           818.5          13.0                         134.0            72.0   1,037.5           581.8
!ECURRE.NTCOSTS (Table 9c)            1,183.1       1,289.6        1,341.0          837.6          837.6   5,388.9          1,985.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS                      2,001.6       1,302.6        1,341.0          971.6          9Q0.6   6,526.4          2,566.5
Ofwh~ichfo'reign                       995.0         604.4          620.3          196.6          150.1
3/23/81



~4-                                                                      _AINEN   1
NIGERIA                                                                     Table 9c
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT UNIT - ENUGU
(rASU)
Base Costs for 1981-1985
2. Recurrent Costs
Salaries
Unit                                                                                                 Foreign Exchange
Staff Costs by Section                    Cost    Unit   PYI       Unit   PY2    Unit   PY3    Unit   PY4    Unit   PY5              Total       2       Cost
Administration
Head                                    46.5       1      46.5      1      46.5    1        46.5   -       -       -       -        119.5      90      125.6
DY Head                                  12.5      1      12.5      1      12.5    1        12.5   1      12.5    1       12.5   .  62.5
Cost Accountant                         41.0      1       41.0      1      41.0    1       41.0   1       41.0    1       41.0      205.0      90      184.5
Secretary                                 4.0     1        4.0      1       4.0    1         4.0   1       4.0    1        4.0       20.0
Typist                                    2.5      1        2.5     1       2.5    1         2.5   1       2.5    1        2.5       12.5
Teles Operator                            2.5      1       2.5      1       2.5    1         2.5   1       2.5    1        2.5       12.5
Guards                                    1.6      2       3.2      2       3.2    2         3.2   2       3.2    2        3.2       16.0
Messengers                                1.6      2        3.2     2       3.2    2         3.2   2       3.2     2       3.2       16.0
Drivers                                   2.5    18       45.0    18       45.0   18        45.0  18      45.0   18       45.0      225.0
Liaison Officer                           6.5     1        6.5      1       6.5    1         6.5   1       6.5    1        6.5       32.5
Subtotal                                               166.9            166.9           166.9          166.9          166.9      741.5               310 .1
M gerpnt l gr1ormation
Seior jl4j6tTn.o. Officer               41.0      1       41.0      1      41.0    1        41.0   1       8.9    1        8.9      140.8              110.7
Mgmt. Info. Officers                      6.0      4       24.0      4     24.0    4        24.0   4       24.0    4      24.0      120.0
Programmers/Operator                      6.5      1       6.5      1       6.5    1         6.5   1       6.5    1        6.5       32.5
Clerks                                    2.5     2        5.0      2       5.0    2         5.0   2       5.0    2        5.0       25.0
Secretary/Typist                          2.0     1        2.0      1       2.0    1         2.0   1       2.0    1        2.0       10.0
Subtotal                                                78.5             78.5            78.5           46.4           46.4       328.3              110.7
Planning
Senior Ag. Planner                      41.0      1       41.0      1      41.0    1        41.0   1       8.9    1        8.9      140.8              110.7
Ag. Planner                               8.0      1        8.0     1       8.0    1         8.0   1       8.0    1        8.0       40.0
Land Use Planner                          9.0      1       9.0      1       9.0    1         9.0   1       9.0    1        9.0       45.0
Ag. Economist                             7.5      2      15.0      2      15.0    2        15.0   2      15.0    2       15.0       75.0
Agriculturist                             7.5      2      15.0      2      15.0    2        15.0   2      15.0    2       15.0       75.0
Typist                                    2.0      2       4.0      2       4.0     2        4.0   2       4.0     2       4.0       20.0
Subtotal                                                92.0             92.0            92.0           59.9            59.9      395.8              110.7
Mrm ym   A Research
Senior Agronomist                       41.0       1      41.0      1      41.0    1        41.0   1       8.9    1        8.9      140.8              110.7
Agronomist                                7.9      2      15.8      2      15.8    2        15.8   2      15.8    2       15.8       79.0
Crop Protection Spec.                     7.9      2      15.8      2      15.8    2        15.8   2      15.8    2       15.8       79.0
Other Specialist                          6.5      2      13.0      2      13.0    2        13.0   2      13.0    2       13.0       65.0
Tree Crop Specialist                     46.5      1      46.5      1      46.5    1        46.5   1        8.9    1       8.9      157.3              125.6
Extension Trainer                       41.0       1      41.0      1      41.0    1        41.0   1       8.9    1        8.9      140.8              110.7
Technical Staff                           4.2      5      21.0      5      21.0    5        21.0   5      21.0    1       21.0      105.0
Typists                                   2.0      2       4.0       2      4.0    2         4.0   2       4.0    2        4.0       20.0
Subtotal                                               198.1            198.1            198.1          96.3            96.3      786.9              347.0
Rural Infrastructure
Senior Civil Engineer                    46.5      1      46.5      1      46.5    1        46.5   -       -       -      -         139.5       90      125.6
Rural Civil Engineer                     46.5      1      46.5      1      46.5    1        46.5   -       -       -      -         139.5       90      125.6
Soil and Water Conservation Expert   46.5          1      46.5      1      46.5    1        46.5   1       8.9    1        8.9      157.3               125.8
Engineers                                 7.9      2      15.8      2      15.8    2        15.8   2      15.8    2       15.8       79.0
Senior Work Suptd.                        6.0      1       6.0      1       6.0    1         6.0   1       6.0    1        6.0       30.0
Trainer                                   6.0      1        6.0     1       6.0    2        12.0   2      12.0    2       12.0       48.0
Accountant                                4.0      1       4.0      1       4.0    1         4.0   1       4.0    1        4.0       20.0
Draftsman                                 4.0     1        4.0      1       4.0    1         4.0   1       4.0    1        4.0       2010
Secretary                                 3.0     2        6.0      2       6.0    2         6.0   2       6.0    2        6.0       30.0
Subtotal                                               181.3            181.3           187.3          156.7            56.7      663.3              376.8
Agro-Industrial
Se. Agro-Ind. Engineer                  46.5       1      46.5      1      46.5    -        46.5   -       -       -       -        139.5               125.6
Agro-Ind. Engineer                        7.9      1       7.9      2      15.8    2        15.8   3      23.7    3       23.7       86.9
Short-term Experts                      46.5    1/2       23.3    1/2    23.3    1          46.5   -       -       -       -         93.1                83.8
Secretary/Typist                          4.0     1        4.0      1       4.0    1         4.0   1       4.0    1        4.0       20.0
Driver                                    2.5     2        5.0      3       7.5    3         7.5   3       7.5    3        7.5       35.0
Subtotal                                                86.7             97.1           120.3           35.2           35.2      374.5                209.4
Training
Senior Training 6 Manpower Dev.
Expert                                 46.5      1       46.5      1      46.5    1       46.5   1        8.9    1       8.9      157.3                125.6
Management hraining Specialist           46.5      1      46.5       1     46.5    1        46.5   1        8.9    1       8.9      157.3                125.6
Technical Staff                           4.2      3      12.6      3      12.6    3        12.6   3      12.6    3       12.6       63.0
Secretary                                 4.0      2       8.0      2       8.0    2         8.0   2       8.0    2        8.0       40.0
Typist                                    2.0      2        4.0     2       4.0    2         4.0   2        4.0    2       4.0       20.0
Subtotal                                               117.6            117.6           117.6           42.4           '42.4      437.6               251.2
Total Salaries                                           921.1            921.1            960.7         457.3           457.3   3,717.5              1,715.9
Consultant Services                                           6,0            24.0             24.0          24.0            24.0      102.0        70       71.4
Operating Costs
House rentals                              -      -      150.5            215.0    -       215.0    _   215.0    _   215.0    1,010.0
MahLicle operating                        3.0    26       78.0    26       78.0   26        78.0  26      78.0   26       76.0      390.0
Travel expenses                                           12.0             12.0            12.0           12.0            12.0       60.0
Building maintenance                                      -                23.5             35.3          35.3            35.3      129.4
Audit                                                      3.0              3.0              3.0           3.0             3.0       15.0
Office supplies                                           11.0             11.0            11.0           11.0           11.0        55.0
Miscellaneous                                              2.0              2.0              2.0           2.0             2.0       10.0
Total Operating Costs                                  956.0            344.5           356.3          356.3          356.3   1,669.4                  197.8
wTotal Recur=2raent Costs                                 i83,_           1,,2,89.6       .341  0          837.6           837.6   5,386.9               1,985.1
JHitchings :PCadario :esf
March 23, 1981



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Federal Agricultural Support Unit
Summary of Kaduna FASU Costs -/
(N 000)
Foreign
PYl       PY2        PY3        PY4       PY5        Total      Exchange
Salaries                             850.0     860.4      889.6      423.8      423.8      3,447.6   1,589.9
Consultant Services                    6.0       24.0      36.0       36.0       36.0        138.0       96.6
Operating Costs                      231.0     322.5      334,3      334.3      334.3     1,556.4       178.9
Buildings                            200.0       -          -          -          -          200.0       60.0
Vehicles                             158.0        8.0       -        158.0        8.0        332.0      249.0
Equipment                            408.5        5.0       -          -          -          413.5      206.8           t
Total Base Costs                   1,853.5   1,219.9   1,259.9       952.1      802.1      6,087.5   21381,2
Physical contingencies                92,7       61.0      63.0       47.6       40.1        304.4      119.1
Price contir.gence9                   AO A     217.5      388,0      466,8c    tC3 A5    1,734.         32) .4
Total Costs                        2,055.6   1,498.4   1,711.8   1,466.5   1,393.6    -8,126.0   2,882.6
1/  Serving Sokoto, Kano, Kaduna, Bauchi States and Borno ADP.
March 23, 1981



-46-                                                   ANNEX 1
Table 1Ob
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT UNIT - KADUNA
(FASU)
Summary Base Costs for 1981-198511
Unit                                                                                              Foreign
Item                     Cost      Units   PY1   Units   PY2   Units   PY3   Units   PY4   Units   PY5   Total             Exchange
CAPITAL COSTS
Building-houses
Office building          200.0       1   200.0                                                                  200.0
Subtotal                             200.0                                                                  200.0    30       60.0
Vehicles
Saloon                     8.0       7    56.0      1      8.0                     7    56.0       1     8.0   128.0
4-wheel drive              8.0      10    80.0                                    10    80.0                    160.0
Pickup                     5.5       4    22.0                                     4    22.0                     44.0
Subtotal                             158.0             8.0                         158.0             8.0   332.0    75       249.0
Equipment
Typewriters                0.5      12      6.0                                                                   6.0
Duplicators                0.8       2      1.6                                                                   1.6
Furniture/AC                             352.0                                                                  352.0
Calculators                0.1      14      1.4                                                                   1.4
Survey equipment           4.5       1     4.5                                                                    4.5
Professional equip.       10.0       1    10.0                                                                   10.0
Generator                 20.0       1    20.0                                                                   20.0
Micro-computer             8.0       1      8.0                                                                   8.0
Office equipment                            5.0            5.0                                                   10.0
Subtotal                             408.5             5.0                                                  413.5    50      206.8
Total Capital                            766.5            13.0                          158.0            8.0   945.5              515.8
RECURRENT COSTS (Table 10c)            1,087.0         1,206.9        1,259.9           794.1          794.1 5,141.6            1,865.4
TOTAL BASE COSTS                       1,853.5         1,219,9        1,259.5           952.1          802.1 6,087.5            2,381.2
Of which foreign                       912.7           559.0          583.3           219.4          106.9 2,381.2
3/23/81



.4,7-                                               ANNEX 1
Table 10C
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECbNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT UIT AT KADINA
(FASU)
Recurrent Base Costs for 1981-1985 -/
WIOOD
Foreign Exchange
Unit      Unit  PY-1   Unit PY-2  Unit PY-3  Unit  PY-4  Unit  PY-5              Total      %       Cost
Cost
Staff Costs by Section
Administration
Head                        46.5       1    46.5    1    46.5   1    46.5             -             -       139.5      90       125.0
DY Head                     12.5       1    12.5    1    12.5   1    12.5   1    12.5    1    12.5           62.5
Cost Accountant             41.0       1    41.0    1    41.0   1    41.0   1    41.0    1    41.0          205.0      90       184.5
Secretary                    4.0       1      4.0    1      4.0   1      4.0   1      4.0    1      4.0      20.0
Typist                       2.5       1      2.5    1      2.5   1      2.5   1      2.5    1      2.5      12.5
Telex Operator               2.5       1      2.5    1      2.5   1      2.5   1      2.5    1      2.5       12.5
Guards                       1.6       1      3.2    2      3.2   2      3.2   2      3.2    2      3.2       16.0
Messengers                   1.6       2      3.2    2      3.2   2      3.2   2      3.2    2      3.2       16.0
Drivers                      2.5      18    45.0   18    45.0  18    45.0  18    45.0   18    45.0          225.0
Liaison Officer              6.5       1      6.5    1      6.5   1      6.5   1      6.5    1      6.5       32.5
Sub-total                                 166.9         166 9        166.9        120.4          120.4     741.5               310.1
Mnagement Information
Senior 15gmt, Into. Officet4l.0        1    41.0    1    41.0   1        8.9   1      8.9    1      8.9     140.8               110.7
Mvmt.Info.Officers          6.0        4    24.0    4    24.0   4       24.0  4    24.0    4    24.0        120.0
Programmers/Operator         6.5       1      6.5    1      6.5   1       6.5  1      6.5    1      6.5       32.5
Clerks                      2.5        2      5.0    2      5.0   2       5.0  2      5.0    2      5.0      25.0
Secretary/Typist             2.0       1      2.0    1      2.0   1       2.0  1      2.0    1      2.0       10.0
Sub-total                                   78.5          78.5          78.5        46.4          46.4      328.3              110.7
Planning
Senior Ag. Planner         41.0        1    41.0    1    41.0   1        41.0  1       8.9   1      8.9     140.8               110.7
Ag. Planner                  8.0       1      8.0    1      8.0   1       8.0  1       8.0   1      8.0      40.0
Land Use Planner             9.0       1      9.0    1      9.0   1       9.0  1       9.0   1      9.0      45.0
Ag. Economist                7.5       2    15.0    2    15.0   2        15.0  2      15.0   2    15.0       75.0
Agriculturist                7.5       2    15.0    2    15.0   2        15.0  2      15.0   2    15.0       75.0
Typist                       2.0       2      4.0    2      4.0   2       4.0  2       4.0   2      4.0      20.0
Sub-total                                   92.0          92.0          92.0         59.0         59.0     395.8               110.7
Agronomy and Research
Senior Agronomist          41.0        1    41.0    1    41.0   1        41.0  1       8.9   1      8.9     140.8               110.7
Agronomist                   7.9       2    15.8    2    15.8   2        15.8  2      15.8   2    15.8       79.0
Crop Protection Spec.        7.9       2    15.8    2    15.8   2        15.8  2      15.8   2    15.8       79.0
Other Specialist             6.5       2    13.0    2    13.0   2        13.0  2      13.0   2    13.0       65.0
Irrigation Agronomist      46.5        1    46.5    1    46.5   1        46.5  1       8.9   1      8.9     157.3               125.6
Livestock Production Sp.  46.5         1    46.5    1    46.5   1        46.5  1       8.9   1      8.9     157.3               125.6
Small Implements Sp.        46.5       1    46.5    1    46.5   1        46.5  1       8.9   1      8.9     157.3               125.6
Extension Trainer           41.0       1    41.0    1    41.0   1        41.0  1       8.9   1      8.9     140.8               110.7
Technical Staff              4.2       5    21.0    5    21.0   5        21.0  5      21.0   5    21.0      105.0
Typists                      2.0       2      4.0    2      4.0   2       4.0  2       4.0   2      4.0      20.0
Sub-total                                  291.1         291.1         291.1        114.:L      114.1   1,101.5                598.2
Rural Infrastructure
Senior Civil Engineer       46.5       1    46.5    1    46.5   1        46.5  -             -              139.5      90       125.6
Rural Civil Engineer        46.5        1    46.5    1    46.5   1       46.5  -             -              139.5      90       125.6
Engineer                     7.9        2    15.8    2    15.8   2       15.8  2      15.8   2    15.8       79.0
Senior Work Sptd.            6.0        1     6.0    1      6.0   1       6.0  1       6.0   1      6.0      30.0
Trainer                      6.0        1     6.0    1      6.0   2      12.0  2      12.0   2    12.0       48.0
Accountant                   4.0        1     4.0    1      4.0   1       4.0  1       4.0   1      4.0       20.0
Draftsman                    4.0       1      4.0    1      4.0   1       4.0  1       4.0   1      4.0       20.0
Secretary                    3.0       2      6.0    2      6.0   2       6.0  2       6.0   2      6.0      30.0
Sub-total                                  134.8         134.8        _140.8         47.8         47.8     506.0               251.2
Agro-Industrial
Sr. Agro-Ind. Engineer    46.5         1    46.5    1    46.5   1        46.5                               139.5      90       125.6
Agro-Ind. Engineer           7.9        1     7.9    2    15.8   2       15.8  3      23.7   3    23.7        86.9
Short-term  Experts         46.5           23.3      23.3   1         46.5                                 93.1     90        83.3
Secretary Typist             4.0       1      4.0    1      4.0   1       4.0  1       4.0   1      4.0       20.0
Driver                       2.5        2     5.0    3      7.5   3       7.5  3       7.5   3      7.5       35.0
Sub-total                                   86.7          97.1         120.3         35.2         35.2     374.5               209.4
Total Salaries                              850.0         860.4         889.6        423.8'       423.8   3,447.6             1.5S9.
Consultant Services                              6.0          24.O          36.0         36.(0        36.0      138.0      70       96.6
Operating Costs
House  rentals               -         -    140.0    5   205.0   -    205.0  -    205.    -   205.0          960.0
Vehicle Operating            3.0       21    63.0   22    66.0  22       66.0  22    66.0   22   66.0        327.0
Travel Expenses                              12.0          12.0          12.0         12.0         12.0       60.0
Building Maintenance                          -            23.5          35.3         35.3         35.3      129.4
Audit                                         3.0           3.0           3.0          3.0          3.0       15.0
Office Supplies                              11.0          11.0          11.0         11.0         11.0       55.0
Miscellaneous                                 2.0           2.0           2.0          2.0          2.0       10.0
Sub-total                                 231.0         322.5          334.3       3346 3       114 s    1,.55A.4              178.9,.
Total Recurrent Costs                        1.087-0       1.206.9       125tz          794.1        794.1    S,14JJ4L           I,RS5.A
March 23, 1981



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Federal Agricultural Support Unit
Summary of Ibadan FASU Costs 1/
Foreign
PYl         PY2          PY3          PY4         PY5          Total        Exchange
Salaries                       874.6        874.6       914.2        448.4        448.4        3,560.2        1,590.3
Consultant Services              6.0         24.0        36.0         36.0         36.0          138.0           96.6
Operating Costs                231.0        322.5       334.3        334.3        334.3          818.7        1,556.4
Buildings                      200.0          -           -            -            -            200.0           60.0
Vehicles                       158.0          8.0          -         134.0          8.0          308.0          231.0
Equipment                      408.5          5.0         -            -            -            413.5          206.8
Total Base Costs             1,878.1      1,234.1     1,283.5        952.7        826.7        6,176.1        2,363.2
Physical Contingencies          93.9         61.7        64.2         47.6         41.3          308.8          118.2
Price Contingencies            110.7        219.8       395.9        467.0        565.3        1,758.8          376.3
TOTAL COST                   2,082.7      1,515.6     1,744.6      1,467.3      1,433.3        8,243.7        2,857.7
1/ Ibadan FASU serving Kwara,Lagos, Oyo, Ogun and Ondo States.
3/23/81



ANNEX 1
Table llB
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT UNIT - IBADAN
(FASU)
Summary Base Costs for 1981-1985
Unit                                                                                            Foreign
Item                   Cost     Units   PY1   Units   PY2   Units   PY3   Units   PY4   Units   PY5    Total    Exchange
CAPITAL COSTS
Building-houses
Office building        200.0       1    200.0                                                                200.0
Subtotal                            200.0                                                                200.0   30      60.0
Vehicles
Saloon                   8.0       7     56,0    1       8.0                    7     56.0    1       8.0   128.0
4-wheel drive            8.0      10     80.0                                   7     56.0                   136.0
Pickup                   5.5       4     22.0                                   4     22.0                    44.0
Subtotal                            158.0            8.0                         134.0            8.0   308.0   75    231.0
EguienS9t
Typewriters              0.5      12      6.0                                                                  6.0
Duplicators              0.8       2      1.6                                                                  1.6
Furniture/AC                            352.0                                                                352.0
Calculators              0.1      14      1.4                                                                  1.4
Survey equipment         4.5       1      4.5                                                                  4.5
Professional equip.    10.0        1     10.0                                                                 10.0
Generator               20.0       1     20.0                                                                 20.0
Micro-computer           8.0       1      8.0                                                                  8.0
Office equipment                          5.0            5.0                                                  10.0
Subtotal                            408.5            5.0                                                 413.5   50    206.8
766.5          13.0                         134.0             8.0   921.5           497.8
RECU NT COSTS (Table lic)           1,111.6        1,221.1       1,284.5           818.7          818.7 5,254.6         1,865.4
TOTAL BASE COSTS                      1,878.1        1,234.1        1,284.5          952.7           826.7 6,176.1        2,363.2
f which fore-ign                      912.7          559.0          583.3          201.4           106.9 2,363.2
3/23/81



-50-                                                          ANNEX 1
Table 11c
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL SUPPOR" UNIT - IBADAN
(FASU)
Recurrent Base Costs for 1981-1985
N'000
Unit                                                                                                     Foreign Exchange
Cost   Unit    PY1        Unit   PY2    Unit   PY3         Unit   PY4    Unit    PY5          Total         X      Cost
Staff Costs by Section
Admlnnstratbon~
Head                                      46.5       1       46.5      1      46.5      1     46.5      -       -        -       -         119.5      90      125.6
DY Head                                   12.5       1       12.5      1      12.5      1     12.5      1       12.5     1       12.5       62.5
Cost Accountant                           41.0       1       41.0      1      41.0     1       41.0     1       41.0     1       41.0    205.0        90      184.5
Secretary                                  4.0       1        4.0      1       4.0     1        4.0     1        4.0     1         4.0      20.0
Typist                                     2.5       1        2.5      1       2.5      1       2.5     1        2.5     1         2:5      12.5
Telex Operator                             2.5       1        2.5      1       2.5      1       2.5     1        2.5     1         2.5      12.5
Guards                                     1.6       2        3.2      2       3.2     2        3.2     2        3.2     2        3.2       16.0
Messengers                                 1.6       2        3.2      2       3.2     2        3.2     2        3.2     2         3.2      16.0
Drivers                                    2.5    18         45.0    18       45.0   18       45.0   18         45.0   18        45.0      225.0
Liaison Officer                            6.5       1        6.5      1       6.5      1       6.5     1        6.5     1         6.5      32.5
Subtotal                                                 166.9             166.9           166.9             120.4            120.4    741.5                310.1
Management Information
Senior  Mgnt.Info.Officer                 41.0       1       41.0      1      41.0      1     41.0      1        8.9     1         8.9     140.8              110.7
Mgmt.Info Officers                          6.0      4       24.0      4      24.0      4      24.0     4       24.0     4        24.0     120.0
Programmers/Operator                       6.5       1        6.5      1       6.5      1       6.5     1        6.5     1         6.5      32.5
Clerks                                     2.5       2        5.0      2       5.0     2       5.0      2        5.0     2         5.0      25.0
Secretary/Typist                           2.0       1        2.0      1       2.0      1       2.0     1        2.0     1         2.0      10.0
Subtotal                                                   78.5             78.5            78.5              46.4             46.4     328.3               110.7
Planning
Senior Ag. Planner                        41.0       1      41.0       1      41.0      1     41.0      1        8.9    1          8.9    140.8                110.7
Ag. Planner                                8.0       1       8.0       1        8.0     1       8.0     1        8.0     1         8.0      40.0
Land Use Planner                           9.0       1       9.0       1        9.0     1       9.0    1         9.0     1         9.0      45.0
Ag. Economist                               7.5      2      15.0       2      15.0      2      15.0   *2        15.0     2        15.0      75.0
Agriculturist                               7.5      2      15.0       2      15.0      2      15.0     2       15.0     2        15.0      75.0
Typist                                      2.0      2       4.0       2       4.0      2       4.0     2        4.0     2         4.0      20.0
Subtotal                                                 92.0               92.0            92.0              59.9             59.9    395.8                110.7
Agronomy and Research
Senior Agronomist                         41.0       1      41.0       1      41.0      1      41.0     1        8.9    1          8.9     140.8               110.7
Agronomist                                  7.9      2      15.8       2      15.8      2      15.8     2       15.8     2        15.8      79.0
Crop Protection Specialist                 7.9       2      15.8       2      15.8      2      15.8     2       15.8     2       15.8       79.0
Other Specialist                           6.5       2      13.0       2      13.0      2      13.0     2       13.0     2       13.0       65.0
Tree Crop Specialist                      46.5       1      46.5       1      46.5      1      46.5     1        8.9     1         8.9     157.3               125.6
Extension Trainer                         41.0       1      41.0       1      41.0      1      41.0     1        8.9     1         8.9     140.8               110.7
Technical Staff                            4.2       5      21.0       5      21.0      5      21.0     5       21.0     5        21.0    105.0
Typists                                     2.0      2       4.0       2        4.0     2       4.0     2        4.0     2         4.0      20.0
Subtotal                                                198.1              198.1           198.1             .96.3             96.3    786.9                 347.0
Rural Infrastructure
Senior Civil Engineer                     46.5       1      46.5       1      46.5      1      46.5     -        -       -        -        139.5       90      125.6
Rural Civil Engineer                      46.5       1     46.5        1      46.5      1      46.5     -        -       -        -        139.5       90      125.6
Engineers                                  7.9       2      15.8       2      15.8      2     15.8      2       15.8     2       15.8       79.0
Senior Work Suptd.                         6.0       1       6.0       1       6.0      1       6.0     1        8.0     1        6.0       30.0
Trainer                                    6.0       1       6.0       1        6.0     2      12.0     2       12.0     2       12.0       48.0
Accountant                                 4.0       1       4.0       1       4.0     1        4.0     1        4.0     1        4.0       20.0
Draftsman                                  4.0       1       4.0       1       4.0      1       4.0     1        4.0     1        4.0       20.0
Secretary                                  3.0       2       6.0       2       6.0     2        6.0     2        6.0     2        6.0       30.0
Subtotal                                                134.8              134.8           140.8              47.8             47.8    506.0                 251.2
Agro-Industrial
Sr. Agro-Ind. Engineer                    46.5       1      46.5       1      46.5      1     46.5      -        -       -        -       139.5        90      125.6
Agro-Ind. Engineer                          7.9      1       7.9       2      15.8      2      15.8     3       23.7     3       23.7       86.9
Short-tern Experts                        46.5      1/2     23.3      1/2     23.3     1      46.5    -          -       -        -         93.1       90        83.8
Secretary/typist                           4.0       1       4.0       1       4.0     1        4.0     1        4.0     1        4.0       20.0
Driver                                      2.5      2       5.0       3        7.5    3        7.5     3        7.5     3         7.5      35.0
Subtotal                                                 86.7               97.1           120.3              35.2             35.2    374.5                 209.4
Trening
Senior Training N Manpower
Dev. Expert                             46.5       1     46.5        1      46.5     1      46.5     1         4.9     1        8.9     157.3        90       125.6
Management Training Specialist             46.5      1      46.5       1      46.5      1      46.5     1        3.9     1        8.9    157.3          90      125.6
Technical staff                             4.2      3      12.6       3      12.6      3      12.6     3       12.6     3       12.6       63.0
Secretary                                   4.0      2       8.0       2       8.0     2        8.0     2        8.0     2        8.0       40.0
Typist                                      2.0      2       4.0       2       4.0      2       4.0     2        4.0     2         4.0      20.0
Subtotal                                                117.6              117.6           117.6              42.4             42.4    437,6                  251.2
Total Salaries                                             874.6             874.6            914.2            448.4            448.4  3,560.2                1,599.9
Consultant Services                                            6.0               24.0            36.0             36.0              36.0     118.0        O7        96.6
Operating Costs
Nouse rentals                                 -      -    14n.0         5    205.0    -    205.0    -          205.0     -       205.0    960.0
Vehicle operating                           3.0    21       63.0      22      66.0   22        66.0   22        66.0   22        66.0    327.0
Travel expenses                                             12.0              12.0            12.0              12.0             12.0       60.0
Building maintenance                                        -                 23.5            35.3              35.3             35.3    129.4
Audit                                                        3.0                3.0             3.0              3.0               3.0      15.0
Office supplies                                             11.0              11.0             11.0             11.0              11.0    Jn.O
Miscellaneous                                                2.0                2.0             2.0              2,0               2.0      10.0
Total Operating Costs                                   231.0              372.5            334.3            334.3            334.3  1,556.4                   174.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                      2LLL_6 1L012                       L7     5            818.7            818.7  5,254.6                0b8
JHitchings:PCadario:esf
March 23, 1981



-51-
ANNEX 1
Table 11
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD
Fiscal Year    Quarter              Amount                Cumulative
1982           First                  -                        -
Second              2.0                       2.0
Third                3.6                      5.6
Fourth               4.3                      9.9
1983           First                3.5                     13.4
Second               3.3                    16.7
Third                3.1                    19.8
Fourth               3.0                    22.8
1984           First                3.3                     26.1
Second              3.3                     29.4
Third                3.2                    32.6
Fourth               3.2                    35.8
1985           First                3.5                     39.3
Second              2.4                     4L.7
Third                2.7                    44.4
Fourth               0.6                    45.0
1986           First                1.1                     46.1
Second              0.5                     46.6
Third                0.2                    46.8
Fourth               0.2                    47.0
PC:avr
March 23, 1981



- 52 -
ANN4EX 2
Page 1
NIGERIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
APNEPU Survey Descriptions, Implementation Record and Proposed Survey Schedule
A.   Survey Descriptions
1.        At present APMEPU conducts six basic surveys:  village listing,
baseline, agronomic, farm management, prices, and ad hoc surveys. Together,
the surveys comprise the main thrust of APMEPU's evaluation and monitoring
efforts. The village listing and baseline surveys primarily establish the
sample frame, and to date have undergone little modification. The agronomic
and farm management surveys, on the other hand, have evolved in both format
and content through several phases. The ad hoc, or special topic surveys,
are usually initiated for specific projects and may or may not be repeated
elsewhere. The attached Tables 1-3 indicate: (1) the surveys which have
been standardized with respect to collection format, programming and analy-
sis, and report format; (2) an approximate timetable for survey training,
data collection, data entry and analysis, write-up; (3) the history and
progress of fielded surveys by project; and (4) a proposed five-year sche-
dule of survey implementation for all the ADPs. An overview of the surveys
is given below. (a) Village Listing is conducted only once at project
inception. The survey takes an average of about eight months to be com-
pleted, that is, from the training stage to write-up. The one-page exercise
is a first step toward defining the sample frame. Each unguwa or ward head
is interviewed concerning the number of households in the village, the
primary and secondary occupations in the village, seasonal water source and
distance, road type and distance, and the presence of farmers organizations.
Since the foregoing information is mainly gathered through interviews with
village head, there is bound to be an element of subjectivity in the
ensuing data. A recent study of APMEPU 1/, for example, indicates that
in cases the village population was overestimated by 50-60%. Even so,
the listing exercise allows a rasonable ranking of village by size, which
is used for a first-stage random selection of villages leading to the
identification of a target population of perhaps 3,000 to 5,000 households.
These households form the Baseline Survey population. It seems unlikely
that the systematic overestimation of village population at the first
stage selection introduces invidious bias in the final sample.
(b) Baseline Survey is essentially an enumeration of households in vil-
lages selected from the listing. It provides a framework for the second
1A   "leport on the Future Xonitoring and Evaluation Efforts for Agricultural
Projects in Nigeria" by J.S. Sarma, Nay 1980, Annex IN, page 1.



- 53 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2
stage of sample identification.  In addition, one household in four (or
one in ten in the southeast of Nigeria) is given a nine-page question-
naire detailing farm size, ownership, household composition, off-farm
activities, cropping pattern, farm inputs, livestock holdings, and
asset ownership. Initial estimates of durable goods owned in a community
allow an exploration of changes in wealth indicators as a project progres-
ses. The questionnaire is administered once to 8C00-1,000 households per
project and requires perhaps seven months from training to final report.
Recently, APMEPU has experimented with a Single Interview Farm Manage-
ment Survey (SIFMS) which runs concurrently with Baseline. Results are
still awaited, but if successful, it could effectively be used to gauge
changes in farm practices which may accrue in the project area. A major
simplification with the SIFMS is that the timing cf farming operations is
not recorded. The SIFMS is a one-page survey covering 300-400 respondents
in a project area. The first test comparison of SIFMS with the regular farm
management survey will be undertaken in the Bida ADP (Loan 1667-UNI).
(c)  Agronomic Surveys are conducted annually on a sample of households
drawn from the Baseline enumeration.  The data collection period is one year
and the survey is directed to measuring crop area, yields and inputs. These
surveys are the main engine of monitoring and evaluation.  One important aim
in fielding the agronomic survey annually is to establish a time series of
yields.  An improvement in the agronomic surveys is that, whereas prior to
1979, all data were transferred to a Composite Agronomic Data Coding Sheet,
which was organized around plots and bundle estimates of yield, the new
format for data collection eliminates this transcription step. The revised
agronomic survey is called Field Record for Agronomic Details, Yields and
Stands (FRADYS). These are organized around farming stages at the plot
level, and rely on triangular cut yield estimates, in addition to retaining
stand counts. Additionally, a closing inventory of asset ownership will
henceforth be taken at the end of the agronomic survey period.
(d) Farm Management Surveys: These are the most comprehensive surveys
undertaken by APMEPU, being based on weekly visits for more than a year to
record data on farm labor and inputs, farm and off-farm income, and expen-
diture, and numerous aspects of farming practices and household economics.
2.        For a detailed historical perspective of these surveys see Project
Working File C2. Briefly, APMEPU has conducted farm management surveys in
five project areas prior to 1980 which were all directed toward generating
the same type of data base relating to different agricultural years. The
surveys were repeated annually in three projects. The subvarieties of the
farm management survey were the: Mainline, Punchline, Deadline and Clear-
line. Whereas the Mainline survey collected data for two samples of 384
households, and 576 households in the Funtua and Gusua ADP, Punchline
covered samples of between 180 and 275 households for the Funtua, Gusua and
Gombe ADP-s. The Deadline survey was restricted to samples of around 150
to 200 households. In all cases wealth inventories were also taken at the
beginning and end of the data collection cycles. A major difference between
the various surveys was related to processing: for example, whereas the



_54 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 3
Mainline data was transcribed for coding, Punchline was self-coding, although
it depended on a key identification card to link records. In the current
Clearline survey, supervisors do all the coding, and each card has a complete
ID. The farm management surveys are the only data source which allow modeling
the incentive structure in a project area. This can be done by representing
constraints in a linear programmming framework, estimating production func-
tions and marginal products, or from estimating firm/household models in which
allocations for consumption and production are combined. This type of analy-
sis requires a broader data base but allows an examination of the origins of
change. The projects' impact can thereby be studied more independently of
other variations in the physical and economic environment. Conversely,
limitations on a projects' impact can be identified, especially through
programming techniques.
3.        However, processing the prodigious amounts of data produced by the
management surveys has been partly responsible for delays and backlogs at
APMEPU and hindered the production of statistics on areas, yields and prices.
Consequently, five of these surveys were sent overseas for processing.
In the future, APMEPU plans to place greater emphasis on shorter, routine
surveys, and fewer farm management type surveys. In fact, a strong consensus
was reached among APMEPU and project management in November, 1979, to run
the farm management surveys only twice in five years, at most, rather than
annually.
(e) Price Surveys. Prices at present are gathered at the retail rather
than the producer level. Although some market size bias may be present,
price collection is important for determining the market effects of a pro-
ject-s output, producer incentives, and real changes in income, expenditure,
and wealth. APMEPU proposes to use its price series data to construct a
reliable cost-of-living index.
(f) Ad Hoc Surveys. Some of special topic surveys, undertaken by APMEPU
are listed in Table 4. These surveys included an investigation of tractor
hire services, grazing animal populations, tree spraying equipment, fire-
wood, and livestock water consumption. The Survey of Agricultural Knowledge
(SOAK) assesses farmer's knowledge and is an important reflection of the
effectiveness of extension services. The SOAK is somewhat arbitrarily
grouped with ad hoc surveys since it is standardized and repeatedly admini-
stered. All ad hoc surveys have been analyzed by hand extraction. In future,
APMEPU's survey design and implementation section would: (1) be responsible
for designing any new ad hoc surveys the projects demand and (2) catalogue
existing surveys for future use. This would obviously avoid duplication of
effort.
B.   Survey Standardization
4.        To date APMEPU's major achievement has been the development and
standardization of surveys. Table I details progress toward standardization
of the routine surveys. It is encouraging to note that all surveys, with



55                        ANNEX2
Page 4
the exception of the farm management (Glearline survey), are finalized with
respect to collection format. Moreover, SPSS programs are completed for
Baseline/SIFMS and Price surveys; and further work is underway to standar-
dize the report format for Baseline, and the analysis and programming for
FRADYS.
5.        Besides standardizing its surveys, APMEPU has prepared a number
of survey implementation manuals. These include:
(a) Village Listing, Baseline, Clearline, and FRADYS enumerator
manuals;
(b) Village Listing and Baseline manuals for hand extraction;
(c) Clearline Senior Enumerator Manual;
(d) Various descriptive notes on data cleaning and processing;
(e) a coding manual for FRADYS.
6.        Table I also contains estimates of the average time required to
train project staff for surveys, to collect data, to enter and process it, and
to produce a report. Table II shows the staging of these steps for various
surveys. 1/ As would be seen, the Clearline survey obviously dominates the
others in terms of time requirements.
Implementation
7.        The history of APMEPU survey implementation, as well as its
proposed five-year survey schedule are given in Table 1. APMEPU proposed
survey schedule has been carefully synchronized with the M/E resource
availability at the project level and also conforms to the evaluation
training program in Annex III. Each entry in Table 1 is a combination of a
project code and a survey staging code. For example, "FU-C" at the top,
left-hand corner signifies that Funtua project had Village Listing data
collected in 1975. Similarly a report written the following year, is shown
as "FtJ-R" under year column 1976.
8.        As stated earlier (para 3), in the past considerable delays have
occurred in processing field surveys, especially in the case of the farm
management and agronomic surveys. Editing and validating the farm manage-
ment survey has proved a laborious task, with the results that reports have
remained incomplete with only weekly summary statisLics being computed.
Nevertheless, these statistics have proved to be of immediate relevance for
evaluation, as they greatly helped in identifying periods of peak labor
demand, fertilizer use, and seasonal price movements, etc.
1/   Baseline and SIFMS must follow the Listing; agronomic and management
surveys have an open-ended write-up period, and cannot be fielded until
the year after Baseline.



- 56 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 5
Future emphasis
9.        Given the enormous resource requirements for the farm management
surveys, it is proposed that these no longer be attempted on an annual basis.
Consequently, the Imo ADP is the only project in the southeast area scheduled
for a farm management survey (1983). Even this reduced workload may prove too
steep, in which case, the number of management surveys should be reduced
further. The agronomic surveys however would be run yearly to establish
trends in yields and areas--this is considered a priority item by almost
all project managers. Similarly, Prices surveys will continue to be con-
ducted regularly since they are less demanding. The format is simple and the
data are collected on a monthly or quarterly basis. The price data can be
collected and interpreted rapidly without sophisticated reports. In fact,
price series are directly available from the computer printouts.
10.       Since APMEPU is clearing its data backlog, it is expected that
evaluation and interpretation would move to the fore. Accordingly, the
future survey proposals in Main Report Section D are geared to more data
interpretation and analysis by APMEPU. The proposed survey scheduled
(Table 3), however, represents one possible scenario of activity and should
not be interpreted as any sacroscant terms of reference since it is pre-
dicated on APMEPU achieving its planned staffing levels and computer
capabilities as well as on assumptions regarding project timetables. The
rationale behind its inclusion is to provide a point of departure for
scaling APMEPU-s resources and training obligations, and to portray the
magnitude of the evaluation challenge given the number of projects coming on
stream.



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ACCELERATED DEVELOPMENT AREA PROGRAM
PROGRESS TOhArFD STANDARDIZING ROUTINE SURVEYS
Survey                      Months V                  Collection Format                         Programming/Analysis                                 Report Format
Village Listing                      8                        Standardized                      Standardized hand extraction                              Standardized
Baseline                            7                Standardized;Minor data                    SPSS programs standardized
additions in future                     Partially hand-extracted                               Standardization
underway
SIFMS 2/                         4                  Under Development                        SPSS tables awaiting trial
To be tested in Bida
Farm Management                     30
- Punchline                                        Replaced by Clearline                      Some program modifications                                Open-ended
necessary for Ayangba and
Lafia.Programs compute weekly
means, SDS, highs & lows, etc.
A wide scope of analysis is
possible.
- Clearline                                      Format approximately final.                           Open-ended                                       Open-ended
Possible changes to increase
compatibility with SPSS.
Agrornmic -- FRADYS  /                   18                      Standardized                         Expansion required.Development
to be completed by end of 1980.
Prices                         14                      Standardized                                 Standardized                                  No report format
Only minor ch4?ges are                                                                            necessary.
anticipated. -
NOTES:  1/  Estimated time requirements for training, data collection, processing, analysis and write-up.  The SIFMS estimate
excludes lapse time spent on Baseline.  FRADYS and Prices surveys collect 12 months of data, and two months were
allowed for report preparation on FRADYS. About 16 months of data are ideally collected for Clearline overlapping
the agricultural season and producing six weeks of discarded training data. Three months were allowed for farm
management reports, but the potential for analysis is broad and open-ended.
2/ The Single Interview Farm Management Survey is an abbreviated, "one-off" survey, which will be compared with the
detailed farm management survey in Bida.  SIFMS can be run concurrently with Baseline.                                                    . 
3/  Field Record for Agricultural Details, Yields, and Stands.                                          
H
4! For example, prices for durable goods might only he collected quarterly rather than mnonthly.



NIGERIA
AGRI.CULTURA T.ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MNOITORINC, EVALUATION AND PLANNING URIC
TYPICAL TIME PATH FOR FIELD SURVEIYS
PeidI_________                                                                            Period 2                                                                      Period 3
SURVEY TYPE    Jan.   Ech.   Mar. April  MaY    Jne   Jaly   Aug.   Spt-  Oct.   No. Dc                         2.rb    Mr            pi    a         ae      InS    Ann.   Sopt.  Oc-t. ~Nov. De.W          Jn,e. Mr                  pIlMp         JC       uy     A
Vill.ge Listi.g            T       TIC    C.       C       C       C/I    P        R l
B ...li-e                                                           TIT-   C       C       C       i       I/P     R
SIFMS                                               T.!~~~~~~~~~~~/Y ~     /C    C        I/P    R
FRADYS/Pri.e 2/            T       C       C       C       C       C       C       C       C       C       C      C       C       I               P       A       A...
Cj.eorl.. 31                T      T       TIC    C,       C       C       C       C       C       C       C      C       C       C       C       C       C       C       E       E       I       E       P       p       p       p       p       P       R 1     N       U. ..
1/TrainIng for Poa...n  an .d SIMUSisctnrtt                                                                                                     Lege-d,
2/Th. peEi-  survy req.ires little  process i.g nod  -tOly,la.  FRAITS  -od the price  --rye  re initiated the year                             T -Tralinig of p-1luti.n offcer, 01 APHEPU aod of  uop-ri-     and e-uert-r  at proJect leve.
after the Vill.gt Lintin,  aod  aeln.C   D.t.1  -11lpti-n
3 D Sta colletion for Cle_rli-  -nat begin ES M-eh or April to rorrenpeed oith the airicolt-rl sao.This                                         E   DSat a-etry and- validatio..
fan  retaget    .eY is 0010 fie1ded 00c  or  .Ice per project in fi-e pear                                                                   P   Procea..ing and initial ana lynin  i0th irandary checks.
8 FM   J.th.Si.l.  .t---Pate Mi.nagm.t SurvY  PRADYS En Ehe Ftild Record                                                             R   Rop.rt  ritleR ritA fival ..naly.Is.
fee Agri.ult.r.l Detaila, Utelde, and Stienda.                                                                                                               ...   hl   f.. h
7/li/RU



-59-
NIGERIA                                        ANNEX 2
Table 3
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
APMEPU Survey History, Workplan and Proposed Schedule
(An Abbreviation Index is Given
Worl
Actual                 Plan 1/ Suggested Survey Starting Date
SURVEY TYPE                1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980 - 1981   1982   1983  1984    1985
Village Listing 2/         FU-C   FU-R                         (FU-c)
GU-C   CU-R                         (GU-C)
GO-C                        (GO-C)
AY-C/R
LA-C/R               (LA-C)
BI-C/R
IL-C/R
IM-C
BA
EK
KD
KN
OY
SA
BO
SE
So
Baseline 2/                       FU-C   FU-R                  (FU-C)
GO-C                        (GO-C)
GU-C   GU-R                 (GU-C)
AY-C/R
LA-C   LA-R
BI-C (BI-R)
IL-C (IL-R)
IM-C
EK
KD
OY
BA
KN
SA
BO
SE
So
Farm Management 3/                FU -C                  FUa_p
FU b_C        FU b_p* c
c             c
FU -C        (FU _P)
DFU  C*(FUC -)
Ga_                    a  *
GU -C                 GU -P
Gb              b Ua  * c
GUc-C         (GU -P)
ob~c    bc  GU,C *(GUD-P)
GO -C     ~GO (-P    -P
bC
AY b-C
LAb-C
d
BI -C
IL
AY
KD
LA
OY
SA
BA
BD
KN
SE(IM)
BI
So
IL
RD



-60-
NIGERIA
ANNEX 2
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                            Table 3
Page 2
APMEPU Survey History, Workplan and Proposed Schedule
(An Abbreviation Index is Given Below)
Work
Actual                  Plan    Suggested Survey Starting Date
SURVEY TYPE                 1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983  1984    1985
AgronomiC 4|                        FU--C                  TU-P
FU-C           FU-P
FU-C   FU-P
FU-C  (FU-P)
FU-C
GU-C                  GU-P
GU-C           GU-P
GU-C   GU-P
GO-C  (GU-P)
CU -C
GO-C                  GO-P
GO-C           GO-P
GO-C  (GO-P)
GO-C
AY-C  (AY-P)
AY-C
LA-C  (LA-P)
LA-C
BI-C
IL-C
AY     AY      AY      AY     AY
BI     BI      BI     BI      BI
EK     EK      EK     EK      EK
IL     IL      IL     IL      IL
KD     KD      KD     KD      KD
LA     LA      LA     LA      LA
OY     OY      OY     OY      OY
BA     BA      BA     BA
BO     BO      BO     BO
KN     KN      KN     KN
SE     SE      SE     SE
SO     so      SO     Fo
SA     SA      SA
Prices 5/                          FU-C                           FU-P
FU-C                   PU-P
F U-C          FU-P
FU-C  (FU-P)
FU-C
GU-C                          CU-P
GU-C                  GO-P
GU-C           GU-P
GU-C  (GU-P)
GU-C
GO-C                  GO-P
GO-C           GO-P
GO-C  (GO-P)
GO-C
AY-C           AY-P
AY-C  (AY-P)
AY-C
LA-C
LA-C  (LA-P)
LA-C
BI-C
IL-C
AY     AY      AY     AY      AY
BA     BA      BA     BA      BA
BI     BI      BI     BI      BI
EK     EK      EK      EK     EK
IL     IL      IL     IL      IL
KD     KD      KD     KD      KD
KN     KN      KN      KN     KN
LA     LA      LA     LA      LA
OY     OY      OY     OY    O0Y
SA     SA      SA      SA     SA
BO     BO      BO     BO
SE     SE      SE     SE
so     so      so     so



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Ad Hoc Evaluation Studies
Funtua                    Gusau                     Gombe
Subject                               1976   1977   1978       1976   1977   1978        1976   1977   1978
Use of Project Roads                          *      *
Use of Project Dams                           *      *                 *       *                 *       *
Demand for Fertilizer                         *
Study of Extension Agents                            *                         *                         *
ON
Farmer Knowledge from Extension                      *                         *                 *       *
Extent of Ox Ploughing
Cotton Marketing
Extension Media
Characteristics of Group Farmers                                        *
Cowpea Palatability
Note: All studies resulted in brief reports prepared by either the project and M/E Unit or APMEPU.
RSlade:avr
7/25/80                                                                                                      m



- 62 -
Annex 2
Attachment 1
NIGERIA
APMEPU Survey History, Workplan and Proposed Schedule
Abbreviation Index
The letter after each project code indicates:
"-C" Data Collected
"-P" Data Processed
"-R" Report Written
For example, agronomic surveys were administered in Funtua in 1976, 1977, and
1978; the data were all processed in 1979, and no reports have been written.
The processing step is not shown for the Village Listing and Baseline, and
reports are not written for the Prices Surveys. The project abbreviations are:
Code                       Project
AY                         Ayangba
BA                         Bauchi
BO                         Borno
BI                         Bida
EK                         Ekiti Akoko
IL                         Ilorin
KD                         Kaduna
KN                         Kano
LA                         Lafia
OY                         Oyo North
SA                         Sarduna
SE                         Southeastern Projects
IM                         Imo
Anambra
Cross Rivers
Bendel
So                         Sokoto
1/ Parenthesis indicates proposed activity for 1980. Activities without
parentheses for 1980 are underway as of June.
2/ It is assumed that if training takes place in the fourth quarter of a
year, data collection will take place in the next year.
3/ After 1980, all farm management surveys will be "clearline" type.
a. Mainline
b. Punchline
c. Deadline
d. Clearline
* Processing includes weekly means, SDs, and other summary
statistics.
4/ Agronomic surveys are conducted yearly, and enclave ADP agronomic surveys
continue until they are expanded to state ADPs.
5/ Future prices surveys can begin in the same year as the village listing.
No report writing is necessary for the prices surveys since computer
printouts, or a small modification thereof, are adequate for interpre-
tation. These surveys are run annually.



- 63 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Proposed Survey Training Schedule and Costs
1.        APMEPU's training functions have been restructured to accommodate
the growing number of ADPs and the ADAs, and to allow for increased specia-
lization in survey training. There are three aspects to this restructuring:
(1) The number of ADPs sending survey implementation trainees
to APMEPU will increase. The state-wide ADPs have a survey staff four
times as large as the enclave ADPs and are counted as four survey units
rather than one. Henceforth, three evaluation officers (except for Ilorin
ADP) per survey unit will be trained at APMEPU to ease the burden of this
large expansion. The legend for Table 1 indicates the number of survey
units in each project. In the past, three evaluation officers and eight
supervisors per survey unit were trained at APMEPU and they, in turn, trained
25 enumerators per unit. APMEPU will therefore be delegating more responsi-
bility for survey training to the projects and will be initiating fewer
training visits to the projects than in the past. However, one of APMEPU's
training officers is assigned full-time to field training to eliminate proce-
dural gaps and ensure quality control and uniformity of implementation. For
comparative purposes, it is essential that all enumerators interpret the
questionnaires and coding instructions in the same way.
(2) Monitoring aspects other than those related to agricultural
output, and most of the agricultural extension, support, and promotional
training will be transferred to the FASUs or the state-wide projects, as
stated in Section E of the Main Report. The only exception is the promotional
training restricted to enclave ADPs which allows four trainees per annum to be
trained at APMEPU. This exception was considered necessary to help protect
against staff attrition, resulting from lack of professional growth oppor-
tunities.
(3) APMEPU will provide training to two evaluation officers per
ADA in the first year, and a tapering level of training in the following
years. This will allow the ADAs to implement the more rapid and basic
evaluation surveys.
Training Program
2.        A proposed quarterly training schedule (for 1981-85) is in Table 1.
The training proposals in Table 1 have been distinguished according to
types of projects starting with ADP survey training. It is expected that
during the five-year period (1981-85) APMEPU would train 763 evaluation
officers and other project staff. The maximum number of trainees during one
quarter is 75.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        APMEPU's training program reflects the following crucial consi-
derations:
(1) It is synchronized with the proposed survey implementa-
tion schedule given in Annex 2, Table 3;
(2) It reflects the timing of project implementation;
(3) It is phased in the order that the surveys are to
be fielded within each project, and it allows time for
the evaluation officers to train the supervisors and
enumerators before returning to APMEPU for their own
instruction on the next survey; and
(4) APMEPU-s training work load has been spread evenly
as far as possible so that demands on facilities and
trainers will not be excessively steep in one quarter,
or too greatly underutilized in another.
4.        Any subsequent modifications to the training schedule should
therefore reflect the above considerations. The most probable alteration
would be diminished training for the Clearline survey if a decision is made
to reduce the number of farm management surveys from the levels proposed in
Annex II.
Costs
5.        APMEPU's budget includes per diem costs for evaluation officers,
FASU staff, and ADP enumerators enrolled in promotional training to attend
courses. This is a necessary inducement for projects to send participants.
Local transportation and part of the per diem costs will however be borne by
the projects. Capital costs for a training centre are not included here since
APMEPU's building plans already reflect training needs. The five-year base
per diem cost for 763 trainees (table II) is N573,000.



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MONITORING, EVALUATION AND PLANNING UNIT
Proposed Evaluation Training Schedule  1/             -
Phased by Quarters
1981                          1982                           1983                           1984                           1985
Quarters           1      2       3      4       1       2      3  _   _               2 _  _                          2
Village Listing
and Prices               EX 3   BA12                   SE15   B018
KD12   1N12                           S018
OY 3   SA 3
Survey Total            18     27                     15      r3
Baseline/SIFMS                            EK 3   BA12                           1BOt
KD12   KN12                           SE15
OY 3   SA 3                           5018
Survey Total                           18      27                             51
Cle$line with                                          -B                                                                I3I 
Participation            IL11*                         AY 3                           BA 3                           BI 3                           IL 3
(D 3                           B03                           SO3                            1(1)3
LA 3                          XN 3'
OY 3                          SE 3
SA 3                             ---
Survey Total            11                            .5A                            12                              6                              6
FRADYS + Area                                     8123                   BA12                          B3  3                           5A12                           $13
51(12 Tot8 El12 2018 ZK1(-                                                                                             2
1112                 KN12                           1(DI2                          1(N12                          1(D12
Promottttonal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S1                                                                                         ILinn  323
IL 3                   SE15                          IL 3                                                            YEl  13
OY 3                   3018                          OY 3                            5018                           OY 
s, 3                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA 3
Survey Total            -      -       -       3                5-                                    67                                                            ,
AIMP Total                    29     27      18     60    30        36      75     51      12      -      36      -        6      -       75     -        6      -       36     -
Pronotitional Training                                                                             3232                                          32
(4 per enciave ADP)                          24            32                                     32
ADA                                  38                             28                     34                             14                              0
GRAND TOTAL                  27      65      42      60    62       64     75       51     46      32      36    -        20      32     75      32       6      -      36      _
==     2=      ==    ==       =       =      ==       ==      ==     ==      ==    =C    =          ==    ==              =                       == == == 
*  Sunervisora for Ilorin are also trained.
1/ Table gives the project abbreviation (see following legend) and
the numbers of trainees in each quarter.  Except for  'lorin, all trainees are
evaluation officers.
iH: avr
7117I/O



ANNEX 3
- 66 -                          Attachment 1
Legend for Table 1
ADP ABBREVIATIONS AND SURVEY UNIT SIZES I1
CODE         PROJECT          STATEWIDE           SIZE
AY           Ayangba                                I
BA           Bauchi                X                4
BO           Borno                 X                6
BI           Bida                                   1
EK           Ekiti-Akoko                            1
IL           Ilorin                                 1
KD           Kaduna                X                4
KN           Kano                  X                4
LA           Lafia                                  I
OY           Oyo North                              1
SA           Sarduna                                1
SE           Southeastern                           8
Projects
IM             Imo                X                (4)
Anambra                            (2)
Cross River                        (1)
Bendel                             (1)
SO             Sokoto              X                6
L/ Each unit represents 25 enumerators, eight supervisors, and three
evaluation officers. The evaluation officers for each unit will
be trained at APMEPU for every survey except  Clearline.   Only
one zone in every state-wide ADP will be chosen for this in-depth
farm management survey. Within the southeastern projects area,
the survey will be conducted in just one zone of Imo State.



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MONITORING, EVALUATION AND PLANNING UNIT
Training (Per Diem) Costs 1/
(N'O0O)
1981            1982            1983            1984             1985           Total
No.  Cost       No.  Cost       No.  Cost       No.  Cost        No.  Cost       No.  Cost
TRAINEES
ADP except Clearline       123   23.0      177   33.1       36    6.8       75   14.0        36    6.8      447   83.8
Clearline Survey            11    4.1       15    5.6       12    4.5        6    2.3         6    2.3       50   18.8
ADP Promotional             24   54.0       32   72.0       32   72.0       32   72.0        32   72.0      152  342.0
ADA                         38              28   31.5       26   29.3       14   15.8        -     -        114  128.4            0
Total                      196  123.9      252  142.2    '114  121.6       127  104.2        74   81.1      763  573.0
I  All costs are local and are calculated from the following base figures.   Contingencies are given in Annex II.
APMEPU's Share of Per Diem        N
Senior Enumerators                15
Evaluation Officers (ADP & ADA) 25
Course Length:                    Days
Village Listing Survey             7
Baseline/SIFMS                     7
Clearline                         15
FRADYS/Price                       7
Promotional (ADP)                 90
ADA Evaluation Officer            45
J4:avr
Ju~ty 16, 1980



- 68 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ADA Evaluation Proposals
Objective
1.        Since the evaluation program would be mainly aimed at assessing the
contribution of ADAs to increased food production and to farm incomes, the
objective is to keep ADA monitoring and evaluation activities as simple as
possible. Prime importance would be placed on monitoring of ADA physical
progress and costs, as important management information and to expand the cost
data base for planning future ADPs. The evaluation emphasis would be an
assessment of project benefits without an attribution of effects to causes--an
exercise some would define more in terms of monitoring than evaluation. Given
the special objectives of the ADA program, existing APMEPU surveys would be
appropriately reduced in scope and number to a level commensurate with the
needs and capabilities of ADAs. The ADAs will be assessed with the aid of
rapid, simple, and tested procedures which help indicate general trends in
food production, prices, and wealth. These trends will, however, be amenable
to statistical quantification.
Surveys
2.        The basic data collected will be cropping patterns, areas, yields,
wealth inventories, and retail market food prices from a proposed sample
of 2,000 households and several markets in each state. A rapid Village
Listing survey followed by a Baseline survey will be conducted once at the
outset of each state-wide ADA program. These are necessary to establish
the survey frame. The Baseline survey also gives the base period cropping
pattern and inventory of owned consumer-durable goods such as watches and
bicycles. Each year the ADAs will run a "FRADYS" type survey (Field Record
for Agronomic Details, Yields and Stands), which will measure plots,
record crop mixtures and assess yields. 1/ Yields will be measured at
harvest probably using the triangular cut method. A wealth inventory
will be taken at the close of each FRADYS survey. On a quarterly or monthly
basis, local market staple food prices will be recorded.
1/   Rather than actually measuring plot areas, the linear transect method
may be used to estimate the percentages of total area under various
crops. This would involve locating one random starting point per 50
km2 and walking one km in a randomly chosen direction from each
initial point. The enumerator records the land use at 20 meter inter-
vals. Comparisons of the transect method with plot measurements in
the Funtua project area indicate that the agreement is close, and that
the transect approach is simpler and less costly with respect to staff,
training, data collection and analysis. Experience gained from tests
presently being designed will guide the decision on using linear
transects for ADAs.



- 69 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 2
Implementation and Analysis
3.        As stated earlier (Annex 2) the survey fEorms and procedures have
been standardized and applied by APMEPU to the ex.isting ADPs. APMEPU will
provide training in survey implementation to ADA evaluation officers. The
data will be collected and validated at the ADA level, but processed, and
analyzed on APMEPU's mini-computer and returned to the states for formal
interpretation. A staff of 24 enumerators, eight supervisors, and two evalua-
tion officers will be required in each ADA (or six enumerators and two super-
visors per zone). The possible use of extension agents for yield cuttings
will depend on the sample design.
4.        Control groups outside the ADA areas are not proposed but depar-
tures from underlying trends in output and prices can be determined. It
should be possible to estimate total food product:Lon in an ADA and relate it
to cultivated area, cropping intensity and pattern, and yields. The escala-
tion of local food prices should be curbed by gains in production. The two
factors provide an important and easily obtained cross-check.



-70 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
APMEPU TERMS OF REFERENCE AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS
A. APMEPU Terms of Reference
1.        Broadly, APMEPU would be required to:
- modify, design, and oversee the implementation of surveys to
assess the progress of the Food Plan, measure project impact,
and to provide the data base for research into farming prac-
tices, incentives, and constraints, and into household econo-
mics. This requires in-depth surveys in ADPs and a comprehen-
sive but more routine series of surveys in both ADAs and ADPs
(Annex 2 and para 4.05);
- train ADP survey supervisors, and ADA teams in survey imple-
mentation at APMEPU, and visit and oversee the training of
enumerators at the ADP projects (Annex 3);
- perform second-round data structuring on ADP surveys (expected
to be entered on microcomputers at the project level);
- document survey procedures, training manuals, and rules for
editing and structuring;
- process all evaluation survey data from the ADAs and ADPs on
the minicomputer in the Data Processing Section, and send
copies of some computer printouts to ADAs and the FASUS for
interpretation;
- perform analysis and interpretation of computer results to
produce timely, periodic progress reports on areas, yields,
prices, cropping patterns, wealth inventories, social and
economic indicators, etc., and convey these reports to FMA,
FACU, FASUs and projects;
- conduct in-depth research on farmers incentives and constraints,
the causality of change, farm/household economics, and trends
in production, income, farm practices, labor utilization, etc.,
in the rural sector;
- write formal reports on these findings;
- contract research teams and consultants to investigate particu-
lar topics with APMEPU data; and



- 71-                               ANNEX 5
Page 2
B. Job Descriptions for APMEPU
2.         Organization charts and a list of specialist staff are presented
at the end of Annex 6. The following are brief job descriptions for key
personnel at APMEPU.
(1)   Head APMEPU
3.         The Head of APMEPU would be required to:
- Report to the Director of Rural Development on all matters related
to Evaluation work conducted by APNEPU on the progress of the entire
Food Plan;
- Direct the Evaluation studies of APMEPU;
- Liaise with FACU, ADPs and ADAs;
- Advise the Director of Rural Development: on the progress of the
National Food Plan and on the evaluatiorL programs;
- Advise the Director of Rural Development: on staff training re-
quirements for professional officers of APMEPU;
- Ensure that all survey results are properly documented and re-
ported, with distribution of results to all interested parties
within Nigeria;
- Supervise the establishment and operation of a data processing
center at APMEPU;
- Ensure that APMEPU is properly administered, has effective
budgeting and expenditure control systems and that correct
reimbursement/payment procedures are instituted for World Bank
loans covering APMEPU operations; and
- coordinate annual/quarterly work plans with the Head, FACU.
(2) Chief Evaluation Officer
4.         The Chief Evaluation Officer's duties would be to:
-    Advise the Head of Unit on all matters relating to crop monitoring
and evaluation policy for Agricultural Development Projects and
Accelerated Development Areas;



- 72 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 3
-  Direct the work of the Evaluation Section;
-  Coordinate and oversee the activities of the Surveys, Training,
and Evaluation/Policy Planning branches of the Section;
-  Facilitate team work between the Evaluation Section and the Data
Processing Section;
-  In consultation with Principal Statistician, Senior Programmers
and Senior Evaluation Officers, design, execute, analyse and
interpret studies which will produce relevant information on the
progress of development and the benefits resulting from project
activities;
-  Identify and provide in-service training for counterpart Nigerian
evaluation officers;
-  Arrange for relevant training for all levels of evaluation staff
engaged in the overall evaluation programs;
-  Preview and contribute to reports summarizing the findings of all
survey work undertaken;
-  Carry out such other evaluation and monitoring work as may be
directed by the Head of Unit; and
-  Ensure a satisfactory rate of progress of data validation and
editing by the Surveys subdivision and of analysis and report
writing by the Evaluation and Analysis subdivision.
(3) Principal Statistician
5.        The Principal Statistician's primary responsibilities would be to:
-  Direct the work of the Data Processing Section of the Unit.
Initially this will involve the establishment of the Section,
and will subsequently include the identification and in-service
training of suitable Nigerian counterpart staff;
-  Advise the Head of Unit and the Chief Evaluation Officer on all
statistical matters related to the work of the Unit;
-  Liaise closely with the Training and Evaluation/Policy Planning
of the Evaluation Section to provide the necessary statistical
support for the design, implementation, analysis, and interpreta-
tion of all rural surveys carried out by the Section;
- Take final responsibility for the methodological synthesis of
data collection, processing, and interpretation on statistical
matters; and



- 73 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 3
- Ensure a timely rate of data entry, and a reasonable turn-around
time for computer runs requested by the Evaluation Section.
6.        The Principal Statistician should be capable of assisting with
specific task programming, and should have suffic:ient exposure to agricul-
tural economic modeling and econometrics to work with Senior Evaluation
Officers on some in-depth research topics such as sectoral analysis, farming
system models, firm/household models, and farmer"s incentive and constraint
structures.
(4) Senior Programmer
7.        A Senior Programmer would be assigned to the Data Processing
Section under the Principal Statistician. He would be systems-oriented,
directing the minicomputer operations, file management and retreival systems,
and component interactions. He would also oversee the movement of computer
jobs through the system, as well as perform task-specific programming on
given surveys in response to the needs of the Evaluation Section. The
programmer would also:
- advise the Head of Unit on all matters related to computer
programs and operations;
- supervise and train Nigerian programmers;
- oversee the maintenance of the electronic data base derived from
all the surveys and the software library 1/; and
- take responsibility for hardware security and treatment.
(5) Senior Evaluation Officers
8.       Eight Senior Evaluation Officers (SEOs) would be assigned to the
Evaluation Section under the Chief Evaluation Officer. Three would be assigned
to the Surveys subdivision of the Section, three to Evaluation and Policy
Analysis, and two to Training. Although there would be some sharing of work
programs within the subdivisions, the principal orientation of the officers
would be:
Surveys
- One SEO would principally be in charge of survey design and modifi-
cation, including the standardized care surveys and special-topic
1/   Files of printouts and hard-copy analysis will be organized and stored
by the Evaluation and Analysis subdivision of the Evaluation, and the
Surveys subdivision will maintain the raw data base.



-74 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 4
surveys, responding to requests from project management. The SEO
would confer with the Chief Statistician on statistical and sampling
issues. He would confer with the training subdivision on issues of
implementation;
The second and third SEOs would be responsible for data coding,
validation and editing from ADAs and ADPs. Most of data from ADPs
should arrive in electronic form and be fairly clean. They would
monitor additional consistency checks made on the minicomputer. The
ADA data would arrive in raw form. The SEOs would document deci-
sions on data structuring such as excluding outlying values, handling
missing data, consistency checks, and sample editing for APMEPU and
the ADPs, and would maintain the hard-copy data base including cards
and original forms.
Evaluation and Policy Analysis
One SEO would be devoted nearly full-time to research topics on
farmers' incentives, the causality of economics change in ADP areas,
and farming systems. A large portion of his time would be spent
writing reports. Together with the Chief Evaluation Officer, he
would commission special studies to universities and other con-
sultants. This individual should have particularly responsible
experience in quantative economic research and advanced training
in econometrics, agricultural economics, a multi-equation modeling
and linear programming;
The second and third SEOs in Evaluation and Policy Analysis would
also have substantial training and experience in quantative agricul-
tural economics. Their major duties would be to gauge the progress
of the Food Plan in terms of areas cultivated, yields, marketed
surplus, altered farming practices, price trends, and economic
impact, and to prepare short summary reports on routine surveys.
They would be especially responsible for analysis of the ADAs and
would compile results from all the projects for national summaries
and projections.
They would assist in setting up SPSS programs for routine processing
of periodic surveys. They would ensure that computer results were
channeled to the proper FASU and project recipients and would share
in the interpretation of ADP results with project monitoring and
evaluation teams.
Training
- Both SEOs assigned to Training would write training manuals for
enumerators and their supervisors. They would receive advice and
assistance from the SEO assigned to survey design. The training



- 75 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 5
SEOs would instruct ADP survey supervisors and ADA evaluation officers
in data collection and survey implementation. Survey SEOs would
instruct ADP supervisors in data validation and cleaning, most of
which should be done at the ADP level. One training SEO would primar-
ily run the training program at APMEPU. The other would serve as a
roving field advisor to survey trsining sessions at the projects to
ensure uniformity of enumerator instruction by supervisors and com-
pliance with procedures established by APMEPU. Details of the train-
ing schedule are contained in Annex 3.



- 76 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 1
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FACU TERMS OF REFERENCE AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS
A. FACU Terms of Reference
1.        The Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) would be an apex
institution linking together the four FASUs and reporting to FDRD. It would
be responsible for summarizing the operational and administrative aspects of
the Food Plan, while APMEPU measures progress toward its broader objectives.
FACU would give overall direction and cohesiveness to the Plan, and serve as
a two-way communication channel between FDRD and the projects through the
FASUs, and between FASUs and national/federal organizations such as the
Ministry of Science and Technology, the Agro-Allied Division of the Federal
Ministry of Industries, National and International Research Institutes,
National Seed Service, National Fertilizer Marketing Company, and the market-
ing boards. FACU would be a reference source of technical advice to the FASUs
on agronomy, planning, management information systems, training, rural roads
and infrastructure including rural water supply, and agro-industries. It
would design an accounting, financial and administrative information system
to be run on microcomputers at the ADPs and by the FASUs for the ADAs and
implement microcomputer programs for this information system to facilitate its
implementation. It would compile the four regional program achievement and
financial summaries of the projects, supplied by the FASUs, into a national
statement of accomplishments, expenditures and disbursements for the Food Plan.
FACU's staff would be initially stationed in Ibadan in rented quarters, and
would ultimately move to the new national capital in Abuja. FACU-s organiza-
tion, vis-a-vis other institutions and a specialist staff list are presented
at the end of this annex.
B. Job Descriptions for FACU
(1) Head, FACU
2.        The Head of the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU),
established under the Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD), would
have ultimate responsibility for the operation of the four FASUs, and for
reporting the progress of the National Food Plan, in both its ADP and ADA
aspects, to FDRD. The Head of FACU would liaise closely with the Head of
APMEPU in formulating and presenting this summary perspective.
3.        Qualifications.  The Head of FACU should possess an advanced degree
in economics or agricultural economics and have substantial professional
experience in project or technical support management and administration,
economic analysis or monitoring and evaluation. Candidates should have a
demonstrated ability to administer a large-scale technical support program
under conditions similar to those in Nigeria, and should be able to forge
working relationships with a number of federal and state government agencies,
research institutions,and project management teams.



- 77 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        Responsibilities.  The Head would ensure its coordinating role
between FMA and the FASUs and thereby supply a major linkage between the
Federal Government and the ADA and ADP projects. Specific responsibilities
would include:
- Providing the pathways through which information on input avail-
ability, technological developments, andl agronomic research
results pass (from National and International Research Institutes,
the National Fertilizer Marketing Company, the National Seed Ser-
vice, etc.) to the FASUs and subsequently to the projects;
- Instituting an appropriate system to report regularly the progress
of both ADP and ADA projects, and to keep standardized accounts
for all projects;
- Coordinating a composite picture of the performance of the food
sector in conjunction with APMEPU, and providing other feedback
to FDRD on the operation of the National Food Plan;
- Administering all financial and personnel matters for FACU;
-  Providing direction and leadership to the overall operation of
FACU and the FASUs; and
-  Facilitating the transfer of knowledge and experience between
the FASUs.
(2) Financial Controller
5.        FACU's Financial Controller, stationed in Ibadan/Abuja, would
supervise the funding status of the FASUs, ADAs, aLnd ADPs, reporting to FMA.
The Financial Controller and the Financial Analyst would provide to ADPs and
ADAs reporting procedures and format, and using thLis information:
- Examine the ADA and ADP yearly budgets, and financing plans, to
ensure their compatibility with appraisal estimates;
- Monitor the flow of state contributions to the projects;
-  Follow-up auditors  reports, findings and recommendations and
ensuring uniform presentation of audit reports;
- Give particular attention to the funding of feeder road
construction; and
-  Accompany supervisions to the ADPs as a representative of FMA.



- 78 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 3
(3) Rural Infrastructure Coordinator
6.        A Rural Infrastructure Coordinator would be engaged by FACU to
coordinate the engineering activities under the ADA program. In particular,
he/she would have overall responsibility for the work of the Infrastructure
Sections in the four Federal Agricultural Support Units (FASUs).
7.        Qualifications.  The Infrastructure Coordinator should be a profes-
sional civil or mechanical engineer with at least 10 years professional
experience, inter alia, in contract administration, procurement management
and manpower training.
8.        Responsibilities.  The Infrastructure Coordinator would be respon-
sible for the overall programming and coordination of engineering activi-
ties. 1/ Specifically, he/she would:
- Ensure that realistic project infrastructural objectives are set
and thereafter translated into coherent and precise action programs;
- Ensure that the needs for guidelines, etc., for the ADAs are
identified, that the guidelines are prepared at the FACU or FASU
level, and thereafter implemented and followed by the users in the
states;
- Ensure that manpower training needs for road maintenance are
identified and appropriate training thereafter carried out at
training centers and on-the-job;
- Consolidate quarterly Progress reports on feeder road construction
from FASUs into Federal Quarterly Progress Reports;
- Coordinate linkages in construction activities between project
areas; and
- Coordinate the verification of feeder road construction, and
compliance with contract specifications.
(4) Team Leader, Agro-Industrial Development Section
9.       The AIDS Team Leader would have proven experience in project manage-
ment, preferably with experience in Nigeria and the Government and World Bank
procedures. He/she would have relevant professional qualifications, preferably
in economics, and have worked at a National level for several years. He/she
would be recruited for five years and attached to FACU. The AIDS Team Leader
1/   This should be read in conjunction with the terms of reference for
the FASU Infrastructure Section.



- 79 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 4
would have the ultimate responsibility for formulating a program to develop
and support agro-related industries in rural areas. He/she would coordinate
the activities in this field with other government and international organiza-
tions concerned with the realization of agro-indusltrial projects, to ensure
optimum results for the National Food Plan. He/she would program and coordi-
nate the activities of the other team members detached to the FASUs. When
needed, he/she would contract the short-term services of specialized experts
to carry out specific feasibility studies or provide specialized assistance in
given cases. The AIDS Team Leader would coordinate the activities of AIDS and
report to the Head of FACU.
(5) Financial and Banking Expert
10.      The Financial and Banking Expert would be recruited for three
years, and attached to FACU. He/she would be responsible for promoting among
financial promoting among financial institutions, commercial and development
banks, the formulation of credit policies which make it easier for smaller
credit worthy industrial borrowers to have access to their resources. He/she
would be responsible, under appropriate circumstances, for assisting in the
establishment of a rediscounting facility in an apex organization to be
selected by the Federal Government. He/she would be available to the other
members of the team for advice on financial aspects of project analysis and
realization.
(6) Communication Specialist
11.    A Communication Specialist, having training in journalism and expo-
sure to agriculture and would be attached to FACU. He/she would:
-  Advise the Head of FACU on all matters relating to effective communi-
cation of information between research institutes, APMEPU, FASUs and
the projects;
-  Assess the communication needs for technical information dissemina-
tion of FASUs and ADPs with particular reference to keeping field
staff fully acquainted with the latest relevant research trials
and the general agricultural situation;
- Liaise closely with the Senior Agronomists in the FASUs on the
selection of topics for dissemination and ensure that all technical
matters to be publicized;
- Prepare and distribute suitable publications, training aids, line
drawings and photographic material to achieve desired casual communi-
cation objectives;
- Establish a communication library and processing facilities for the
collection, preparation and distribution of communication materials;



- 80 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 5
- Systematically conduct photographic missions to record certain
aspects of FASU and ADP activities as well as other relevant events
in agricultural and rural development; and
- Identify and train suitable Nigerian counterpart staff to assist
with the work of communications, and to eventually assume responsi-
bility for the work.
(7) Senior Management Information Coordinator
12.       The senior management information coordinator would head the MIS.
Together with the Financial Analyst and possibly with consultants or one
Programmer borrowed from APMEPU, he/she would design a standardized physical
and financial monitoring system which would be run on a microcomputer. This
would primarily be an accounting system used to cross-check expenditures and
procurements, identify cost over-runs, and unit cost discrepancies. The
system would also tabulate information on input availability, feeder road
construction, and fertilizer uptake. He/she would assist in implementing this
system, a main purpose of which would be to quantify, control and track
performance against program objectives, and to provide as appropriate a basis
for modification of initial plans. He/she would have major liaison responsi-
bilities with the FASU MIS offices.
(8) Financial Analyst
13.       The Financial Analyst, assigned to the MIS, would:
- Supervise FACU's accounting and oversee financial bookkeeping
for the Unit;
- Assist the accountant in the Administration Section;
- Design the financial monitoring accounting system to be used
by the FASUs and ADPs, in conjunction with the MIS coordinator;
- Assist with the implementation of the system;
-  Standardize and check financial report formats;
- Liaise with the FACU Financial Controller to ensure the adequacy
of these procedures for supplying financial, disbursement, procure-
ment, and accounting information to the Bank, FACU, and the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture.
(9)  Senior Agriculture Planning Coordinator
14.       The FACU Senior Agriculture Planning Coordinator would coordinate the
agricultural planning activities under the ADA and ADP program. In particular



- 81 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 6
he/she would have overall responsibility for the work of the Planning Sections
in the four FASUs. The Agriculture Planner would ensure a coordinated role
between FMA and the FASUs in planning ADA and ADP projects. The Agriculture
Planner would foster working relationships with other Federal and State
Government planning agencies.
(10) Senior Extension Coordinator
15.       The FACU Senior Extension Coordinator would coordinate the ex-
tension activities under the ADA and ADP program. In particular, he/she
would have overall responsibility for the work of the Agronomy and Research
Section in the four Federal Agricultural Support Units (FASUs). The Senior
Extension Coordinator would ensure coordinating role between FMA and other
Federal and State Government Agricultural Research Agencies and Institu-
tions.
(11) Senior Manpower Development and Training Coordinator
16.       The FACU Senior Manpower Development and Training Coordinator
would coordinate all manpower needs analysis and training activities under the
ADA and ADP program. In particular, he/she would have overall responsibility
for the work of the Training Section the four FASUs. He/she would work
closely with ARMTI and other Federal and State traLining institutions to ensure
linkage with new and existing programs.
C. Terms of Reference for FASUs
17.       Four FASUs would be established at Kaduna, Jos, Ibadan, and Enugu.
Each FASU would have five sections:
- Rural Infrastructure Section (RIS);
- Project Planning Section (PPS):
- Management Information Section (MIS);
- Agronomy and Extension Training Section (AETS); and
- Agro-Industrial Development Section (AIDS).
Taken together, these sections would channel techrical support, advice,
feedback to the states in the FASU region on the critical development
components of the Food Plan, and monitor, control and release federal
funds to the participating states against agreed plans and performance
records.



- 82 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 7
(1) Rural Infrastructure Section
18.       The RIS would guide and advise the states and LGCs in preparing
and implementing the engineering parts of the overall project. In addition,
RIS would, in collaboration with the FASU MIS monitor the engineering aspects
of the project.
19.       The RIS would provide the states and (where appropriate) the LGCs
with:
- standard bidding documents for (i) execution of civil works by
contractors; and (ii) purchase of equipment from suppliers;
- geometric feeder roads standards including typical road cross
sections, and standard drawings for: (i) road drainage structures;
and (ii) workshops with standardized equipment and tools; and
- terms of reference for consultants to prepare and design bidding
documents for feeder roads to be constructed by contractors.
The RIS would be led by a Senior Civil Engineer, supported by a Rural Civil
Engineer. In Kaduna, a Small Implements Engineer would be attached to this
section, and in Enugu, a Soil and Water Conservation specialist.
20.       The work of state-employed consultants carrying out the inventory
and design of roads, and the survey work of APMEPU, would allow RIS to
evaluate the impact of the proposed feeder road improvement/construction on
the state road network and its development, and thereafter,with the states,
review the need for upgrading some LGC roads to state roads.
21.       A team of water supply consultants would be obtained from a spe-
cialized firm, attached to the FACU, and stationed in Kaduna. The team, whose
terms of reference are given in Annex 7, would assist the FASUs' RIS and the
states in formulating and considering rural water supply proposals.
(2) Project Planning Section
22.       The PPS would be responsible for monitoring state efforts to plan
ADAs and for assisting states with the identification and preparation of
ADPs. The PPS would closely liaise with MIS and APMEPU to draw on evaluation
and other available data. Since FASU-s planning functions would be spread
unevenly, PPS would supplement its staff with outside consultants. The
section would be led by a Senior Agricultural Planner.



- 83 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 8
(3) Management Information Section
23.       Each FASU's Management Information Section (MIS) would monitor
the ADPs and ADA projects in its zone. The administrative monitoring of such
project activities as financial disbursements, feeder road construction, and
input distribution will be run on a microcomputer. The system and software
will be supplied by FACU. The MIS would be led by a Senior Management Infor-
mation Officer and have substantial input from the cost accountant.
(4) Agronomy and Extension Training Section
24.       Each FASU would have an Agronomy and Extension Training Section
(AETS). This section would provide the main support to the ADA and ADP
agricultural program. As the name denotes, AETS would also be responsible
for assisting and coordinating the extension training activities for all
states under its aegis.   The AETS would serve as a conduit for the dissem-
ination of regional agricultural advice and recommendations of research
institutions to farmers.
25.       The section would be staffed by a Senior Agronomist and an Extension
Trainer, plus Livestock and Irrigation specialists in Kaduna and tree crop
specialists in Enugu and Ibadan.
(5) Agro-Industrial Development Section
26.       The Agro-Industrial Development Section would help establish
low cost, uncomplicated crop processing and machinery manufacturing units
in the private sector. These units, generally labor-intensive, would be
located on the existing ADPs. By absorbing seasonal surpluses they would
contribute to improved market and price stability. Expansion would occur from
the projects as techniques and markets were proven. The aim of AIDS would
be to promote the establishment of a large number of small-size units in the
hands of private entrepreneurs and to offer them access to managerial assist-
ance and training.
27.       Since local processing would be concentrated on a relatively
limited number of crops--rice, cassava, yams and perishables (poultry, meat,
fish, vegetables and fruits)--efforts would be made to develop standard
processes and equipment suitable for assembly and, eventually, manufacture
in Nigeria. This would ensure easier maintenance and an assured supply of
spare parts in Nigeria. Processing of more specialized crops--cacao,
vegetable seeds and palm oil, timber, etc.--or the manufacture of inputs for
agriculture and fishing, would also be developed.
28.       As agro-industries form part of the continuum of production from
agriculture, and not a separate engineering activity, AIDS would be attached
to FACU, with field work based on FASUs. The functions of AIDS would be to:



- 84 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 9
- expand on studies recently carried out to determine needs in space
and time, and develop a program which could be phased in to meet
the needs;
- promote the concept of standardized processing units whenever possible;
- promote the idea of introducing new processing and storage facilities
in the ADP areas, and identify entrepreneurs capable of carrying out
individual projects;
- assist in the realization of feasibility studies in the locations
selected with emphasis on: existing facilities and their suitability,
availability of supplies of raw materials (including seasonality and
availability for processing), infrastructure, markets, manage-
ment and manpower availability;
- assist in the supervision of construction of the plants;
- assist in the training of both management and manpower;
- provide management advice in operations and maintenance, either as a
free service or for a fee;
- keep the managers informed of evolutions in technology and market; and
- maintain contacts with other ministries, both federal and state, to
reduce the possibility of duplication in processing facilities and in
supplies of imported finished products.
AIDS would initially consist of a team of six expatriates recruited from a
consulting firm. This team would be supplemented with Nigerian experts
recruited locally, until, at full complement, it would include 13 experts.
29.       The Nigerian experts would be attached to the FASUs so that, by
PY4 each FASU would have an AIDS team of three staff members. The expatriate
experts would include a Team Leader, a specialist in finance and banking
and four agro-industrial experts representing, between them, experience in
the more important crop processes, machinery manufacturing and marketing
of food products.
30.       The AIDS team leader and the financial and banking expert would
be attached to FACU. The agro-industrial experts would be assigned to the
FASUs.
D. Job Descriptions for FASU
(1) Head FASU
31.      The FASU Heads should have experience and abilities similar to
those of a Project Manager from a multi-component agricultural project. A
high degree of administrative and financial responsibility is required, and



- 85 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 10
a capacity to constructively interact with a number of state governments
and agencies. In-depth experience with project implementation is an impor-
tant qualification since the FASU Heads must assess the progress of ADA
programs in four states.
32.      Specifically, they would take prime responsibility for:
- personnel management and staff relations;
- coordination of the five FASU sections (RIS, PPS, MES, AIDS
and AATS) and FASU relations with the ADP and ADA state projects
in its zone;
- controlling the budget and financial affairs of the FASU;
certifying the adequacy of ADA and ADP project design;
- making quarterly reports to FACU and the Bank on ADA and ADP
implementation progress and expenditures, including recommenta-
tions on federal disbursements to the states and required program
modifications;
- ensuring the transfer of agricultural research, extension advice,
information on input availabilities, and monitoring and evaluation
results, (including prices) to the ADA and ADP projects;
- guaranteeing the responsiveness of the FASU to project management
needs for consultation, information, and technical backup; and
- supporting the working relationship between APMEPU and the FASUs.
(2) Cost Accountant
33.       The Cost Accountant in each FASU would maintain accounts, financial
bookkeeping, and payrolls for the FASU. He/she would work with MIS in running
the financial and management information system for the ADAs. He/she would
record and check federal and state disbursements to the projects, and ensure
uniform and accurate accounting procedures in the AJDPs and ADAs by liaising
with the cost accountants in the states.
(3) Senior Management Information Officer
34.       The Senior MIS Officer would lead MIS in the FASU, and would have
two major responsibilities:



- 86-                                 ANNEX 6
Page 11
-  Together with the Cost Accountant at the FASU, he/she would run
the physical financial and administrative management information
system for the ADAs on the FASU's microcomputer. In doing so,
he/she would use the system supplied by the FACU-s MIS, the programs
distributed by APMEPU's programmers and the information supplied by
the Program Coordinator and the Cost Accountant in each state.
With FASU's Cost Accountant, he/she would identify bottlenecks, cost
discrepancies and over-runs, check outlays for procurement and
monitor road construction activities. The results of running this
information system would be passed back to the ADAs.
- The Senior MIS Officer would maintain close links with APMEPU,
and would be familiar with techniques and procedures of surveys,
monitoring and evaluation. He/she must be capable of running the
microcomputer, doing some microcomputer programming, and inter-
preting printouts from APMEPU's computer.
(4) Senior Agricultural Planner
35.    The Senior Agricultural Planner would head the Project Planning Section
of the FASU. He/she would be a graduate in agricultural economics, and
extensive project panning experience would be desirable. He/she should have
the capability to manage a planning team comprising different disciplines.
He/she would be technically responsible to the Head of FASU. Using data from
APMEPU, FACU materials, and the ADA planning manual as a guide, he/she would:
- oversee the preparation of similar programs for the states under its
purview;
- in conjuction with the relevant state and federal authorities,
would identify and plan new agricultural rural development projects
(other than tree crop projects); and
- assist the states to prepare detailed feasibility studies for
review and approval by state and federal authorities.
(5) Senior Agronomist
36.     The Agronomy and Extension Training Section (AETS) would be led by a
Senior Agronomist with experience in broad based agricultural development.
He/she would have a post graduate degree in tropical agriculture and extensive
experience in the field of agricultural extension including training.
Experience in agronomic research and seed multiplication and certification
schemes would be a valuable attribute. He/she would be directly responsible
to the Head of FASU, and would oversee:



- 87 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 12
- provision of technical advice related to area specific crops,
including a communication to ADAs/ADPs of latest applicable
technical advances, and interpretation of these results for use at
the project and farm levels;
- preparation, at the request of ADAs/ADPs, of formal annual crop
recommendations;
- design and layout of research and field trails within project
areas;
- communication of new techniques; in this respect liaising with
research institutions like International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture and IAR at Samaru to ensure that research programs
can be designed to fit project needs;
- liaison with commercial organizations in regard to research and
technical innovations applicable to the ADPs/ADAs; and
- transfer of information and recommendations on cropping patterns
and farming practices to FASU's Extension Trainer and the Agrono-
mists in the state technical assistance teams under the FASU.
37.     The Senior Agronomist would be or become an expert on farming systems
in a four-state region of Nigeria. The Senior Agronomist would liaise with
APMEPU and be well informed on APMEPU's survey results on adoption, fertilizer
uses, cropping patterns, areas, and yields, and help channel important find-
ings to both ADAs and ADPs.
(6) Extension Trainer
38.     The Extension Trainer would work with FASU's agronomist and the
State agronomists to reorganize/establish the extension system to ensure
regular flow of technology to the farmers. He would arrange to train
extension agents from ADAs and ADPs in the Training and Visit System of
extension. He would be required:
- to oversee the achievement of production objectives;
-  to ensure the flow of information between research workers and
farmers;
- to assess extension manpower needs and ensure adequate training of
extension staff;
-  to establish priorities for field activities;
- to liaise with state Ministries, local government authorities,
Cooperatives, and Farm Service Centers;



- 88 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 13
- to identify staff training priorities and coordinate staff training;
- to establish monitoring and reporting systems for extension staff;and
- undertake training and development of own staff.
39.     The Extension Trainer would have an internationally recognized quali-
fication in agriculture or agricultural extension, preferably with a diploma
in tropical agriculture, knowledge of modern extension techniques and crops
common to the area, and preferably have experience of Nigerian conditions.
He/she would possess proven managerial skills pertaining to the post.
(7) Agro-Industrial Experts
40.      Agro-Industrial Experts, recruited for three years, would be attached
to each of the four FASUs. They would report to and take direction from the
AIDS Team Leader in the FACU. They would be responsible for the identifica-
tion of needs for agro-related industries in the areas affected by ADPs and
for the promotion of processes to answer these needs. This would imply the
identification of entrepreneurs capable of carrying out individual projects.
They would assist in the preparation of feasibility studies and provide
support to the enterprises to bring them to a level of efficiency where they
would become suitable credit risks for financial institutions.
(8) Senior Civil Engineer
41.      A Senior Civil Engineer would lead the Rural Infrastructure Section
(RIS). He/she would be a qualified civil engineer with at least 10 years profes-
sional experience mainly within management and planning contract administra-
tion, design/construction/maintenance of low cost roads, and manpower training.
As RIS leader, he/she would be responsible for:
-  reviewing feeder roads selected by the states to be improved or
constructed, after inventories of existing feeder roads;
-  assisting the ADPs and Roads Engineers in the states in engaging
consulting firms to prepare inventory, design, and bidding documents
for feeder roads and carry out contract administration for the
construction of the roads by contractors;
-  ensuring quality control;
-  supplying information on the progress of construction and improve-
ment to the MIS and FMA; and
- helping evaluate the impact of the roads.



- 89 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 14
(9) Management Trainer
42.       The Management Trainer in the Jos, Ibadan and Enugu FASUs would
work with the FASU's Senior Manpower Development and Training Officer and
the States to advise on the reorganization and establishment of management
systems to ensure the efficient flow of technology to the farmer. He/she
would advise on and/or arrange training programs for all levels of State
Agriculture Staff from ADAs to ADPs. He/she would be required to:
-  assess management training needs and in response identify,plan and
offer in-service courses for a wide variety of State ADA and ADP
personnel;
- devise a system for keeping detailed staff training records;
- advise state officials and project manaLgement on staff develop-
ment matters;
- collect resource materials for training and staff development;
- write an annual report on Regional Activity in management
training and staff development activities;
- assess training needs on a continuing basis through close
cooperation with state management, units, division heads
and LGA representatives;
- participate in statewide training and staff development acti-
vities;
- advise ADA and ADP personnel on available programs in manage-
ment, both local and international;
- design a work experience and in-service instruction program
for assistant training staff;
- research and draw up a list of manageme-nt skill needs by each
category and level of agricultural development staff;
- design suitable instructional programs to meet these needs;
- prepare case studies based on local si,tuations for use in the
teaching process;
- prepare packages of teaching materials;
-  design a continuing series of basic managerial skills courses
for LGA personnel; and
- liaise with the Agricultural and Rural Management Training
Institute (ARMTI) Ilorin.



- 90 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 15
(10) Senior Manpower Development and Training Specialist
43.       The Manpower Development and Training Section in the Jos, Ibadan
and Enugu FASUs would be headed by a Senior Training and Manpower Develop-
ment Specialist. With experience in broad-based agriculture, management
and training, he/she would have a degree in non-formal education, preferably
at the graduate level, and extension experience in the fields of manpower
planning and training. Experience in Agriculture Extension Training Systems
would be valuable attribute. He/she would be directly responsible to the head
of the FASU and have the following responsibilities:
- Advise in the design and planning on ongoing state-wide staff
development program to meet all project needs for upper, middle
and supervisory levels of personnel;
- Advise in planning and coordinating all functions, courses and
seminars associated with the staff development function;
- Advise when needed in the supervision of the Staff Development
and Media Center which would serve as the location for most of
the staff development instruction;
- Collecting and maintaining detailed records on each FASU staff-
members' academic and work achievements;
- Advise in establishing a representative advisory committee to
deal with staff development needs and to monitor progress.
Membership would include senior ministry personnel and zonal
managers;
- Presentation of an annual FASU training and staff development
budget;
- Creation and maintenance of a training and staff development
resource center which would have information and materials
relevant to the state ADA and ADP programs;
- Editing and distributing a training and staff development
newsletter;
- Writing an annual report on the activities of the program;
- Initiating relevant research collaboration with interested
institutions; and
-  Providing technical direction and planning in-service train-
ing for the state Training Officers.



-91-                                  ANNEX 6
Page 16
(11) Rural Civil Engineer
44.       The Rural Civil Engineer would be a qualified civil engineer with
a minimum of five years experience in the design,, construction and mainte-
nance of rural roads in developing tropical countries. He/she would be
responsible to the Senior Civil Engineer and his duties would include:
- advising ADAs and ADPs on the design and layout of rural/feeder
roads including simple river crossings and drainage facilities;
- supplying monitoring information on the progress of feeder roads
component of the ADA program;
- advising on the preparation of annual road construction programs;
- advising states on the utilization of all heavy plant within the
FASU's jurisdiction with emphasis on efficiency and cost effective-
ness;
- advising states on the preparation of plant utilization reports
as well as cost accounting analyses on the various road construc-
tion components, e.g. unit length of rcad in different terrain,
culverts, road crossings; and
- conduct a training program in road design, layout and mainte-
nance for Nigerian engineers associated with the ADA program.
(12) Small Implement Engineer
45.       The Small Implement Engineer in the Kaduna FASU will work with the
Senior Civil Engineer and ADPs to develop and adapt animal drawn and hand
held tools. He/she should hold an Agriculture Engineering degree, have expe-
rience with Appropriate Technology and small farm implement in Africa.
He/she will be required to:
- define the need and priority for improved farm implements in
northern Nigeria;
- advise and assist in the development and modifications of
improved farm implements with a focus on animal traction;
- liasion with International Centers on Information and Assis-
tance for Small Implement Application; and
- work with commercial establishments to manufacture or import
appropriate tools.



-92 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 17
(13) Livestock Specialist
46.       The Livestock Specialist in the Kaduna FASU would work with the
FASU-s Senior Agronomist but would principally be responsible for advising on
the Regional Livestock Production Program. He/she would have a degree or
equivalent training in animal husbandry and range management. He/she should
have extensive experience in the development of grazing lands for cattle
operations, prferably under tropical conditions. Field experience with
poultry, pigs, goats, and sheep would be advantageous.
47.       The Livestock Specialist's duties would include:
- Monitoring the ADP Livestock Production Program for northern
Nigeria;
- Establish in-service training programs for Extension Agents
around the following topics: water supplies, improvement of
rangeland productivity, maintenance of records;
- Maintenance of a close liaison with the Federal Department of
Livestock's Project Unit based at Kaduna; and
- Advising on organization of a livestock exchange program for
farmers; and veterinary service.
(14) Irrigation Agronomist
48.       The Irrigation Agronomist in the Kaduna FASU would be a qualified
agronomist with a minimum of five years experience in the layout and imple-
mentation of smallholder irrigation schemes in tropical regions. He/she
should have intimate knowledge of all problems related to the production of
high value, off-season crops traditionally grown in such schemes. He/she will
be responsible to the Senior Agronomist and the duties will include:
- assess the potential for the improvement and possibly expansion
of smallholder irrigation development in the FASU's territory;
- develop a common strategy regarding the design and construction
methodology as well as irrigation practices and technology to
be recommended in developing traditional smallholder irrigation;
- advise and assist managers and irrigation engineers of state-
wide ADPs in the FASU;
- make recommendations for increased ana i-Improved, traini_ax, of a5I
irrigation staff employed by the ADPs;



- 93 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 18
- provide technical advice on specific irrigated agricultural
practices and crop production problems;
- devise a routine system of surveys and inventories of lands suit-
able for small-scale irrigation development as well as of imple-
mentation techniques in line with local shortages of trained man-
power.
(15) Tree Crop Specialist
49.       The Tree Crop Specialist in the Enugu and Ibadan FASUs would work
with the FASU's Senior Agronomist and advise the State ADAs and ADPs on
development of Tree Crops programs. He/she would have a degree in Agriculture
and post graduate qualification in Tropical Agriculture. Experience in
Cocoa and Oil Palm Cultivation on small farms in Africa would be necessary.
Also experience in extension activities and trairLing would be of great ad-
vantage.  He/she would be required to:
- design and execute in-service training programs for Agriculture
Extension Staff.
- assist in the training of trainers in Tree Crop Extension techniques
and methods.
- advise project-related organizations onI their training operations.
- monitor and evaluate ADA and ADP Tree Crop programs.
(16) Soil and Water Conservation Specialist
50.       The Soil and Water Conservation Specia:List in the Enugu FASU
would be a graduate in agricultural engineering with specialist knowledge
of land use planning and soil and water conservation techniques. He/she
should have substantial experience at field level in the practical prob-
lems of soil and water conservation in connectioni with indiscriminate land
clearing and bush burning in tropical Africa. He/she would be responsible to
the Senior Civil Engineer and his/her duties would include:
- Assist the ADAs and ADPs in assessing erosion problems prevailing in
the area under survey and likely to occur when in the future new
areas are to be opened up and roads are to be constructed;
- develop a strategy regarding soil and water conservation measures as
well as specific technology to be reconmended in connection with
rural road construction, and watershed protection, including such
water conservation practices as run-off harvesting ponds and reser-
voirs construction, gully treatment, tierracing, grassed waterways;



-94 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 19
- advise and assist managers and conservation specialists of
statewide ADPs in the FASU;
- make recommendations for improved training of project staff
employed by the ADPs and ADA both within and outside ser-
vice, including the revisions of curricula at existing train-
ing colleges and centers;
- provide technical advice to ADPs on their specific soil and
water conservation problems and alert state governments to
measures needed to be taken outside the ADPs scope;
- devise and test a routine system of surveys and inventories
needed in connection with the above program as well as stan-
dard soil and water conservation measures to be adopted.



ANNEX 6
95 -                                      TABLE 1
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Specialist Staff Summary
(Mostly Internationally Recruited)
Duration
Number                                                                         of         Number
of                                                                       Assignment       of
Staff                                                                        (Years)   Staff Years
I.  APMEPU 1/3/              1          Head                                                               3            3
1          Chief Statistician                                                 3            3
2          Senior Programmer                                                  3, 5         8
l          Chief Evaluation Officer                                           5            5
8          Senior Evaluation Officer 2/                                       3, 5        28
l          Senior Evaluation Officer 7/                                       4            4
Sub-Total          14                                                                                         5l
II.  FACU 1/ 6/               1          Program Coordinator                                                3            3
1          Financial Controller                                               3            3
1          Rural Infrastructure Coordinator                                   3            3
1          AIDS Team Leader                                                   5            5
1          Financial and Banking Expert                                       3            3
1          Communication Specialist                                           3            3
1          Senior Agriculture Policy Planner                                  3            3
1          Senior Agriculture Research & Extension Coordinator                3            3
1          Senior Agriculture & Management Training Coordinator               3            3
I          Senior Management Information Officer                              3            3
1           Financial Analyst                                                 3            3
1          Rice Milling Expert                                                3            3
4          Water Supply Specialists 3/                                        3           12
Sub-Total         16                                                                                         50
III.  FASUs (Four) 1/         4          Head                                                               3          12
4          Cost Accountant                                                    5          20
4          Senior Manaeement Information Officers                             3           12
4          Senior Agricultural Planner                                        3           12
4          Senior Agronomist                                                  3           12
4          Extension Trainer                                                  3           12
4          Rural Civil Engineer                                               3           12
4          Agro-Industrial Expert                                             3           12
4          Senior Civil Engineer                                              3           12
3          Management Trainers 4/ 5/ 6/                                       3            9
3          Senior Training & Manpower Development Experts 4/ 5/ 6/            3            9
2          Tree Crops Specialists  5/ 6/                                      3            6
1          Livestock Production Specialist 3/                                 3            3
1          Irrigation Agronomist 3/                                           3            3
l          Small Implements Specialist 3/                                     3            3
1          Soil & Water Conservation Specialist _/                            3            3
Sub-Total          48                                                                                        152
Total              73                                                                                        253
1/ Does not include aircraft pilot budgeted under operating expenses.
2/ Three assigned to surveys, three to analysis, (3 years) and two to training (5 years). The evaluation officer
listed last would be assigned to the southern ottice.
3/  Stationed in Kaduna
4/ Stationed in Jos
5/ Stationed in Enugu
6/ Stationed in Ibadan
March 23, 1981



- 96 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 1
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
RURAL WATER SUPPLY CONSULTANTS
Draft Terms of Reference
General
1.        The Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD) has requested
World Bank assistance to establish a rural water development planning unit as
part of its Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (ATAP). The Unit would
be located in FDRD's Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU), and based
in Kaduna. It would provide technical assistance to the FDRD and State
Government Ministries in the form of:
i)   advice on matters relating to the formulation, programming
and financing of rural water development plans;
ii)   advice on the use of hydrogeological exploration and siting
techniques which would be most suitable for the small-scale
rural water supply envisaged;
iii)   guidelines regarding the implementation of rural water supply
programs either by force account or under contract; and
iv)   expertise in the selection and testing of water lifting devices
to fit the specific requirements of small-scale rural water
supply points as well as in the organization of rural water supply
system maintenance programs.
2.        The rural water supply systems with which this group would be
concerned would vary from simple reinforced concrete wells and boreholes
equipped with hand pumps to more sophisticated systems equipped with a
motorized pumping plant and a small network of standpipes. The number of
inhabitants per community served would not be expected to exceed 2,000.
3.        The consulting firm would supply four specialists in the fields of
rural water supply engineering, hydrogeology, borehole drilling and mechanics
of water lifting devices. Their draft terms of reference are given below.
Senior Rural Water Supply Engineer
4.        The Senior Rural Water Supply Engineer (SRWSE) would head the unit
and advise on all matters related to rural water planning, financing and
development and would report to the Head of FACU.  The SRiBS  vould be a



- 97 -                                ANNEX 7
Page 2
qualified rural water engineer, was a minimum of ten years professional
experience in the planning, design, management and operation of rural water
supply systems, of which a substantial part would have concerned problems of
rural engineering in developing countries. He/she would have had senior
administrative responsibility and would be accustomed to working with govern-
ment agencies.
5.        The duties of the SRWSE would include:
i)   advising senior officials of the FDRD and officials of
relevant State ministries concerned with rural water supply
on:
-    the overall needs for rural and stock watering facilities;
-    the formulation of development strategies to meet these
demands in the short, medium, and long-term, including
the establishment of water supply criteria, standards and,
where applicable, tariffs;
-    the division of responsibilities among implementing govern-
ment agencies concerned with rura:L water supply;
ii)   supervising the preparation of terms oiF reference for rural water
supply master plans and feasibility studies as well as requests
for financing; and
-    overseeing the preparation of contract documents (including
tenders for international competitive bidding) for the
implementation of rural water supply related contracts.
-    collaborating with relevant federal and state authorities
in assessing manpower and training requirements in the
rural water supply sector.
Senior Hydrogeologist
6.        The Senior Hydrogeologist would be responsible for all matters
related to groundwater hydrology. He/she would report to the senior rural
water supply engineer. He/she would be a professionally trained hydro-
geologist with at least ten years field experience in developing countries and
be fully familiar with the practical aspects of groundwater development for
rural water supply.
7.        The duties of the Senior Hydrogeologist: would include:
i)   assisting FDRD and officials of relevant state ministries
concerned with rural water supply in:
-    reviewing the present state of knowledge of shallow
groundwater supplies, identifying areas where hydrogeo-
logical information is lacking and setting priorities for
additional studies;



- 98 -                                ANNEX 7
Page 3
preparing terms of reference for hydrogeological exploration
and specifying the equipment and expertise required to do so
most efficiently;
examining the groundwater exploration and exploitation
techniques currently used by federal and state agencies in
support of rural water supply programs and specifying
possible alternative equipment and techniques to do so more
efficiently;
arranging for the acquisition of such remote sensing infor-
mation as Side Scanning Radar and Satellite Imagery, which
would facilitate rural water supply exploration;
designing procedures to record, store and retrieve data on
groundwater occurrence (water levels, well records and yields
etc) as well as on location of a rural water supply installa-
tions;
ii)   training of Nigerian staff.
Senior Drilling Engineers
8.        The Senior Drilling Engineer would be responsible for all matters
related to drilling both for groundwater exploration and exploitation. He/she
would report to the senior water supply engineer. He/she would be a highly
qualified drilling engineer with at least ten years experience in the planning,
management and operation of large-scale groundwater drilling contracts, and
should be fully familiar with a wide range of drilling equipment, techniques
and practices.
9.        The duties of the Senior Drilling Engineer would include:
i)   advising FDRD and officials of relevant state ministries
concerned with rural water supply on:
-    assessing the drilling services (both type and quantity)
neded for the implementation of the nation's rural water
supply program in the short and medium-term;
-    identifying sources from where these needs can be met most
economically and expeditiously, whether off-shore and local
contractors or government operated drilling enterprises;
-    assessing such drilling materials as casings and screens
which are currently manufactured or utilized in the country
and making recommendations for alternates;
-    preparing terms of reference for rural water supply con-
sultants to be engaged as "Resident Engineers" to supervise
large-scale drilling contracts;



- 99 -                                ANNEX 7
Page 4
preparing contract documents, including technical speci-
fications, for drilling contracts as well as for supply
of drilling equipment and materials;,
assessing the manpower and training requirements under
various proportions of drilling to be undertaken under
contract or by Government force account; and
-    designing, where applicable, training programs (including
curriculum and equipment needs) for water well drilling
operators, at the federal or state level.
ii)   training of Nigerian staff.
Senior Mechanical Engineer
10.       The Senior Mechanical Engineer (SME) would be responsible for all
matters related to water lifting devices and water distribution installations
and report to the senior water supply engineer.  He/she would be a highly
qualified mechanical engineer with a minimum of ten years experience in
planning, designing and installing rural water supply systems. A thorough
knowledge of and experience with a wide range of waLter lifting devices, of
particular practical relevance to the exacting cond[itions of use in rural
areas, would be essential.
11.       The SME's duties would include:
i)   assisting FDRD and officials of relevant state ministries concerned
with rural water supply in:
-    assessing the type of rural water supply installations
(both type and estimated numbers) currently most commonly
used in the country;
-    recommending alternate rural water supply installations
including water lifting devices suitable for introduction
on a large-scale;
-    designing and supervising testing programs for modern water
lifting devices, (including wind and solar powered pumps,
etc.) which would show promise for large-scale introduction
at a later stage;
-    designing model plans for the operation and maintenance of
rural water supply programs by Local Government Authorities,
keeping State Government assistance minimal; and
-    reviewing curricular at existing federal or state schools
and training centers of relevance to rural water supply
systems and installations, paying particular attention to
the training of pump technicians and mechanics; making
recommendations for improvement.
ii)   training of Nigerian staff.






NIGERIA
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT UNIT (FASU)
| Director F DR D   |
Ministry                        National:
A          -         of Science &        -            FeTtilizer Co.
Technology                      & Seed Service
FASU                           Researc                         State Inpu
Institute         - -          Supply Units
(4) ~~~~~Nt& I nternnit
SECTION\I    |gEvaluat                           Management                                                           Rural                             annng                                                                   ranng
| Data Processing                    Information                    & Ext. Training                 DInfrastructure                       l                                In  trial                             T
Research                        Seetond                         detfcioRural                                                                HQ
Liaison                           esion                                                           Industries                             Training
Design
Roads                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Support
Village Listing                 InrsrcueCrop Husbandry                                                                                                                  Credit                                  ADA
g                 ructure                      ~~~~~~~~~~Farms                Construction                      Peaain&FnneTann
FUNCTI OhlNl 
Area, Yield                    CFarm Input                          Crop                         Maintenance                                                                                        _u         ADPp   i
Price Survey                       Credit                   Recommendations                       & Training                                                                                                  Trai i
Specific                        ExtensionAprrlaeWkso
| SProblemys "   * +  -|    Extension        l           -|   Technology                          Supor
Estimation                      Rural Water
Commercial                        o Farm                            Design
Resw~~~~~~~~~~~th ~~~~ ~nputS
-Coordinate                                                  Extension
Control   1  Project Accounts |   1   Training                                                        B
World Bank-21E49



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MONITORING EVALUATION AND PLANNING UNIT
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
| Director FDRD      l
MANAGEMENT
Deputy Head                                            Head
SECTION               Administration                                              Evaluation                                    Data Processing
I   J                                    I  ~~~~~~~~ADA ADP2|  
OPERATION
l   Evaluation                                Computer
|  Surveys      !      Training .   |  *           &                 Programming               Operation
Policy Planning                                  Maintenance
Design         l          Headq uarter   ||     Agriucltural   ||                                  Data       l
l   l   l  Training  l  1   Sector   l                          1        Entry
iUNCTION
Implementation          Field Support            Data Analysis
Coding
*  Validation                               .     Evaluation
Editing                                _     ADA ADP
World Bank -21850



IB R D 50I
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~NIGERIA
IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
Lak  Chad               ~~Completed  and  Apporased
Ng-  r,                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agriciiltiirol Development Projects:
L~1 COMPLETED:
F-r-o (Lo- 1092-UNI)
G ...au(L.-- 1099- UNI)
,0"  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~Goob. Loon 1164-UN I)
A  N  0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~od                                                                    jEXISTING
B  IR   N                                                Lh.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[o:  (Lo.. 1454-UNI)
I                                                              z- ~~~~~~~4Ayongbo ([non 1455-UNI)
I)                                                                                                                                                           M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pf,uAl  B,R tdo 8oo- 1667- UNI)
J.IIo(L...n1668 -UN!)
Oyo Nwth (Lo- 1838 -UNI)
Ekciti Akdik ([oL-1d-LINI(
Ba-hi Stole
Kann Stat.
i.d                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APPRAISED'
B  u    c                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sokato Stole
Moaebili.
Kom.g...                                                                                                                                   'J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l    NDER PREPARATION:
lA..o,.Stole
B.da  North
i~~~~HADOg:
K,f-                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B.-n S.lat
Rine- Stole
'N                 [aent~L.g  Stote
P   L  A   T   F    A                              nJLXTraining Pro)ects:
\  ~~         A5n9i-olt-to  and R-Io
Manoge..t.nI To-ie.gIntte
,.g  CAPITAL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(on1719-UNI)
Tree Crop ProjecEs:
61                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING
C'>T.  onn   I (Lnon 764-UNI) and
AE                                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cnno 0 (loa 1045 -UNI)
On,do 01 Pa1lo (oaL .. 19- UNI)
D   0                                                                                                                                       B..d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en dnl: Palo (Lann 1183-UNI)
lien Oil Polo (loo 1191 -UNI)
K-- A                                                                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ri-ne  Sltet 0:1 Palo (Loo  1525 -UN 1
u ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cii.Fonenry (Loon 1679 -UNI()
APPRAISED-
zt= cninnnnnWcin.O.in:k~n~n'.oCnas  Rica Slata Edtai (Oil Polo,)
A  0 Or S  0"'   -f                                                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
k- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ircnnln ~-                                                           OUn                  EXISTING
tntltronnonnaannc           C AL7nI                                               Liv-'V  Wento DevelopmeCo  Pronoect
.11T "lis                           fG~~~,-5c10:10  lt                    (Loanh Eas91l -  o RU nh
ii~~ W  I?D 1~,- 11noon                  c                              3        An-oIl/ P.otlra Innatigosion Centen
Big4i   0/    Bonny                        o~~~~~MI   80  Z0no aAi nyRnrOan                                     li                                Gr-c:n  R-tr-a - Polani 0100  Ronch.t



