OFFIC IAL
DOCUMENTS        LOAN NUMBER 2048 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Second Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated            O   &er9          , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2048 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Otd40      q          , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) part of the Project will be carried out by Societe des
Transports Abidjanais (SOTRA) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower, will grant land
to SOTRA and relend to SOTRA part of the proceeds of the Loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SOTRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between CAA (as hereinafter
defined) on behalf of the Borrower and SOTRA pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) hereof.


﻿-2-
(b) "SOTRA" means la Societe des Transports Abidjanais,
a public transport company established in 1960 in which the
Government of Ivory Coast currently owns 60.2% of the share
capital.
(c) "SOTRA Statuts" means SOTRA's statutes of 1960, as
amended to the date hereof.
(d) "TMU" means the Traffic Management Unit or Bureau
de Circulation, established .pursuant to Section 3.08 of the Prior
Loan Agreement.
(e) "CFAF" or "CFA franc" means the currency of the
Borrower.
(f) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan agreement (Urban
Development Project) between the Borrower and the Bank dated
December 15, 1976 (Loan No. 1347-IVC), as amended from time to
time.
(g) "OSER" means the Road Safety Agency within the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport.
(h) "DCU" means the Central Directorate of Urbanism within
the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism.
(i) "URS" means the projected above-ground mass rail transit
system for Abidjan.
(j) "CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, an
etablissement public of the Borrower, established and operating
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-one million dollars ($51,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿-3-
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the LGan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
ten and six-tenths per cent (10.6%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall: (i) carry out Parts A
1 through 5 and D 1 through 4 of the Project through its Ministry
of Public Works and Transport; (ii) carry out Parts B, C, D 5 and
D 6 of the Project through its Ministry of Construction and
Urbanism; (iii) cause the municipal authorities of Daloa and
Korhogo to carry out Part D 7 of the Project; and (iv) cause SOTRA
to carry out Parts A 6 and D 8 of the Project; all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public transportation


﻿practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services, personnel and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall (i) not later than
June 30, 1982 make available to SOTRA as a grant the land or
rights in respect of land required for the construction of the bus
depot and (ii) relend through CAA the proceeds of the Loan allo-
cated to finance Parts A 6 and D 8 of the Project to SOTRA under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between CAA on behalf
of the Borrower and SOTRA on terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its right under the SOTRA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the SOTRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower, SOTRA and
the municipalities of Daloa and Korhogo in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall (i) employ experts and consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and (ii) make the
services of those consultants available to SOTRA, Daloa and
Korhogo as required for the purpose of carrying out the Project.
(b) The annual traffic management and road maintenance
programs and the curriculum for the training programs for
engineers to be carried out under Parts A 5 and D 3 of the Project
respectively, shall be acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain the TMU in exis-
tence and cause it to be adequately staffed until at least the
completion of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿-5-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause SOTRA
to furnish to the Bank for its approval, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, master lists of goods,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to maintain
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; (iii) shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Bank at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds and undertakes that all
such information to be furnished pursuant to this subparagraph
shall be collected and recorded in accordance with statistical
methods and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (iv) without
limitation to the foregoing, shall furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Bank, within 60 days of the end of each quarter,
commencing with the quarter ending December 31, 1981 and until the
completion of the Project, a report in a form satisfactory to the
Bank on the progress made in carrying out the Project.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall promptly furnish
to the Bank, upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. Upon the award of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall consult with the Bank
on its policy with regard to the construction of the URS taking
into account the results of the additional studies for the imple-
mentation of the URS to be carried out under Part D 2 of the
Project.
(b) Each year the Borrower shall consult with the Bank
during the preparation of its investment programs in the transport
sector in the greater metropolitan area of Abidjan for the next
following year prior to incorporating such programs in the invest-
ment budget for that following year.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall define a.medium term finan-
cial strategy for SOTRA, acceptable to the Bank, on the basis
of the conclusions and recommendations of the SOTRA study to be
carried out under Part D 8 of the Project, and thereafter shall
take or cause to be taken all measures necessary for the prompt
implementation of such strategy.
Section 3.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause SOTRA from time to time to take all steps
necessary, including adjustments in its rates, as shall be neces-
sary for SOTRA to maintain an annual working ratio for each
financial year, starting with the year commencing on October 1,
1981 of not less than 1:1.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the annual working ratio shall be calculated in respect
of each fiscal year by dividing the gross operating revenues
from fares, to all operating expenses; and


﻿-7-
(b) the term "operating expenses" includes: direct costs
of operation, administrative, overhead and adequate maintenance
expenses, and taxes (if any), but does not include depreciation,
interest and other charges on debt.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause the municipalities of
Daloa and Korhogo to prepare annual budgets, starting for the
fiscal year 1983, which allocate sufficient funds for maintenance
of the civil works to be carried out under Parts B and C of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.


﻿-8-
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Ivory Coast, of any political or administ-
rative subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled
by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Ivory Coast or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Ivory Coast; provided, however, that for the purposes of
this Section, the term "entity" shall not apply to Ivory Coast
State Companies which are organized as business corporations in
accordance with laws and regulations applicable to private
companies and whose activities are not reflected in the Ivory
Coast's budget, except that the provisions of this Section shall
apply to any such entity to the extent that it would hold any
foreign exchange assets on behalf of the Ivory Coast.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause
the municipal authorities of Daloa and Korhogo to maintain
separate Project Accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year commencing with the year ending December 31, 1981 and includ-
ing the year in which the Project is completed.    These accounts
shall reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appro-
priate accounting practices the operations, resources and expendi-
tures in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SOTRA to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of SOTRA.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts provided
for under (a) above audited, and shall cause SOTRA to have the
records, provided for under (b) above audited, in either case, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
eight months after the end of each fiscal year, (A) certified
copies of these financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audits by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank suct other information concerning
the accounts and financial statemenLs of the Project and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain or
cause SOTRA to take out and maintain with responsible insurers
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall at all times adequately
maintain and repair, or cause to be adequately maintained and
repaired, all buildings, roads, other civil works and traffic
signals and other equipment provided under the Project, in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering, construction and public
utility standards and with due regard to appropriate financial and
economic standards.
(b) The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary
to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using
its highways shall be consistent with the structural and geometric
design standards of such highways.
(c) The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance
with appropriate statistical methods and procedures such tech-
nical, economic and financial information as shall be reasonably
required for proper planning of maintenance, improvements and
extension of its highway and traffic signal system.
Section 4.05. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if SOTRA shall repay to the Borrower in advance
of maturity any part of its indebtedness under the SOTRA Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly notify
the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date an amount equivalent to the amount so
repaid by SOTRA. All the provisions of the General Conditions
relating to repayment in advance of maturity shall be applicable
to any repayment by the Borrower in accordance with this Section.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) SOTRA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of SOTRA under the SOTRA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement which, in the judgment of the Bank, could materially and
adversely affect the execution of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall prevent SOTRA to perform its obligations under the SOTRA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) SOTRA's statutes or ownership shall have been changed
in such a way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
SOTRA to carry out any covenant, agreements or obligation of SOTRA
under the SOTRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SOTRA or for the suspension of its operations without at
the same time substituting for SOTRA another entity which will
assume SOTRA's obligations under the SOTRA Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and SOTRA; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely
that the SOTRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed by CAA
on behalf of the Borrower and by SOTRA.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 of the General
Conditions, to be included in the legal opinion to be furnished to
the Bank, namely that the SOTRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized by the parties and is legally binding in accor-
dance with its terms.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.03. The date      &t 21 let&, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
S-ction 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Economy and Finance
P.O. Box 1766
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFIN                             MINIFIN 747
Abidjan                             Abidjan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST
By IS f   hAAkO I&tt         &o
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By (      ( a. WawUo tuox
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works under:
(a) Part A 1                27,000,000       45%
through 5
(b) Part A 6                 1,300,000       45%
(c) Part B                   2,800,000       50%
(d) Part C                   1,700,000       50%
(2) Equipment for:
(a) Part A 1 and 4           3,600,000       45%
(b) Part A 6                   300,000       45%
(c) Parts B and C            1,200,000       50%
(3) Operating expenditures
(excluding salaries)
of municipal services
in:
(a) Daloa                    300,000       50%
(b) Korhogo                  300,000       50%


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Technical Assistance and       7,500,000       60%
Consultants' Services
(5) Unallocated                    5,000,000
TOTAL               51,000,000     -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals,


﻿- 15 -
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000
may be made in respect of preparation of the first year's program
under Part D 1, monitoring under Part D 6 and formation of a
traffic planning unit within SOTRA under Part D 8 of the Project,
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after July 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above,,if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category or subcategory
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category or subcategory, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category or sub-
category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
or subcategory and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed
to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category or subcategory may con-
tinue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no,
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's main objectives are to develop the public
transport system and traffic flow throughout Abidjan. The improve-
ments envisaged for Daloa and Korhogo form part of a pilot
program, set up to develop a balanced regional development
strategy. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Transport in Abidjan
1.   Reconstruction and improvement of the Western Bypass includ-
ing establishment of two reserved bus lanes and including the con-
struction of a sewer under part of that road and linking of the
Western Bypass to the East-West Highway.
2.   Upgrading of about 20 bus terminals and about 80 bus stops.
3.   Construction of two underpasses for pedestrians at the Agban
interchange bus station.
4.   Construction of a network of about 8 kilometers of primary
roads within the Banco area.
5.   Continuation within the central business district of Abidjan
and introduction in Abidjan's Treichville, Marcory, Koumassi and
Adjame districts of annual traffic management and maintenance
programs consisting of road paving, junction improvements, place-
ment of traffic signals and street lights, and road sign and
traffic sign maintenance.
6.   Construction of a bus depot for 180 buses.
Part B:   Pilot Program in Daloa
1.   Improvement and repair of existing streets in the Dioulabou-
gou neighborhood.
2.   Construction of an access road of approximately 800 meters to
the Huberson neighborhood and access roads of approximately 3.1
and 5.7 kilometers length respectively to the future Abattoir area
and northern housing area;


﻿- 17 -
3.   Paving of about 3 hectares of the Orly and Central markets
and construction of a new paved market place of about 1 hectare
in the new Abattoir area.
4.   Rehabilitation and expansion of the municipal garage for
maintenance vehicles.
Part C:   Pilot Program in Korhogo
1.   Improvement and repair of existing streets in Korhogo's
central area.
2.   Paving of the central market parking, five neighborhood
market areas and the country bus station.
3.   Rehabilitation of an urban clinic; rehabilitation of existing
primary schools; construction of a social center and construction
of a municipal garage.
Part D:   Studies and Monitoring
1.   Preparation and implementation of traffic management, road
safety and public transport management studies for Abidjan,
Bouake and other secondary cities by the TMU, including the
provision of necessary equipment.
2.   Preparation of additional studies for the implementation of
the proposed URS.
3.   Carrying out by the National School for Public Works in
Yamoussoukro of training programs in traffic management and
urbanism for civil engineers at that school.
4.   Preparation of cost-effective programs for road safety by
OSER.
5.   Carrying out of a preinvestment study by DCU for secondary
cities.
6.   Monitoring by DCU or the first urban development project
carried out pursuant to the Prior Loan Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
7.   Strengthening of the municipal administration of Daloa
and Korhogo following administrative reorganization, by the
introduction of appropriate budgetary procedures, training of
municipal workers, improvement of tax collection, and land regi-
stration procedures and updating of Daloa's existing land title
register, including the provision of necessary materials during
the first two years of the Project and adequate equipment.
8.   Preparation and implementation of a medium term operational
and financial strategy for SOTRA.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1986
through   February 15, 1998                1,960,000
On August 15, 1998                              2,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.85%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          3.75%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   6.85%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                   9.35%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  10.60%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
I.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with thuse set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   (a) To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works for
operational improvements in bus operations, pedestrian
facilities, improvements and maintenance of streets and
sidewalks under Part A of the Project shall be grouped
to permit efficient bulk procurement.
(b) Contracts for goods and works other than those provided
for in (a) above shall be grouped so as to permit local
firms to bid.
3.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other


﻿- 22 -
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to
the Ivory Coast of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
Ivory Coast may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Ivory Coast equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 23 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works and for the purchase of equipment
for Parts B and C of the Project may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $50,000 each may be procured on the basis
of solicitation of price quotations from at least three local
suppliers, provided, however, that the price of the contracts so
procured shall in the aggregate not exceed the equivalent of
$2,000,000.
3.   Civil works under Parts B and C of the Project may be carried
out by force account by the municipalities of Daloa and Korhogo,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for


﻿- 24 -
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.. Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform


﻿- 25 -
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  qfl%    day of 0(k., 198
FOR SECRETARY


