Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  01/12/2010 
Report No.:  AC4976
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Iraq 
Project ID:  P111074 
Project Name:  IQ: Integrated National Energy Strategy Technical Assistance 
Task Team Leader:  Michael Levitsky 
Estimated Appraisal Date: September 27, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: December 30, 2009 
Managing Unit:  MNSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Oil and gas (60%);Power (30%);General energy sector (10%) 
Theme:  Other economic management (40%);Other environment and natural resources 
management (30%);Infrastructure services for private sector development (10%);State 
enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (10%);Regulation and competition policy 
(10%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Iraq Reconstruction Trust Fund 
5.00
5.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Project's development objective is to improve the ability of the Government to 
develop an energy strategy that is designed to increase the contribution of the sector to 
sustainable development.  The US$5 million ITF grant provided through the Project will 
be allocated by the Government of Iraq (GoI) to the financing of strategic energy 
consultants ("the Consultant"), whose task it will be to support the GoI in developing an 
Integrated National Energy Strategy (INES).  The GoI has appointed a Steering 
Committee to produce an INES, consisting of representatives of the main ministries 
engaged with the energy sector, and led by the Head of the Prime Minister's Advisory 
Commission (PMAC).  The Committee will work with the Consultant. Through the 
eventual delivery of the final INES, with an Implementation Plan, this Project is designed 
to help improve the likelihood that Iraq's energy resources can be utilized effectively to 
support sustainable development.   
 
Page  2
3. Project Description 
The INES will be a comprehensive and detailed strategy for the whole of the energy 
sector.  It will provide an overall decision-making framework for energy policies, 
institutional development and investments. It will also highlight investment priorities and 
identify key investments required within the strategy.  However, the INES is not a 
complete technical and investment plan for energy development, rather, it will provide 
the detailed policy, institutional and strategic framework for review and discussion within 
the Government and among stakeholders.The work will provide a rigorous basis upon 
which policies and investments can be designed and implemented, in a fully coordinated 
manner.  
 
The Project deliverables will include:  
 
a) 
Review of the key energy sector characteristics,  
 
b)
Review of energy strategy experience in other countries with similar economic 
and energy circumstances,  
 
c) 
Analysis of Iraq's strategic options for energy sector development, including  
institutional and regulatory structure and framework for priority investments,  
 
d)
Review of key environmental and social policy issues relevant to the energy 
sector and development of key strategic recommendations on how to address these issues,  
 
e) 
Assessment of Iraq's energy equipment supply and services industries, their 
potential and needs for capacity building,  
 
f) 
Development of an implementation plan for the INES,  
 
g) 
Dissemination and publication of the INES, including the review of 
environmental and social issues.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The Project will be implemented by the PMAC, based in the Prime Minister's Office in 
Baghdad.  Staff of the Consultant will visit Iraq on a basis to be determined, primarily for 
data gathering and client consultations and reporting.  The bulk of the analysis is 
expected to be completed at a location to be agreed between the Consultant and the GoI.  
The work will not involve any physical investment or evaluation of specific investment 
projects.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Eleodoro O. Mayorga Alba (LCSEN) 
Mr Colin S. Scott (MNSSO) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Safeguard policy in Iraq is directed by the Environmental and Social Screening and 
Assessment Framework (ESSAF) (as revised in April 2006), which prescribes special 
procedures to account for the continuing instability in the country.  The proposed Project 
finances international and local advisory services as well as information dissemination 
activities related to the final deliverable.  The Project has been rated as a Category B 
technical assistance project, since the energy sector in Iraq presents many high-profile 
and sensitive environmental and social issues.  In the Bank's view it is important to give 
full coverage to these issues, and also to provide some scope for public comment in these 
key areas.   In order to give due weight to environmental and social issues, the Consultant 
would produce a stand-alone report on these.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The Project will provide high level technical assistance on strategy and policy for the 
energy sector. This assistance may contribute to decisions about future investments in the 
energy sector, which would have associated environmental and social impacts.  However, 
investments will be subject to many policy, economic and technical decisions that are 
beyond the scope of the Project.  Any future investments will be subject to specific 
environmental and social review, and the Project will also provide recommendations for 
strengthening of such review systems.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The INES will include a stand-alone Report detailing the main environmental and social 
issues relevant to an energy strategy for Iraq, and the associated mitigation interventions 
Page  4
(policies, regulations, etc.).  This Report will be utilized both as a stand-alone reference 
and as a source in developing the INES.  
 
The Report on Environmental and Social Issues in the Energy Sector will include a 
thorough review of the following areas:  
 
-
Environmental impact of oil and gas operations,  
 
-
Environmental impact of power sector operations,  
 
-
Environmental impact of end-use of energy in the transportation, industrial and 
household sectors,  
 
-
Social aspects of energy sector investments and operations,  
 
-
Institutional and regulatory models for the management of environmental and social 
impacts of energy sector operations,  
 
-
Use of Environmental and Social Impact Assessments in the energy sector,  
 
-
Examples of relevant practice from other countries with similar energy sector 
conditions,  
 
-
Institutional and regulatory reform options Iraq for in these areas, and  
 
-
Considerations relating to the international policy framework to address climate 
change.  
 
The capacity of the Government of Iraq to implement the Project is subject to risks 
inherent in the fragile and post-conflict context.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The stand-alone Report on Environmental and Social Issues in the Energy Sector will be 
made available to Government and public sector agencies, and to other knowledgeable 
stakeholders, at the Second Interim stage of the Project reporting schedule 
(approximately 12 months after the start of the Consultant's work). Feedback will be 
sought from the recipients of the Report. Workshops will be organized with relevant 
stakeholders in order to discuss the draft Report's main findings and recommendations. 
Feedback received will be taken into account in the final Report.  Upon completion, final 
Strategy documents will be readily and freely available to all stakeholders, including 
online.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
12/24/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/24/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/24/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
12/24/2009  
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Page  5
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
This is a Technical Assistance Project, and the Environmental Assessment is thus not 
applicable.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
N/A 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Page  6
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Michael Levitsky 
12/16/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Eleodoro O. Mayorga Alba 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Colin S. Scott 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Hocine Chalal 
12/16/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Jonathan D. Walters 
12/16/2009 
Comments:   
