                                      Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                    Report No: ICR00003035




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-95802)

                                      ON A GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 6.9 MILLION

                         TO THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAQ

                                       FOR THE

   INTEGRATED NATIONAL ENERGY STRATEGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                           PROJECT

                                DECEMBER 26, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective December 9, 2013)

                          Currency Unit = USD

                   USD1 = 1,164.02 IQD (Iraqi Dinar)

                    GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                      [January 1 – December 31]


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
ESIA     Economic and Social Impact Assessment
ESSAF    Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
E&P      Exploration and Production
GoI      Government of Iraq
FM       Financial Management
FMA      Fiduciary Monitoring Agent
FO       Financial Officer
FY       Fiscal Year
GGFR     Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership
GoI      Government of Iraq
IDA      International Development Association
IEM      Integrated Energy Model
INES     Integrated National Energy Strategy
INESTA   Integrated National Energy Strategy Technical Assistance
IOC      International Oil Companies
IRFFI    International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
ISR      Implementation and Status Report
ITF      Iraq Trust Fund
MoIM     Ministry of Industry and Minerals
mmbo/d   Million barrels of oil per day
MoE      Ministry of Electricity
MoO      Ministry of Oil
OP/BP    Operational Policy/Bank Policy
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMAC     Prime Minister’s Advisory Commission
PMO      Prime Minister’s Office
PMT      Project Management Team
PO       Procurement Officer
PSC      Project Steering Committee



                                   2
RAS         Reimbursable Advisory Services
TA          Technical Assistance
TF          Trust Fund
UN          United Nations
USD         United States Dollar
WB          World Bank




      Vice President:                  Inger Andersen
      Country Director:                Ferid Belhaj
      Sector Manager:                  Charles Joseph Cormier
      Project Team Leader:             Simon J. Stolp
      ICR Team Leader and Author:      Ferhat Esen




                                      3
                                             REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

INTEGRATED NATIONAL ENERGY STRATEGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE



                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................. 12
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 17
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 26
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 33
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 33
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 36
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 38

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 39
  Annex 2. Executive Summary of the INES Report ...................................................... 40
  Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 46
  Annex 4. Summary of Borrower’s ICR ........................................................................ 48
  Annex 5. Arrangements for Results Monitoring .......................................................... 51
  Annex 6. Consultant Terms of Reference and Deliverables ......................................... 53
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 59


  MAP




                                                             4
A. Basic Information
                                                                          IQ- Integrated National
                                                                          Energy Strategy
Country:                Iraq                    Project Name:
                                                                          Technical Assistance

Project ID:             P111074                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-95802
ICR Date:               12/09/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Grantee:                  IRAQ

Original Total
                        USD5.00 million         Disbursed Amount:         USD 6,88 million
Commitment:
                        USD6.90 million
Revised Amount:

Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Prime Minister’s Office – Prime Minister’s Advisory Commission (PMAC)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: Government of Iraq co-financing in the amount of
USD1.6 million



B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/02/2009     Effectiveness:             02/11/2010             -
                                     Restructuring(s):
Appraisal:            09/28/2009     GA Amendment                                 12/02/2010
                                     Closing Date Ext.                            06/06/2012
Approval:             01/11/2010     Mid-term Review:           11/15/2011        11/15/2011
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2012        06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory




                                                5
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Highly Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                                    No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                                    No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                                Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General Energy Sector                                                10                   10
Power                                                                30                   30
Oil & Gas                                                            60                   60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development               10                   10
Other economic management                                            40                   40
Other environment and natural resources management                   30                   30
Regulation and competition policy                                    10                   10
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization               10                   10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:                      Inger Andersen                       Shamshad Akhtar
Country Director:                     Ferid Belhaj                           Hedi Larbi
Sector Manager:                 Charles Joseph Cormier                    Jonathan Walters
Project Team Leader:                 Simon J. Stolp                       Michael Levitsky
ICR Team Leader:                      Ferhat Esen
ICR Primary Author:                   Ferhat Esen



                                                6
      F. Results Framework Analysis

      Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

      The Project’s development objective is to improve the ability of the Government to
      develop an energy strategy that is designed to increase the contribution of the sector to
      sustainable development.

      Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

      N/A

      (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally
                                                                              Actual Value Achieved at
                                              Values (from        Revised
      Indicator         Baseline Value                                         Completion or Target
                                                approval          Target
                                                                                       Years
                                              documents)          Values
Indicator 1 :       Completion of the INES
Value
                              0%                  100%             100%                 100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved             09/30/2010            06/30/2012        06/30/2013       06/30/2013
Comments            Fully achieved. The Integrated National Energy Strategy (INES) Report has been
(incl. %            successfully completed. The Report was completed as planned and disseminated
achievement)        through a high-level event on June 12, 2013 in Baghdad/Iraq.
                    Approval of INES Implementation Plan by the Steering Committee and submission of
Indicator 2 :
                    Plan for endorsement and execution by the Government.
Value
(quantitative)                0%                  100%             100%                 100%

Date achieved              09/30/2010           06/30/2012       06/30/2013              06/30/2013
                    Fully achieved. The INES Implementation Plan was approved by the Steering
Comments
                    Committee. The Report was submitted to the Council of Ministers and endorsed on
(incl. %
                    April 16, 2013. The Plan is now under implementation by the Government as official
achievement)
                    Energy Strategy.
                    Final Strategy documents readily and freely available to all stakeholders, including
Indicator 3 :
                    online.
Value
                              0%                  100%             100%                 100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved             09/30/2010            06/30/2012     06/30/2013            06/30/2013
Comments            Fully achieved. The Report was widely disseminated in a stakeholder event held in
(incl. %            Baghdad on June 12, 2013, and made readily and freely available to the general public
achievement)        through online format since July 12, 2013.




                                                  7
     (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target
                                                                Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                                               Values (from
      Indicator        Baseline Value                            Revised     at Completion or Target
                                                 approval
                                                              Target Values           Years
                                                documents)
                   A policy and strategy for the development of gas resources for domestic and export
Indicator 1 :
                   markets.
Value
                              0%                    100%              100%                 100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved             09/30/2010            06/30/2012      06/30/2013         06/30/2013
Comments           Fully achieved. The INES recommends the policy and strategy for gas development
(incl. %           and the development of domestic and export markets. These recommendations are now
achievement)       being implemented.
                   A suggested integrated investment program for the energy sector including priority
Indicator 2 :
                   investments, implementation plans and costs.
Value
                              0%                    100%              100%                 100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved             09/30/2010              06/30/2012       06/30/2013           06/30/2013
Comments
                   Fully achieved. A broad investment program has been outlined, with financing plans
(incl. %
                   and longer term outcomes. This is now being implemented.
achievement)
                   A suggested investment program for the integrated development of natural gas
Indicator 3 :
                   production and power generation capacity.
Value
                              0%                    100%              100%                 100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved             09/30/2010              06/30/2012       06/30/2013           06/30/2013
Comments
                   Fully achieved. The INES recommends integrated investment programs which
(incl. %
                   Ministry of Oil and Ministry of Electricity fully intend to implement.
achievement)
                   A set of policies to integrate environmental and social considerations into energy sector
Indicator 4 :
                   development and investments.
Value
                              0%                    100%              100%                 100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved             09/30/2010              06/30/2012       06/30/2013           06/30/2013
Comments
                   Fully achieved. Environmental and Social issues and policies have been significantly
(incl. %
                   addressed in the Environmental and Social report.
achievement)
                   Program of institutional reforms needed to improve governance in the oil, gas and
Indicator 5 :
                   power sub-sectors.
Value
                              0%                    100%              100%                 100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved              09/30/2010             06/30/2012      06/30/2013            06/30/2013
Comments           Fully achieved. The INES contains a program of institutional reforms aimed at
(incl. %           improved governance in the oil and gas sector. The Government is moving ahead with
achievement)       EITI adoption as part of this program.
                   An appropriate set of recommendations for policy and institutional reforms to improve
Indicator 6 :
                   the performance of Iraq’s energy utilities.



                                                   8
Value
                                    0%.                   100%              100%                100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved                   09/30/2010             06/30/2012        06/30/2013            06/30/2013
Comments                 Fully achieved. The INES contains a series of policy and institutional reforms that
(incl. %                 would improve energy sector performance. The government has endorsed these
achievement)             recommendations for implementation.
Indicator 7:             A policy to ensure energy prices more closely reflect financial and economic costs.
Value
                                    0%                    100%              100%                100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved                   09/30/2010             06/30/2012         06/30/2013         06/30/2013
Comments
                         Fully achieved. Overall energy pricing policies have been adopted through the INES.
(incl. %
                         Sub-sector pricing studies are now underway for further analysis and definition.
achievement)
                         Power sector policies which properly integrate upstream planning of fuel sources and
Indicator 8 :            supply-side needs of the population

Value
                                    0%                    100%              100%                100%
(quantitative )
Date achieved                    09/30/2010             06/30/2012        06/30/2013            06/30/2013
Comments                 Fully achieved. The INES contains a program of power sector policies designed to
(incl. %                 promote the sustainable development of this sector. Planning of fuel for power and fuel
achievement)             for domestic consumption has been improved.
                         A policy providing concrete indications of the Government's program for development
Indicator 9 :
                         of oil production capacity, exports, and future exploration of new oil reserves.
Value
                                    0%                    100%              100%                100%
(quantitative)
Date achieved                    09/30/2010             06/30/2012       06/30/2013          06/30/2013
Comments                 Fully achieved. The INES contains recommendations on oil E&P. These
(incl. %                 recommendations have been endorsed and implementation is underway - production
achievement)             profiles have been adjusted along with contracts for production from the IOCs.

      G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                           Actual
                  Date ISR
       No.                                DO                         IP                Disbursements
                  Archived
                                                                                       (USD millions)
         1        12/22/2010        Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     1.60
         2        07/19/2011        Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     2.79
         3        08/02/2011    Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     3.62
         4        12/25/2012        Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     4.93
         5        07/09/2013        Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     6.48

      H. Restructuring (if any)

       Restructuring          Board       ISR Ratings at  Amount            Reason for Restructuring &
          Date(s)            Approved     Restructuring Disbursed at           Key Changes Made




                                                          9
             PDO Change              Restructuring
                          DO   IP       in USD
                                       millions
                                                     Amendment to the Trust Fund
                                                     Grant Agreement signed
                                                     between the Government of Iraq
                                                     and IDA for an additional
12/02/2010      No        S    S           1.60
                                                     financing in the amount of
                                                     USD1.9 million to increase total
                                                     IDA TF funding to USD6.9
                                                     million in total
                                                     One year extension of the
                                                     project closing date was
                                                     approved from June 30, 2012
                                                     until June 30, 2013 in order to
                                                     allow the Government of Iraq
06/06/2012      No        S    S           4.93      sufficient time to complete the
                                                     Final INES Report and
                                                     undertake comprehensive
                                                     internal consultation and then
                                                     wider dissemination of the
                                                     Report.
                                                     Reallocation of funds was
                                                     approved to be utilized for
                                                     additional consulting services to
                                                     support the dissemination of the
                                                     final report, and to support early
                                                     implementation of the report
06/06/2012      No        S    S           4.93
                                                     recommendations. The
                                                     proposed reallocation of this
                                                     funding (to Consulting
                                                     Services) allowed the
                                                     Government of Iraq to use the
                                                     funding for these purposes.




                                    10
I. Disbursement Profile




                          11
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Energy Sector

1.      In 2009, during the preparation of this Project, major challenges in the Iraqi
energy sector prevailed despite significant efforts to revitalize the sector after the
extensive damage caused by the conflict in 2003. Efforts to strengthen operations and
reconstitute physical infrastructure within the sector were only partially successful with
limited ability to deliver domestic energy supplies and generate reliable and adequate
export revenues. Reliable access to high-quality energy supplies was a widely recognized
enabling factor in economic development, and the long-running inability to provide such
supplies was seriously detrimental to the welfare of the Iraqi population. Additionally, as
crude oil exports represented 98 percent of total exports and oil revenues made up 96
percent of the total budget revenue (excluding grants), the ability to utilize Iraq’s natural
resources in a sustainable and equitable manner was essential to the future of the nation’s
economy.

2.      Iraq’s economic prospects depended largely on the appropriate development of its
oil and gas resources. Iraq has the third largest proven oil reserves in the world and very
large resources of natural gas. The economy was highly dependent on oil production,
which accounts for two thirds of the GDP. However, the country’s energy infrastructure
had suffered during almost three decades of political turmoil and war. Oil production was
substantially below its potential, refineries were unable to meet requirements for light
products, electricity supply was inadequate to meet demand, and large quantities of
natural gas were being flared. Along with infrastructure, capacity for energy sector
management and governance was also weakened.

3.     As a part of a recovery strategy, the Government took several measures to address
the immediate problems in the energy sector. However, it was recognized that these
measures could have more impact and be more sustainable if they had a stronger policy
and institutional framework.

4.     The main outstanding issues could be grouped as follows:
       (i) There was limited access to affordable, reliable energy sources for the
            domestic population and for the local industry. Despite the financial and
            programmatic attention afforded to the Iraqi energy sector by the
            Government, lack of energy supply remained a significant economic and
            social problem, of which cost was estimated USD40 billion per year.
       (ii) Success in increasing oil production and exports had been limited, with
            production recovering slowly over the previous few years, after a major
            setback in 2003 caused by the war. In 2009, Iraq’s production capacity
            remained far below its potential as production and was 2.5 mmbo/d (million
            barrels of oil per day). This was lower than the pre-war level of 2.6 mmbo/d




                                             12
      attained in 2000, and far below the record of over 3.5 mmbo/d achieved in
      1979.
(iii) Natural gas, as resource was historically neglected in Iraq. Large volumes of
      associated gas were being flared, due to inadequate gas pipeline and
      processing capacity and limited effective demand from power generation
      units. It was estimated that approximately 60 percent of gas production was
      being flared; making Iraq’s flaring the fourth largest in the world. Because
      associated gas was an unavoidable by-product of oil production, any solution
      to the flaring problem must have involved integrating oil development with
      gas infrastructure and power sector investment.
(iv) In the power sector, generation capacity lagged far behind demand. Capital
      investment, rehabilitation and increased focus on operations and maintenance
      resulted in average supply rising to roughly 6,000 MW in 2009 (60% of the
      demand). However, electricity demand continued to increase significantly
      and by some estimates had risen by more than 10 percent annually between
      2005 and 2008. The use of generation capacity was highly inefficient, with
      fuel oil replacing gas in many turbines, causing technical problems and a loss
      of value. Transmission and distribution systems remained highly unreliable
      total losses were estimated to be at least 30% (technical and non-technical).
(v) Iraq’s energy sector institutions were not managing the sector as effectively
      as they could. This was a consequence of the weak institutional structure. In
      oil and gas and in electricity, the respective ministries functioned as state
      monopolies that were responsible for all aspects of policy, regulation and
      operations. Restructuring institutions was a complex task, requiring careful
      analysis and execution. Energy sector institutions in Iraq had also been
      weakened by conflict and political events, and suffered from overall lack of
      capacity.
(vi) Environmental and social concerns in the energy sector remained secondary
      to the urgent operational and economic priorities. Many standard practices
      for containing the environmental impacts of oil production were invariably
      no longer implemented. Such neglect resulted in oil spills, inadequate
      handling of toxic materials, and improper disposal of production water.
      Flaring of rich (unprocessed) gas was also a significant local environmental
      problem, and contributed to global greenhouse gas emissions.
(vii) Water supplies remained a critical issue closely related to the energy sector,
      as increased demand from power generation facilities collided with already-
      strained water supplies for agriculture and communities. Low water levels in
      the Tigris and Euphrates had already resulted in reduced generation capacity
      and significant environmental and agricultural damage.
(viii) Improved energy efficiency was a top priority for Iraq, which had been
      isolated from many recent developments in energy technology and global
      policy and practices. The level of waste in the production and use of
      electricity and oil and gas was believed to be high. Global climate change
      policy considerations also needed to be taken into account.
(ix) Corruption and limited transparency within the Iraqi energy sector remained
      as persistent political issues in Iraq. A lack of sector-wide planning, unclear



                                     13
           lines of control, limited internal monitoring and metering of energy flows,
           and vulnerability of subsidized energy products to rent-seeking activities had
           all created an enabling environment for corruption. Inadequate metering of
           oil flows created uncertainties about amounts of oil produced processed and
           sold.
       (x) Rectifying Iraq’s energy sector problems required considerable investment.
           However, it was not clear how much investment would be needed to achieve
           specific objectives for the sector. Iraq risked running a budget deficit, and
           there was no surplus available for large investments in energy infrastructure.
           A more structured and integrated approach to sector policies needed to help
           the Government to assess the amount of financing required, and to use it
           effectively.

5.     To address these challenges, an Iraq Trust Fund (ITF1) grant was proposed to
finance the costs associated with the development of an Integrated National Energy
Strategy (INES) for Iraq, encompassing the oil, gas and power subsectors. The ITF
agreed to provide funding for the engagement of a high-quality strategic energy
consultant to work directly with the Government of Iraq to deliver this INES. Successful
completion of the Project and eventual implementation of the INES was to contribute to:
    a. Improvement in the sustainable management of Iraq’s natural resource wealth,
       both in the near-term and for future generations;
    b. Expanded access to reliable, high-quality energy for the Iraqi population;
    c. Increased coordination and cooperation between Iraq’s energy-related ministries:
       the Ministry of Oil, Ministry of Electricity, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
       Planning and Development Cooperation, Ministry of Industry and Minerals, and
       Ministry of Water Resources;
    d. Stabilization of the commercial and political environment of the Iraqi energy
       sector, resulting in increased access to lower cost financing and technology; and
    e. Creation of a common vision for the development of the energy sector, to which
       all sector stakeholders, could adhere.

6.      The energy sector development will require an investment of over USD500
billion between 2013 and 2030, and will provide Iraq up to USD6 trillion in revenues. In
the short term, the government will need to double the current rate of energy sector
capital expenditure to reach these figures, and to hence have an integrated national energy
strategy. Iraq’s current unemployment rate stands at 18%. If the energy sector
development is managed properly, 250,000 new energy sector jobs could be created, with
another 9 million indirect or induced jobs.



1
  The Project was financed by the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq’s (IRFFI)
sub-fund, ITF. IRFFI aimed to help donors channel resources and coordinate support for capacity
building, reconstruction, and development projects in Iraq in line with Iraq's priority program
through two trust funds: the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund, and the UN Development Group Trust
Fund.



                                              14
Rationale for Bank Assistance
7.    This Project was part of the Bank’s overall program of support to Iraq which
amounts to approximately USD1 billion of which about half was funded by the Iraq Trust
Fund and half from International Development Association (IDA).

8.      The Project was fully consistent with the Iraq Interim Strategy Note dated
February 19, 2009 (Report No. 47304-IQ). The three key themes of the Interim Strategy
Note (ISN) were all addressed within this project as follows: (i) Theme 1: Continuing to
support ongoing reconstruction and socio-economic recovery; (ii) Theme 2: Improving
the management of public resources, including human, natural and financial; (iii) Theme
3: Supporting Policies and Institutions that Promote Broad-Based, Private-Sector Led
Growth. The ISN specifically states the World Bank Group’s willingness to provide “on-
demand support to the oil and gas sector beyond revenue management issues”. The INES
addressed the Government’s demand for support in this area in order to improve the
prospects for investment in the energy sector, including private investment in certain sub-
sectors.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

9.      The Project’s development objective was to improve the ability of the
Government to develop an energy strategy that is designed to increase the contribution of
the sector to sustainable development. The primary outcome of the Project was the
production and dissemination of an INES, incorporating the analysis of the energy sector,
assessment of strategic options, and recommendations for key policies and actions to
review and implement the proposed strategy. The expected longer term outcomes
resulting from successful implementation of the INES are summarized in Paragraph 52.

10.     The Government of Iraq’s (GoI) has adopted the Implementation Plan produced
within the INES. Its execution will be a key factor in assessing the success of the Project
and achieving the desired outcomes. The Plan was to provide the blueprint for specific
policies and further actions required to improve the performance and prospects of the
energy sector. The Plan was to indicate priority areas for investment and the framework
for identifying specific projects.

11.    Results monitoring indicators are summarized in Annex 5.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

12.    The PDO and the key indicators have remained the same during the life of the
operation.




                                            15
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     The INESTA project, and resulting INES, is a response to requests from the GoI,
through the Prime Minister’s Advisory Commission (PMAC), a part of the Prime
Minister’s Office (PMO). While the implementing agency or contracting authority was
the Prime Minister’s Advisory Commission, the beneficiary of the grant was the
Government of Iraq. Indirectly, all line Ministries in the Iraqi energy Sector and the Iraqi
population were to benefit from a reformed and functioning energy sector. The Project
was implemented under the leadership of the PMAC, which hosted the Project
Management Team. All key ministries and agencies relevant to the work were engaged
through a Project Steering Committee (PSC) tasked with the preparation of an Energy
Strategy. The ultimate beneficiaries of INES and its recommendations are Iraqi citizens
in terms of improved service delivery, job creation and poverty reduction, and the private
sector through economic diversification, investment opportunities and energy sector
service delivery and sustainability.

1.5 Original Components

14.    The achievement of the project outcomes was to be supported through the
following two components: Component 1: Development of an Integrated National Energy
Strategy: Provision of technical assistance for the development of an integrated national
energy strategy for Iraq’s oil, gas and power sectors (the INES) and Component 2:
Project Management: Supporting the PMT in Project management, monitoring and
evaluation through provision of Training, consultant services, including Project audit, and
financing of Operating Costs.

1.6 Revised Components

15.    The project components remained the same throughout the project lifespan.

1.7 Other significant changes

16.     The Trust Fund Grant Agreement (in the amount of USD5 million) between the
GoI and IDA, acting as administrator of the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund was signed on
January 11, 2010. The GoI immediately entered into the bidding process and assessed
Booz and Company’s (an international strategy/energy consultant (the Consultant))
proposal as highest ranked bid. Given the higher cost of the Consultant’s financial offer
(US$8 million) and the difficulties in quickly securing public financial resources at that
time, both due to budget constraints and the likely delays in budgetary allocation at the
post-election process for the formation of a new government in Iraq, an official request
letter for an additional financing (in the amount of US$1.9 million) was sent by the
PMAC to the World Bank on March 15, 2010. In parallel, the GoI proceeded in
negotiations with the Consultant and signed a contract on July 1st, 2010. The World Bank
approved on December 2nd, 2010 the requested additional financing in order to allow the
GoI to cover the full cost of the required consultancy services, and the Trust Fund
Agreement was duly amended. GoI entered into a contract with the Consultant, aware



                                            16
that additional financing had not yet been approved and that it was liable for the
obligations under this contract in the event that additional financing was not approved.

17.     In June 2012, upon the GoI’s request, an extension of the Project Closing Date
was granted in order to (i) complete the Final Integrated National Energy Strategy Report
to the highest possible standard, and (ii) allow time for comprehensive consultation on
the INES, and early implementation of the INES. The Project Closing Date was therefore
extended one year, from June 30, 2012 up to June 30, 2013. The Government also
requested a reallocation of remaining uncommitted funds to consulting services to
support dissemination of the INES report and early implementation of its
recommendations. Almost USD500,000 of funding remained available to the Project (for
Operating and Miscellaneous Expenses). During the supervision mission in March 2012,
the PMAC had requested that this funding be utilized for additional consulting services to
support the dissemination of the final report, and to support early implementation of its
recommendations. The proposed reallocation of this funding (to Consulting Services) was
approved by the World Bank, recognizing the need for full ownership of the INES in the
Government through appropriate consultations in order to ensure the implementation of
the INES. Proceeds were therefore reallocated in June 2012.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Adequacy of Government’s Commitment
18.     As explained above, the PMAC was the owner and coordinator of the INES work
and hosted the assigned Project Management Team. The PMT led strong and professional
strategy dialogue and work coordination among the sector stakeholders. The Iraqi
authorities’ commitment to manage and reform the energy sector under an integrated
strategy was key to the success of this operation. Extensive consultations with the sector
stakeholders also helped identify priorities and build consensus among main players
providing a strong basis for implementation of the strategy.
Soundness of Background Analysis
19.     There was a strong rationale for the Bank’s intervention under this Project in line
with the GoI’s priorities for the energy sector, given (i) the importance of the energy
sector in Iraq; (ii) the need to support post-war priority reconstruction efforts; and (iii) the
lack of a master strategy and intensive coordination in the sector. Iraq’s economy has
been closely linked to its energy sector, especially oil. Iraq’s prosperity has highly
depended on a sustained revival of oil production and a prudent use of the wealth created
by the petroleum sector. The development of coordinated policies in the energy sector has
been a key part of the country’s recovery strategy. To deal with the energy sector
difficulties, Iraq needed both a short-term response to improve domestic energy supplies
and maintain oil export revenues, and a long-term coordinated effort to rebuild the energy
sector and its institutional foundations. The INESTA Project was primarily oriented
towards the latter endeavor, but was closely linked to the former. The strategy proposed
under this Project was to assess the situation of the energy sector, review options for
development towards a more efficient and sustainable future, and recommend specific


                                              17
policy actions and investment areas for implementation. Equally importantly, it was to
chart the direction for institutional reform and policy development in the long-term.

20.     The difficulty of implementing sector strategy and reform projects in post-conflict
countries based on previous experiences was duly acknowledged during project
preparation. Broader lessons learned from Bank’s experience in implementing projects in
similar countries were collected. These included (i) having a flexible and very concrete
project design to allow for adaptation to changing circumstances; (ii) taking care not to
propose reforms that were impractical in a context of low capacity and ongoing crisis
management; (iii) be ready to make adjustments midstream.

21.     Iraq presented additional challenges given the political conflict and the security
issues in the country; furthermore institutional weaknesses prevented an overly ambitious
project design. Travel to Iraq has been constrained by security considerations for both
staff and consultants while local capacity remained limited. The proposed Project was
therefore designed around a single contract, with utilization of local consultants where
possible and reliance on remote communications and coordination as far as was practical.
In order to ensure that the consultants meet GoI’s expectations, in-person consultations
were required on a regular basis. Security and travel costs were included in the cost
estimate for the Consultant’s services. The Project structure, based on a straight-forward
execution and delivery model for the INES, has thus helped minimize the risk of
disruption from outside events.
Assessment of the Operation’s Design
22.     The design of the operation was appropriate. The operation came as a response to
the request by the Government of Iraq to the World Bank for the establishment of a
national energy strategy for Iraq. The Project was designed to identify key priorities for
an integrated strategy in the energy sector. Since the 2003 war, Iraq’s energy sector had
been operating in a post-conflict crisis mode, where the overriding goals had become
meeting domestic energy demand and maintaining oil production by any means necessary.
Hence, there had emerged a widespread desire to restore and develop the energy sector in
a planned and sustainable manner, rather than operating it on an ad-hoc basis. Through
the formulation of the INES, and dissemination of the final deliverable (INES), the
Project was envisaged to provide a strategy designed to help move the energy sector out
of its crisis mode. The Government of Iraq showed its commitment to developing an
energy strategy through the appointment of the Steering Committee.

23.    As requested by the GoI, a budget of USD6.9 million was provided through the
Iraq Trust Fund to finance the costs and activities associated with the consultancy work.
The INES Project was fully consistent with OP 8.00 criteria 2 . This provided an
opportunity for action that needed to be structured promptly. The Project Development
Objectives of the Project were assessed for alignment with a number of the OP 8.00


2
 The Second ISN for Iraq stipulated the use of OP/BP 8.50 for all ITF-funded projects. OP/BP
8.00 (Rapid Response to Crisis and Emergencies), issued March 2007, has replaced OP/BP 8.50.



                                            18
objectives such as (i) rebuilding and restoring physical assets, (ii) restoring the means of
production and economic activities, (iii) preserving or restoring essential services, and
(iv) assisting with the crucial initial stages of building capacity for longer-term
reconstruction, disaster management, and risk reduction. Five dimensions of evaluation
have been defined which shape the strategic choices of the INES as (i) Energy Security,
(ii) Government Value Maximization, (iii) Economic Diversification, (iv) Employment
Generation, and (v) Environmental & Social Sustainability.

24.     In addition to USD6.9 million funding from the ITF, the Project benefited from a
co-financing of USD1.6 million from the Government of Iraq to cover the full project
cost in the amount of USD8.5 million.

25.     There was a minor shortcoming of project design with respect to the initial
assessment of the project cost and funding requirement. The funding for the Project had
been identified as USD5 million at design. Given the prevailing political and security
challenges in Iraq, all bids received for the consulting assignment (under international
competitive bidding) were beyond the initial estimates of the project, with the winning
bid proposing a lump sum of approximately USD8 million3. While the funding amount at
design was underestimated, this was considered to be a minor shortcoming, and did not
make the objectives or design inconsistent with the GoI and the Bank’s development
priorities for the Project. Additional funding was made available, and all planned
activities were successfully implemented, making this a minor shortcoming. The
achievements of the Project outcomes were not affected.
Relevance of Risks Identified
26.     At the time of appraisal, country-specific risks, as identified by the Iraq ISN,
included: the deterioration of the national security situation, weakening of Iraq’s
economy as a result of internal factors and/or international markets, fiduciary problems
resulting from weaknesses in the institutional environment, and project implementation
challenges flowing from all of the above. In addition, the overall lack of capacity and
coordination in the sector was identified as risk.

27.     The Project was designed to address these risks as follows:
           a) The physical security challenges in Iraq had been recognized to be severe,
               and subject to fluctuations. Therefore, consulting work was expected to be
               conducted mostly remotely, with local staff working in-country, and
               international consultants visiting Iraq on a limited basis to undertake
               specific research and consultations. Security for the international
               consultants was the responsibility of the Consultant. The firms expected to
               be interested in this work were large and experienced in consulting in
               difficult environments. Regular in-person meetings (every two months)


3
 Other projects developed in Iraq are also experiencing similar difficulties in correctly estimating
costs due to the specific conditions and the difficulty in attracting qualified companies in bidding
process.



                                                19
              were planned between senior staff from the Consultant, the PSC, and the
              PMT..
           b) There was the risk that the GoI’s interest in an INES could wane if oil
              prices were to rise considerably. The economic need for a strengthened
              energy sector was made apparent by the fall in international oil prices
              from their peaks in early-2009, and resulting pressure on the Iraqi
              economy. A rapid and very large increase in oil prices could weaken
              Government commitment to the Project, as increased oil and gas revenues
              reduce pressures to reform, and to improve the governance of the energy
              sector. However, the motivation of the Government was to primarily
              resolve significant problems that were apparent at any level of oil prices.
           c) The fiduciary risk was reduced as this was a relatively uncomplicated,
              single-contract Project, dealing solely with technical assistance. The Bank
              used its Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA) in Iraq to monitor applicable
              activities. Project monitoring was hence facilitated by the involvement in
              supervision of Bank staff based in Amman, Beirut and Baghdad.

28.     In addition to these general risks, the Project was expected to face a number of
specific risks, including (i) elections in Iraq that had been scheduled for early 2010; (ii)
reputational risk for the Bank; (iii) risk of lack of interest from high quality Consulting
firms for the Project; and (iv) excessive influence of the Project consultant over the
execution of the Project, possibly to the detriment of quality.

2.2 Implementation

29.    The political situation in Iraq throughout project implementation was fragile.
Presidential elections that had been due in the fall of 2007 were not held until May 2008.
As a result, a new interim government was formed, with its main mandate to prepare for
new parliamentary elections in June 2009. Subsequently the new government that was
formed in November 2009 remained in power until January 2011. Following this, a new
government took office in June 2011 and remained in place until the end of this Project.

30.    The Project was implemented under the leadership of the Prime Minister’s
Advisory Commission. All key ministries and agencies relevant to the work were
engaged. The GoI created a Steering Committee tasked with formulating the INES. This
Steering Committee acted as the Project Steering Committee for this Project. The PSC
worked with the support of the Consultant under this Project. The Committee was chaired
by the Head of the PMAC, and was composed of high-level representatives from the
PMAC, and from the Ministries of Oil, Electricity, Planning and Development
Cooperation, Industry and Minerals, Finance and Water Resources. A Project
Management Team was established within the PMAC, under the oversight of the Head of
the PMAC, to support the implementation of the Project.

31.   The Consultant was contracted by the GoI. Arrangements for project
implementation followed standard World Bank – IDA procedures for projects in Iraq.
The PMT, under the oversight of its Manager, was responsible for the procurement of



                                            20
services financed by the grant. A procurement officer was specifically recruited to the
PMT to work on steps required for procurement of the consultancy service, such as the
preparation and updating of the procurement plan, managing expressions of interest and
requests for proposals, evaluation of proposals, and contract award and management.

32.     From the beginning of the activity, the Prime Minister's Advisory Commission
demonstrated strong management of the project. The PMAC quickly established a
primary Project Management Team and Steering Committee for the Project, and
efficiently worked with the Bank in the preparation and procurement phases of the
project. The PMT consistently responded quickly and accurately to World Bank requests
for information and action.

33.     The Consultant supporting the Government in its development of the INES and as
planned submitted its First Interim Report on May 5th, 2011. The purpose of this First
Interim Report was to describe the challenges of the energy sector in Iraq and articulate
the strategic options which would be analyzed during the Formulation phase. The Project
Steering Committee, supported by the Bank team, met with the Consultant on April 7 – 8,
2011 to review a draft of the First Interim Report. The First Interim Report was also
distributed to all stakeholder Ministries, and presented to the Deputy Prime Minister for
Energy. The comments of the PSC, Ministries and the Bank were addressed by the
Consultant in the First Interim Report.

34.     The PSC continued its strong management of the Project during the operation and
built ownership for the INES within stakeholder Ministries. It was supported by the Bank
project team that closely monitored the performance of the Consultant, and met
frequently with the PMT, PSC and Consultant both in Baghdad and outside Iraq. This
work scheme also improved the Consultant’s performance (comments provided by both
the Government and the WB during the review of the Inception Report, and other interim
meetings’ results), and the quality of the First Interim Report was satisfactory at the
formulation stage of the Project in order to ensure that acceptable strategies were
developed.

35.     The Consultant submitted the INES Draft Final Report on December 9, 2011. The
Project Steering Committee met with the Consultant on December 14-16, 2011 to review
the Draft Final Report. The Draft Final Report was also distributed to all stakeholder
Ministries, and independent comments received from each of these Ministries. The
World Bank also provided the PSC with comments on the INES Draft Final Report. The
Consultant addressed all comments received in a revised Draft Final Report. In December
2012, the Consultant provided the Prime Minister's Advisory Commission with a Final
INES Report with appendices. PMAC distributed this report through the Project Steering
Committee to the various stakeholder ministries and Cabinet and Parliamentary
Committees. The INES was also translated into Arabic, and PMAC then focused on a
rigorous process of internal consultation around the INES prior to disseminating the Final
Report more widely. Although nearly all the official data made available pertains to
activities managed by the federal Government of Iraq, interviews conducted with several
senior officials of the Iraq Federal Region of Kurdistan provided insight into that region’s



                                            21
policies and plans as well. In order to complete this long and detailed consultation
process, the project closing date was extended to June 2013. The Bank recognized the
value in these extensive consultations in building ownership of the final INES. The merit
in these consultations was witnessed by the early commencement of implementation of
the INES.

36.     The PMT also facilitated the work of the Consultant, by providing logistical
support and liaison with GoI bodies. It was responsible for monitoring project
implementation, and for fiduciary issues. However, the PMT was not involved in
analytical and similar work in support of the Consultant’s work as specified in the ToR.
The PMT was initially comprised of three full-time dedicated staff. A project manager
managed the PMT and served as the key interlocutor for the Bank’s Task Team and the
Ministries of Oil, Electricity, Planning and Development Cooperation, Industry and
Minerals, Finance and Water Resources. The project manager was initially supported by
a Financial Officer (FO) and a Procurement Officer (PO). During the initial procurement
phase of the Project, the FO and PO managed the daily financial management (FM) and
procurement activities of the Project. However it was agreed that following the signing of
the contract with the strategic consulting firm, the FO and PO be retained on a part-time
basis. The work and functions of the FO and PO were carried out by qualified local
consultants, hired according to the World Bank’s Guidelines, and financed under the
Project.

37.     The project’s restructuring, which consisted of (i) one year extension of the
project closing date from June 30, 2012 until June 30, 2013 in order to allow the
Government of Iraq sufficient time to complete the Final INES Report and undertake
further comprehensive consultation and then wider dissemination of the Report and (ii)
reallocation of funds, helped to achieve the PDO and contributed to the full utilization of
funds4. Another factor that contributed to the smooth implementation of the Project was
having the Consultancy Task Team based in close proximity to Iraq, in Beirut and
Dubai/U.A.E.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

38.     The Project was implemented by PMT within PMAC. The PMT prepared reports
every two/three months on the work of the Consultant that were included with minutes of
the Consultant’s meetings with the PSC. The PMT also prepared standard quarterly
reports for the Bank on the overall progress of the Project and fiduciary matters.

39.    Supervision was directed by the Bank TTL. Support on all aspects of supervision
(procurement, financial management, fiduciary) were provided by the Bank staff based in
Amman, Beirut and Baghdad. The World Bank ITF engaged a Fiduciary Monitoring
Agent to help the Bank supervise project implementation. The FMA monitored the
physical implementation of the Project and compliance with the fiduciary policies of the
Bank. The FMA also provided technical assistance through on-the-job training to the


4
    The key elements of the restructuring are described in Section H above.


                                                 22
PMT on the Bank procurement and financial management procedures, and participated in
the supervision missions with the Bank and PMT.

40.     Supervision missions were conducted approximately bi-annually, and included
meetings with the PMT. The Bank’s Energy and Safeguard Specialists based in
Washington DC and Beirut visited the PMT in Baghdad on a regular basis. The Bank’s
approach to the Project needed to balance oversight, fiduciary duties and policy
engagement. This was to ensure that the eventual INES was fully supported and owned
by the Government. Given successful implementation and long consultation period on the
client side, the supervision missions were conducted annually in 2012 since most of the
work on the INES was complete.

41.    In addition to conducting bi-annual supervision mission, the Bank also convened
a team of energy sector experts and regularly supported the PSC through the review of
the Consultant’s reports for quality and timeliness, and for consistency with the Terms of
Reference. The Bank staff did not generally attend the regular meetings between the
Consultant and the PSC held every two/three months. However, the Bank staff aimed to
attend major presentations by the Consultant at key milestones, and also met with the
PMT and PSC in Baghdad every several months to review progress on the project.

42.     The outcome and intermediate indicators were overall clear, and their progress
was adequately reported in the implementation and status reports. Given the nature of the
activity and its strategically broad timeframe of 2013-2030, the longer term outcomes are
well described but also broad enough to capture the Project’s end-target strategy over
2030. The ICR should be read and considered taking into account the TA nature of the
activities.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

43.     The Project complied with the Bank’s financial management procedures and
requirements. PMT submitted interim un-audited and final audited financial reports to the
Bank on time. All implementation and status reports (ISR) have consistently rated FM as
satisfactory. The PMT was responsible for planning and coordinating all Project activities,
FM (payment authorization, disbursement, accounting, reporting and audit), procurement
of consulting services (and related contract management) from the private sector, and
monitoring and evaluation.

44.    The Project was first budgeted for USD5 million, and the TF Grant Agreement
was signed accordingly. Afterwards, an additional financing of USD1.9 million was
approved in December 2012. As of October 2013, the project disbursed almost 100% of
the USD6.9 million grant proceeds. The remaining undisbursed amount of USD23,250
was cancelled on October 31, 2013.

45.    The Project financed primarily the Strategic Consultant, with a small additional
contract for an External Auditor. Procurement subject to Bank tendering requirements
principally consisted of consultancy and training services, which were carried out in



                                           23
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines5. The procurement was adequately handled
by PMT that showed solid learning and implementation capacity with the WB
procurement guidelines. In addition, the reactions of the market to the expression of
interest were satisfactory, ensuring a high likelihood of a good value for money of the
INES study financed by the project. The overall procurement risk for the Project was
high, due to the overall situation in Iraq and the low capacity of the implementing agency
to implement procurement before the Project. As outlined above, the inherent challenges
in the Iraqi environment led to bid prices in excess of the original project budget,
however this variance was within expected limits for Iraq. The proceeds of the Grant
were disbursed through standard disbursement procedures, as outlined in the Bank’s
“Disbursement Guidelines for Projects,” by means of reimbursements and direct
payments.

46.     The operation relied on a PMT with a small number of full-time Iraqi staff. In the
case of this Project, the PMT proved to be a good solution ensuring smooth and effective
implementation of the Project. Therefore, the autonomous unit with a full-time dedicated
team was established for project management and implementation. The PMU received
assistance in capacity building with the other Iraq PMTs in procurement, financial,
disbursement, contract management, and anti-corruption to allow implementing the
project according to World Bank procedures.

47.     Safeguard policy in Iraq has been directed by the Environmental and Social
Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) (as revised in April 2006), which
prescribes special procedures to account for the continuing instability in the country. The
Project was designed to finance international and local advisory services as well as
limited information dissemination activities related to the final deliverable.

48.     The Project has been rated as a Category B technical assistance project, since the
energy sector in Iraq presents many high-profile and sensitive environmental and social
issues. In the Bank’s view it was important to give full coverage to these issues, and also
to provide some scope for public comment in these key areas. The Consultant produced a
stand-alone report on environmental and social issues in order to give the issues their due
weight. This report was presented to the PSC for approval. The approved version was
then sent for comment to a full range of knowledgeable civil society organizations,
government officials and academic institutions, at the time of the consultants’ Second
Interim Report. The PMT and PSC collected the comments with the support of the
consultant, and these were used to frame a final Report on Environmental and Social
Issues. This report contains a summary of comments received. The PMT and PSC
organized a workshop for Government and other stakeholders, to discuss the
Environmental and Social Report with the assistance of the Consultant. The PMT also
held a comprehensive consultation process for the Social and Environmental report –



5
 Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May
2004 and revised in October 2006.



                                            24
advertising it in national newspapers, discussing it at the launch of the full INES, and
inviting comments through an online posting of the report. The Ministry of Environment
was involved in the Project’s work on environmental and social issues.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

49.     This Project will have a real impact if the recommendations developed under the
INES Study to facilitate the restructuring and reform process of the Iraqi energy sector
are followed and the coordination and reform process are sustained in the medium and
long terms.

50.   This is likely to be the case, for a number of recommendations that are part of the
INES Study are already under implementation. Examples include the following:

   a) The Integrated National Energy Strategy was adopted by the Iraqi Council of
      Ministers on April 16, 2013. This was followed in May 2013 by an order issued
      by the Prime Minister to all ministries to follow the road map traced by the
      document in their planning and policies. This represented a key milestone in the
      Project to demonstrate the significant accomplishment, and the significant
      consensus that has been developed around key INES findings and
      recommendations.

   b) The INES was officially launched on June 12, 2013 as Iraq’s first long term
      energy strategy through a high level state event in Baghdad. It was a major
      stakeholder event, at which the PMAC disseminated the INES to academia, civil
      society organizations, media, the broader Iraqi population and international
      community. Most of the sector representatives presented their sector projections
      and projects on the basis of the INES analysis and recommendations. In addition,
      the INES Summary Report was translated into Arabic to ensure wide
      dissemination and understanding of its key findings and recommendations
      amongst Iraqi stakeholders.

   c) PMAC and the PMT have completed training of technical staff in the Integrated
      Energy Model (IEM), which was used to undertake ongoing strategic analysis.
      The Government of Iraq will need to continue analysis of strategic decisions and
      investments over time, with appropriate adjustment of these as conditions change.
      This required that Iraqi staff be trained in the Integrated Energy Model, which
      was developed by the Consultant, and through which most of the INES analysis
      was undertaken.

   d) The PMAC and the PMT have recently submitted the stand-alone Social and
      Environmental Report that has been developed for the INES for the Bank’s
      review and no-objection for official disclosure. Although it has taken some time
      for the PMT to complete this report, it now includes an annex outlining the
      comprehensive consultation process undertaken for the report.




                                           25
      e) In order to supervise the implementation of the INES recommendations, the
         Steering Committee, which was set-up to oversee/implement/develop/etc. the
         Project activities under INES, will remain active and continue reporting to PMAC.
         This task is conducted through the INES Program Management Office and INES
         Steering Committee to monitor progress against plan, and to identify priority
         areas where interventions need to be made to ensure successful plan execution.
         Regular progress reports submitted by the Project consultant to the PMAC are
         prepared on a quarterly basis. The success of the Project highly depends on
         regular monitoring of the decisions taken in line with INES recommendations.

      f) In line with the INES recommendations, an intensive dialogue is underway for
         potential projects with the World Bank. The Government and relevant line
         ministries are in the process of discussing and preparing potential TA and projects
         for World Bank support as identified in the INES. More specifically, the Ministry
         of Electricity has been working with the World Bank on an Electricity
         Distribution Sector Reform Roadmap6and Energy Efficiency Action Plan7. The
         World Bank is in discussions with the Ministry of Oil and PMAC for a natural gas
         sector Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS) activity (of which official request
         letter has been recently received from the GoI) and a Strategy for the Petroleum
         Distribution and Retail Sector respectively. So far, two studies have been already
         initiated with GGFR and an official Request Letter received for a RAS operation
         on gas with the World Bank. Exploring renewable energy potential through a
         more detailed strategy study is also being discussed as an area of further
         cooperation with the Ministry of Electricity. These initiatives are preliminary
         results of the INES, and can be attributed to the success of this Project and its
         recommendations.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
51.      The Project is a Technical Assistance for an “integrated national energy strategy”
(INES) to improve the ability of the Government to develop an energy strategy that is
designed to increase the contribution of the sector to sustainable development. Performed
activities consisted of (i) review, (ii) analysis, (iii) consultation, (iv) report drafting, (v)
training and (vi) support for the project management and dissemination. Final output of
the Project is the INES Report launched June 12, 2013.

52.    The longer term outcomes resulting from successful implementation of the INES,
include the following:
    a. Enhancement of the contribution of Iraq’s oil and gas resources to sustainable
       development;
    b. Strengthened integration between investments in different parts of the energy
       sector;


6
    Funded by the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF)
7
    Funded by the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP)


                                               26
   c. Contribution to mobilizing the funding necessary for the recovery and expansion
      of Iraq’s energy sector to meet future development needs;
   d. Improved access to financing on best terms for energy investments;
   e. Provision for full integration of environmental and social considerations into the
      energy sector;
   f. Strengthened institutions in the energy sector, including greater financial
      transparency of energy companies; and
   g. Support for sustainable development through efficient energy supply to all
      consumers, at prices reflecting financial and economic costs.

53.     As planned, the INES is currently being implemented to achieve the Project
outcomes as described below. First three layers of the Governance Structure in the chart
presented below have been already set up and indicated Task Forces are to be put in place
in the short to medium term.




3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Substantial

54.     The relevance of the Project objective to the current situation in Iraq is high. As
mentioned earlier, the main objective of the operation was to improve the ability of the
Government to develop an energy strategy that is designed to increase the contribution of
the sector to sustainable development. The design of the operation was well aligned with
the country’s priorities and World Bank strategies. The operation was also designed in a
truly participatory way through frequent meetings with all key energy sector stakeholders,
which ensured ownership and commitment.

55.    The objectives continue to be relevant at ICR preparation. Following (i) the
adoption of the INES by the Iraqi Council of Ministers in April 2013 and (ii)


                                           27
dissemination of the Final Report, the Government has taken steps to implement a
number of key recommendations contained within the INES, particularly with respect to
determination of oil production profiles, working towards the capture and processing of
flared gas, overall improvement of its gas sector operations, and infrastructure
development in the power sector.

56.     At its completion stage, the Project is still in line with the sector priorities and
projections. The Country Partnership Strategy: 2013-2016 (Report No. 73265) for Iraq
includes energy sector as an explicit priority for economic growth and infrastructure
development in Iraq. In its second National Development Plan: 2014-2017 8 the
Government identified energy and related areas as top priority in which reform and
investment actions would produce tangible results.

57.     The design and implementation of the project have been shown to be substantially
relevant. The two components were an adequate comprehensive support to the
Government of Iraq/PMAC in the implementation of the necessary sector strategy. The
minor shortcoming was that the original financing amount was not enough to cover the
cost of the consultancy work, and an additional financing was granted.

58.     Based on a highly relevant objective, and substantially relevant design and
implementation, the relevance of the objective, design and implementation of the project
is rated as Substantial.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

59.     The Project’s development objective was to improve the ability of the
Government to develop an energy strategy that is designed to increase the contribution of
the sector to sustainable development. As a technical assistance, this project delivered an
integrated energy strategy study with appendices that contributed to achieve the Project’s
outcomes as well as the PDO indicators. This was done through the Project’s two
components as follows:
    a) Component 1: Development of an Integrated National Energy Strategy: provision
        of technical assistance for the development of an integrated national energy
        strategy for Iraq’s oil, gas and power sectors (the INES), including:
           i. Review of the key energy sector characteristics,
          ii. Review of energy strategy experience in other countries with similar
                economic circumstances,
         iii. Analysis of Iraq’s strategic options for energy sector development,
                including institutional and regulatory structure and framework for priority
                investments,




8
    Launched by the Ministry of Planning of Iraq on September 16, 2013



                                                28
        iv.  Review of key environmental and social policy issues relevant to the
             energy sector and development of key strategic recommendations on how
             to address these issues,
         v.  Assessment of Iraq’s energy equipment supply and services industries,
             their potential and needs for capacity building,
        vi. Development of an implementation plan for the INES,
       vii. Dissemination and publication of the INES, including the review of
             environmental and social issues.
   b) Component 2: Project Management: supporting the PMT in Project management,
      monitoring and evaluation through provision of training, consultant services,
      including project audit, and financing of operating costs.

60.     The Consultant and the Bank team significantly influenced the Government’s
ability to develop energy strategy, and have imparted a legacy of strategic planning and
decision making within the Iraqi institutions involved in the INES preparation. Although
the consultant also contributed directly to analysis and strategic recommendations this is
to be expected even with a high capacity government leading strategic development. The
PDO was significantly met through the development of the Government’s own capacity
to lead the development of energy strategy and set up an effective coordination with other
stakeholders and line-Ministries. This structure, including PMT is being maintained to
also steer the implementation process. By the conclusion of the INES the Government
had been trained in the use of the Integrated Energy Model that was used to undertake
strategy analysis, and had full control of strategic decision making and final strategic
recommendations.

61.     The INES was envisaged to be a comprehensive and detailed strategy for the
whole of the energy sector. It was to provide an overall decision-making framework for
energy policies, institutional development and investments. It was also to highlight
investment priorities and identify key investments required within the strategy. However,
the INES was not intended to be a complete technical and investment plan for energy
development; rather, it was to provide the detailed policy, institutional and strategic
framework for review and discussion within the Government and among stakeholders on
a rigorous basis upon which policies and investments can be designed and implemented,
in a fully coordinated manner. To this effect, the World Bank operation achieved these
through the implementation of the project components: (i) development of an “Integrated
National Energy Strategy” and (ii) supporting the Project Management Team (PMT) in
project management.

62.    The World Bank provided the funding and independent quality control needed by
the GoI to procure the high-quality consultants needed to formulate this INES.
Commissioning of highly qualified international consultants to develop the INES was
necessary to reinforce inadequate capacity in the country, to address the importance and
magnitude of the Iraqi energy sector, and to provide the necessary independent and global
perspective.




                                           29
63.     The INES has been assessed by a multi-disciplined Bank team at a number of
stages of its development, and has been found to be of a high quality. The team
recognized that the INES sets ambitious targets for the Government of Iraq, but ones that
the Government should strive to achieve in order to maximize the contribution of Iraq’s
energy sector to Iraq’s socio-economic development. Achievement of INES targets and
outcomes will be challenging, and the implementation of the INES will need to proceed
as quickly as possible, and be managed rigorously by the Government of Iraq,
particularly in the first several years of implementation. The PMAC and the INES
Steering Committee have therefore worked effectively within Government to ensure that
the INES is more than a study, but will represent the first step in an ongoing strategic
process that seeks to maximize the energy sector’s contribution to Iraq’s socio-economic
development.

64.     The PDO has been satisfactorily achieved through the full completion of
Components I and II through good quality of the strategy, smooth working of the
consultant, excellent coordination of the PMT making the results owned by a multitude of
sector stakeholders, etc. This has been evident in progress regarding adoption of the
INES by the Council of Ministers as official strategy and the use of the INES as reference
for potential sector reform and projects. As described in the ICR Data Sheet above, the
PDO and Intermediate Indicators are all 100% achieved, and institutional reforms are
being discussed and designed. In the long term, significant long-term efforts are needed
to be undertaken to raise the level of strategic management in the Iraqi energy sector.
Based on the satisfactory achievement of the PDO, the overall achievement of the project
objective is rated as substantial.

65.     The increased ability of the Government to strategically manage the sector is
evident in the steps taken since the approval if the INES (see Paragraph 50 for details of
the steps taken).

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

66.     The INES activity is unique and a first in its kind for Iraq. Some of the potential
economic and fiscal impacts that could emanate from this INES can be enumerated as
follows. The economic impacts identified at appraisal included increase of oil revenues,
evaluation of unused resources such as natural gas, lower consumption of electricity
through efficiency, reduction of economic production lost, reduction of power thefts and
creation of wealth for Iraqi population.. The fiscal benefits are to be measured in terms of
reduced need for Government subsidies and increase of Government revenues.An
investment of over USD500 billion between 2013 and 2030 is expected to provide up to
USD6 trillion in revenues and 250,000 new energy sector jobs could be created, with
another 9 million indirect or induced jobs. If the Government of Iraq fully implements
this strategy and achieves these results, the value for the funds allocated and spent is
highly justified.




                                            30
67.     The bidding process was smoothly completed, and the value for money spent was
satisfactory given the size and specific conditions of Iraq. Other less complex consulting
assignments have required similar resources, and given the size and complexity of this
assignment (covering multiple Ministries and sub-sectors), its importance in establishing
the future of Iraq’s most significant economic sector, and the significant additional
support provided by the Consultant in establishing Iraqi ownership in outcomes, the
Project is deemed to have returned satisfactory value for money comparative to other TA
in Iraq. Bids were received from five well recognized international consultants under an
international competitive bidding process. After evaluating all proposals per World Bank
guidelines for selection and employment of consultants, the Government of Iraq
negotiated a contract with the firm that achieved the highest combined technical and
financial score. This firm proposed an offer of USD8.0 million, which is USD3.5 million
more than originally, budgeted under initial project financing. In order to meet this
financing gap the Government of Iraq contributed USD1.6 million in co-finance, and has
requested that the balance of USD1.9 million be financed through additional financing
from the ITF.

68.     Since this project was a technical assistance, another way to assess its efficiency
is to look at the quality of the financial management and procurement process of its
consultancy contract. The project’s FM arrangements were consistently found to be
“Satisfactory". The Project implementation was managed by a PMT established within
the PMAC and financed by the Grant for a one-service contract, which contributed to the
success of the Project. Despite the difference between the estimated project cost of
USD6.5 million at design and the result of the bid cost of US8.5 million, efficiency was
still good value for money given quality of the delivered work. Main reasons for this
difference were substantial cost of security related arrangements and operational cost of
the detailed consultation process among the Iraqi energy sector stakeholders. More than
150 interviews were made with the energy sector stakeholders in Iraq, including KRG.
No explicit economic or financial analysis was conducted during project preparation,
which is understandable given the technical assistance nature of the project.

69.     Given the facts that important economic benefits of the project are very likely to
be realized and that the procurement and FM of the study of this technical assistance
Project were efficient, the efficiency of the Project is rated as substantial..

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

70.     The overall outcome rating for the Project is satisfactory as a result of combining
the ratings of its relevance, achievements, and efficiency, which are all rated substantial
based on meeting its key development objectives.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




                                            31
71.     This Project was a part of the Bank’s overall program which included projects for
Iraq’s socio-economic recovery to build schools and health clinics, provide text books
and pharmaceuticals, improve social safety nets, water supply and sanitation, irrigation
and drainage, roads, electricity, environmental management, private sector development,
and banking and public finance management reform efforts. The ITF also financed
technical assistance to help strengthen Iraqi institutions, develop baseline poverty data,
and improve social safety net targeting mechanisms.

72.     It is key to consider that the Iraqi energy sector takes the biggest part in GDP and
government revenues. A well-developed energy sector is of great importance to the
ability of the other sectors of the economy to grow, thus contributing to poverty reduction.
The energy sector can also contribute to GDP growth in its own right, as source of high
value employment, and stimulating the development of high level expertise.

73.     The management of the environmental and social impact of energy sector
operations has deteriorated in Iraq in the past two decades. Oil production operations, gas
flaring and power generation all have significant damaging local effects. Greater
regulation and control of these aspects of the energy sector is urgently required. To
address these, at the Project outcome and output levels, the Social impact analysis is a
part of the final INES Report. In view of the importance of social issues related to energy
sector, stakeholders, including civil society organizations, had the opportunity to
comment on a draft of the Report on Environmental and Social Issues.

74.    Despite the evident impacts that a better functioning energy sector would have on
gender issues, they were not assessed at project appraisal or in the ICR as the design of
the Project is considered to be gender-neutral.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

75.     The institutional change and strengthening is a core area for this INES activity.
Iraq’s energy sector institutions do not manage the sector as effectively as possible. This
is a consequence of the existing institutional structure. Iraq’s recovery strategy depends
highly on the rehabilitation of existing energy infrastructure as well as a coordinated
effort to strengthen the institutional framework in its energy sector. As indicated above,
the INES developed under this Project was to assess the current situation of the energy
sector, review options for development towards a more efficient and sustainable future,
and recommend specific policy actions and investment areas for implementation. Equally
importantly, it will chart the direction for institutional reform and policy development to
establish a sustainable management capacity within the GoI over the long term. This
aspect was reflected in the Project components, outcomes and outputs. In this regard, the
INES provided detailed analysis and recommendations on the institutional change and
strengthening.

76.    The activity has brought specific technical expertise on the institutional
development and provided trainings. The Government of Iraq’s recent actions on
maintaining the INES monitoring structure is a first step to implement the related INES



                                            32
recommendations. Hence the impact on long-term capacity and institutional development
will be significant. In the short term, the Government of Iraq has immediately taken some
actions such as revisions of projections, preparation of potential projects, etc. The steps
taken by the Iraqi Government in a very short timeframe, right after the activity
completion in June 2013, and the number of the potential projects identified by the Word
Bank since then are preliminary positive indicators of the satisfactory performance of the
INES activity.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

77.    Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

78.     As mentioned earlier, at the time of appraisal, the Project was subject to
substantial risks that could hinder the effective implementation of the INES work and the
timely disbursement of the grant. These risks included physical security challenges,
weakening government commitment and fiduciary and procurement risks. Also, the
overall operating environment in Iraq does not favor a strong implementation and
procurement performance. Despite these risks, the INES work was smoothly completed
with minimum negative impact. These conditions are expected to remain unchanged in
the short to medium term in Iraq. The Government/PMAC’s proven track record to deal
with these risks is good and increases the likelihood of successful implementation of the
INES recommendations. For instance, the INES has been endorsed by the Council of
Ministers and an order has been given to line-Ministries to consider the INES as official
strategy.

79.     However, given the inherently political nature of the above and the difficulty to
have clear mitigation measures against them, the risk to development outcome is deemed
to be substantial.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

80.     The Bank’s performance is rated as satisfactory, for the following reasons: (i) the
rationale for the Project was clear, its goals were in the line with the GoI and Bank
priorities, (ii) the project team paid particular attention to ensuring high quality at entry
for this operation; (iii) sound preparatory work, strong policy dialogue, good working
relationships with government counterparts, high level of consultation with sector
stakeholders, (iv) Bank expertise led to the design of this operation; and (v) close



                                             33
coordination with the Project consultant, which helped the counterpart to build the
necessary capacity to implement the project.

81.     The shortcoming of the estimated original Project cost had only a minor impact
on the Project implementation and the WB performance during identification, preparation
and appraisal of the Project is rated satisfactory. It was difficult to establish the project
cost given the security situation and specific country context. The fact that the cost
estimations had to be revised should thus not be seen as a reflection of poor design or
insufficient background work by the Bank at the design and preparation stages.

82.    As a result of its engagement in the Iraqi energy sector, the Bank has been in
close cooperation to develop new projects such as Electricity Distribution Sector Reform
funded by PPIAF, Energy Efficiency Action Plan funded by ESMAP, RAS discussions
on the Iraqi natural gas sector, etc. in line with the INES recommendations. The Bank
played a key role in raising the focus on the development and utilization of the natural
gas resource as main the main fuel for the reconstruction and development of Iraq.
Therefore, the GoI has recently sent an official request letter for a RAS operation for Gas
with the Bank initiated a GGFR study on the gas price for petrochemicals.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

83.    The Bank supervisory performance is rated as satisfactory: (i) the supervision
mission’s team composition was balanced; (ii) reporting by Aide Memoires and
Implementation Status Report was done regularly; (iii) the restructuring of the Project
and the amendment of the TF Grant Agreement were successfully managed; and (iv) a
strong dialogue with the GoI accompanied the full lifespan of the project was ensured.

84.     The supervision missions have gone beyond the regular oversight of the project
implementation, and provided support and guidance to the PMAC/PMT. These missions
provided sound and timely advice to the counterparts. The supervision provided a crucial
channel through which the World Bank team was able to continue to support and advise
the government on the next steps. Further, these supervision missions were supported by
regular reviews of the Consultants work by the Bank team, and regular progress meetings
with the PMT in Baghdad and elsewhere. Given the successful implementation of the
Project and the long stake-holder consultation process on the client side, the Bank Project
Team and PMT agreed to conduct one supervision mission in 2012, instead of two. This
was also due to the nature of the consultation activities, which were intensive during that
period and the Bank’s involvement was not needed.

85.     Lessons can also be learnt from the Bank’s supervision of this Project. The Bank
fostered full ownership of the strategy within Government from the outset – insisting
upon a Steering Committee with senior representation from each stakeholder Ministry;
supporting review meetings but ensuring that these were Chaired by Government
officials; supporting dialogue between the Steering Committee and other senior decision
makers within the Iraq Government (in particular the Deputy Prime Minister for Energy



                                             34
Affairs) through independent meetings and discussion; and, by allowing due time for
internal consultation to allow ownership to develop fully (through project restructuring
and extension of the project closing date).

86.     A minor inconsistency on the number and wording of the intermediate indicators
as reflected in PAD and ISRs was detected. Since this shortcoming is considered to be
minor, the Bank’s supervision quality is rated as satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

87.     The ICR rates the overall performance of the World Bank as satisfactory. The
rating of satisfactory is based on the following considerations: (i) the Project was well
designed, its PDO was in line with the Country’s and the Bank’s priorities, the
intermediate indicators were relevant and, helped focus the supervision; (ii) the Bank was
aware of the challenges involved in addressing the Iraqi energy sector and mitigating
risks (iii) the Bank established efficient relationship as “partner” with the Project
counterparts, who remained committed to the project design, implementation and
supervision; (iv) the Bank project team and the country office developed a high level of
cooperation with the sector stakeholders that played a key role in the success of the
operation; and (v) the Bank played a key role in support to the GoI for the supervision of
the Project consultant.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

88.     The GoI showed its commitment to improve the sector. The authorities remained
focused on the success of the energy sector strategy as they recognized its important
contribution to the economic growth and improving living standards of Iraqi citizens. The
Bank was requested to play a lead role and succeeded in providing an integrated strategy.
Upon completion of the final INES report, the Council of Ministers has approved the
strategy as official document and ordered the authorities to consider it as official energy
strategy of Iraq. The coordination among various Ministries has been obviously improved
through design and implementation phases of INES. Key line-Ministries such as
Ministries of Oil and Electricity have coordinated their efforts to develop common
projections, especially on fuel feedstock and delivery.

89.     The Government of Iraq has gained and demonstrated the ability to develop such
a detailed and integrated strategy and to work with an international consultant. During the
implementation of INES, the Government’s high-level quality of work and analysis
capacity were obvious and at international standards. The Consultant played a facilitator
role for analysis and brought methodology to assess current situation of the energy sector
and formulate recommendations. In this regard, PDO has been fully achieved as the




                                            35
ability of the Government to develop an energy strategy designed to increase the
contribution of the sector to sustainable development has been improved through INES.

90.     In addition to the organized capacity building/training activities provided to the
PMT/PMAC, the Government has gained the competence of strategic and long term
thinking, especially with hands-on-trainings, and acting accordingly. Given the recently-
initiated projects with the World Bank proves the existence of this approach in line with
INES recommendations. Current evaluation and monitoring framework, which has been
implemented through quarterly-prepared Progress Reports, is also another sign of
capacity gained.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

91.     The PMT has been established within the PMAC. From the design to supervision
stage, PMT/PMAC was extremely committed for the success of the Project. The launch
event of the INES was a big success given the high-level participation of the Iraqi energy
sector stakeholders including H.E Deputy Prime Minister for Energy Affairs, Hussein Al-
Shahristani, distinctive members of the Iraqi Parliament, and representatives of relevant
ministries, state agencies, diplomatic missions and private sector. In addition, the
PMT/PMAC has started establishing a permanent mechanism to supervise the
implementation of the INES recommendations and report its performance. During the
activity design, implementation and supervision, the PMT/PMAC facilitated the Bank
and Consultant’s works and successfully piloted the coordination among three parties:
GoI, Consultant and World Bank. The management of the consultancy service contract
was also highly satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

92.     The ICR rates the overall performance of the Borrower as highly satisfactory. In
line with the harmonized criteria for ICR and IEG evaluations, the satisfactory rating is
given successful completion of the INES report and immediate actions of the GoI for its
implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

93.    . Given its success and quality, the Project is a good example of a balanced
approach between international standards and realism taking into account Iraq’s
particular environment. This pragmatic approach was based on the balance between
PDO and allocated resources in terms of funding, timeframe and implementation bodies.

94.     The Bank’s experience of implementing projects in post-conflict countries
has highlighted the importance of simple and flexible project design. As a post-
conflict country, Iraq has presented additional challenges due to the security situation;
furthermore institutional weaknesses demand that project design not be overly complex.


                                           36
The Project was designed around a single contract, with utilization of local consultants
where possible and reliance on remote communications and coordination as far as is
practical. In order to ensure that the consultants meet GoI expectations in-person
consultations were required on a regular basis, and security and travel costs were
included in the cost estimate for the Consultant’s services. The Project structure, based on
a straight-forward execution and delivery model for the INES, has helped to minimize the
risk of disruption from outside events.

95.     Project Design to support policy dialogue. The Project was carefully designed
so that policy issues being discussed with the Government at the commencement of
engagement would be explored fully. The Bank had already been promoting the energy
sector’s capacity to go beyond revenue generation through oil export, and to spur
economic diversification and jobs growth within Iraq. The project was designed to bring
attention to these issues. As a result of the Project’s design, which called for a strategy
that not only maximized energy sector revenues, but that was also assessed according to
the levels of economic diversification, jobs growth, energy security, and environmental
sustainability that it brought, Iraq Government Policy now considers all of these elements
in addressing energy sector development.

96.     As a criterion for Bank support, strong interest and political commitment
increase client’s ownership and quality of delivery. The close working relationship
with the Iraqi authorities and implementing entities demonstrated that significant
decisions and changes were made, backed by a strong leadership and political
commitment. It was key that the PMT and Iraqi counterparts were always available to the
missions and consultancy works, and that there was an opportunity to work at a more
technical level with the sector stakeholders. These factors have contributed to make real
progress in the Project and to provide more immediate technical assistance to the Iraqi
sector stakeholders. However, the experience of the Bank projects in Iraq has shown that
account needs to be taken of the lack of capacity in some areas. The implementation of
the Project by the PMAC, a high-level group specializing in policy work, helped to
overcome this problem. As a result of a long and fruitful partnership with the Iraqi
stakeholders, the Bank has succeed in identifying “champions for strategy” within the
GoI and developing a pipeline of potential cooperation areas such as electricity sector
reform, energy efficiency, natural gas, petroleum products distribution, renewables, etc.
Currently, an intensive dialog is still underway with Iraqi counterparts. For instance,
more than 150 interviews were made with the sector stakeholders in Iraq, including KRG.
The GoI provided a co-financing of USD1.6 million to the activity. In this regard, the
activity is unique and first in this kind for Iraq.

97.     Pursue a strategic process rather than a strategic document to establish the
basis for strong implementation. Significant support was given to the process of
developing the INES through the cross-ministerial Steering Committee and significant
internal consultation. The focus of the INES stakeholders was on a strategic process and
discussion, rather than the development of a strategy document. This approach was
fostered through a mature relationship between the Government of Iraq, the Consultant
and the Bank team. By maintaining a focus on a strategic process, allowing sufficient



                                            37
time and rigor for internal consultations on the INES development and by supporting
these with continued communication with key decision makers, the stakeholders in the
INES development created a strong basis for implementation and ongoing refinement of
strategy recommendations. As a result of this focus, internal decisions were made, and
INES recommendations were being implemented even prior to the final release of the
INES document.

98.     The Project consultant was based in Beirut and Dubai/U.A.E, and had strong
Arabic speaking expertise. The consultant’s geographical vicinity to Iraq is an
advantage for a better understanding of local context and domestic issues in order
to provide realistic solutions. Despite the fact that travel to Iraq has been constrained by
security considerations for both the Bank staff and the consultants, the geographical
proximity has improved the efficiency of the work and the operational process. The
consultant also successfully used local consultants and staff for data collection, liaison
and project logistical arrangements, increasing the efficiency of its inputs.

99.     Design, implementation and supervision in a conflict environment are costly.
As reflected with the only shortcoming of the Project, which was higher cost of the
consultancy services compared to the expectations at design, it has resulted in an increase
of the ITF financing need. Hence, in such an environment it is important that the Bank
should be selective and flexible on budgeting and contracting.

100. The importance of strong coordination across multiple ministries and sub-
sectors is critical to achieve targets and ensure sustainability of implementation.
PMAC has played a key and pioneering role within the Government to bring together
different, even conflicting, interests around the INES. Continuity of this scheme of
engagement is necessary for implementation as well.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies
101. Comments concerning the Project implementation and results were received from
the PMAC/PMT and are gratefully acknowledged by the Bank team. The operation was
implemented with close coordination and day-to-day support. Given the nature of the
activity, the coordination among the sector stakeholders and the intensive data collection
and consultation process (more than 150 interviews with government officials in the Iraq
federal government, with several senior officials of the Iraq Federal Region of Kurdistan,
with officials in Iraqi State-Owned Enterprises, with executives of international oil
companies and oil service companies involved in Iraq, and with numerous technical
consultants engaged in Iraq’s development plans) were challenging for the PMT. In order
to complete this long and detailed process, the project closing date was extended to June
2013. The GoI and PMAC were appreciative of the support and technical and operational
guidance provided by the World Bank. The authorities rated the World Bank's
performance during the operation as overall satisfactory.
.




                                            38
      Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                              Percentage of
              Components                   Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD
                                                                               Appraisal
                                              millions)         millions)
Component 1: Development of an
                                                   4.50             7.90          +85%
Integrated National Energy Strategy
Component 2: Project Management
(including operations, audit, capacity             1.75             0.60           n.a9
building, etc.)
Contingency                                        0.25                             n.a
                Total Financing Required           6.50             8.50

       (b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
             Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing      (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                           millions)   millions)
                  ITF                                        5.00        6.90       +38%
                Borrower                                     1.50        1.60        +6%
                                                                                      n.a
                 TOTAL                                       6.50        8.50




      9
        Most of the Project Management Costs (Component 2) are covered by Component 1, included
      into the increase of 85%, at the implementation stage.



                                                  39
Annex 2: Executive Summary of the INES Report

The INES report recommends an Integrated National Energy Strategy (INES) for Iraq. It
defines a vision for Iraq’s energy future, assesses the energy resources available to Iraq,
and considers options for deploying those resources. On that basis it proposes a long-term
plan of investment, infrastructure development, and institutional reform.

The report covers a time span extending to the year 2030. It includes all the major
components of Iraq’s energy sector: upstream and downstream oil, natural gas, power,
and linked industries. It takes an integrated perspective toward these subsectors,
analyzing their interactions with each other and assessing strategic alternatives in terms
of their impact on the sector as a whole rather than on any single subsector. Additionally,
the report considers not only the energy sector’s internal economic dynamics but also its
broader socio-economic and environmental context.

Iraq’s overall economy is closely linked to the performance of its energy sector. Both
have suffered from forty years of intermittent warfare and international sanctions. Iraq
today has oil and gas reserves that rank among the world’s largest, yet the infrastructure
needed to take advantage of these resources is in disrepair, industries that depend on
these resources are virtually non-existent, and Iraq’s electric power system is chronically
unable to meet demand.

The aim of the INES is to define a plan that will reverse this deterioration and develop
Iraq’s energy resources to their full potential. This aim is reflected in the INES vision
statement.


    “Develop the Energy sector in a coherent, sustainable and environment-friendly
    manner to meet domestic energy needs, foster the growth of a diversified national
     economy, improve the standard of living of Iraqi citizens, create employment,
      and position Iraq as a major player in regional and global energy markets”


From this vision statement, five dimensions of evaluation have been defined which shape
the strategic choices of INES.

The program of investments and reforms set forth in INES provides major gains on all
these dimensions and lays a foundation for future national prosperity. Accomplishing this
program, however, will require purposeful and coordinated government action and
institutional commitment.

In particular:
   i. INES requires immediate infrastructure development across all energy subsectors:
        oil (upstream and downstream), gas, power, and industry. Development must be
        rapid, but also balanced. These subsectors are interdependent. Each depends for
        its own advancement on advances in the others. They need to evolve in parallel.



                                            40
  ii.   The delivery of INES benefits cannot begin until the basic infrastructure for all of
        these subsectors is in place. The next three years of infrastructure development
        are critical to the success of INES. Once effective linkages have been established
        among the various energy subsectors, enormous benefits will begin flowing to the
        people of Iraq. On the other hand, breakdowns in those linkages will create supply
        bottlenecks that waste time, resources, and opportunity.

 iii.   In order to accomplish the ambitious short-term INES infrastructure program,
        Iraq’s energy-sector Ministries will need to focus intensely on specific critical
        tasks. These tasks are enumerated in the INES.

 iv.    Rapid, sustained, and balanced growth in the medium- and long-term phases of
        INES will require fundamental institutional reforms. Energy-sector Ministries will
        need to reorganize. They also will need to establish regulations, programs, and
        institutions that encourage private-sector participation in the energy sector.
        International investment needs to be encouraged in order to introduce world-class
        standards of technology, performance, and transparency. Local private investment
        needs to be encouraged in order to build domestic skills and entrepreneurship and
        to diversify economic development.

  v.    Along with managing large and immediate growth in infrastructure, Iraq’s
        Ministries also will need to foster rapid growth in institutional capabilities. In
        particular, they will need to employ a variety of tools to stem and to reverse the
        flight of talent from Iraq, and to build professional capabilities in such areas as
        accounting, engineering, planning, contracting, law, and general management.

 vi.    Implementation of INES will require a strong INES governance mechanism that
        sets benchmarks, monitors progress, addresses obstacles, adapts plans to new
        circumstances, and ensures continual coordination among Ministries. Such a
        response system of governance and coordination will mitigate the downside risk
        of not achieving the full benefits of INES by minimizing slippages and under-
        performance. Iraq is endowed with great resource wealth. Its challenge is to
        unlock that wealth through a coordinated plan of development, managed through
        capable institutions. INES sets forth a strategy for meeting that challenge.

Iraq is endowed with great resource wealth. Its challenge is to unlock that wealth through
a coordinated plan of development, managed through capable institutions. INES sets
forth a strategy for meeting that challenge.

INES Investment Requirements and Results

The development program recommended by INES will require capital and operating
expenditures of approximately $620 billion ($530 billion as capital expenditures and $90
billion as operating expenses), in 2011 dollars between 2012 and 2030, including all
contracted payments to TSC operators. Of this total figure, it is assumed that about 15




                                            41
percent will be available from private investments, primarily in refineries and linked
industries.

Approximately 60 percent of projected INES expenditures by the Government of Iraq
will go toward the production and evacuation of crude oil, and much of that amount will
consist of reimbursements to the MoO’s TSC operators. 15 percent of expenditures will
go toward the production and handling of natural gas, and another 15 percent toward the
renovation and expansion of the national power system.

Over the period covered by INES, the revenue to the government generated by these
expenditures is expected to amount to approximately $6 trillion. Of this amount, almost
85 percent is attributable to oil exports. The cash flow from these cost and revenue
projections is highly positive from the outset. At the base-case benchmark oil price
assumption of $110 per barrel for Brent (in constant 2011 dollars), the net present value
of cash flow over the span of INES is $5 trillion. The NPV rises or falls by roughly $1
trillion as the assumed average oil price over the INES time period rises or falls by $20.

This investment program also provides positive results with respect to the other four
INES dimensions of strategy evaluation. All domestic demand for energy and energy-
intensive products will be met through domestic production by 2022. Employment in the
general economy, spurred by governmental reinvestment of energy sector revenue, is
expected to rise by 10 million jobs by 2030, bringing Iraq to a condition of full
employment. By 2020, economic activity in the non-oil-and-gas sectors of the economy
will be growing at a pace that surpasses growth in the oil and gas sector. Thereafter, the
economy’s relative dependence on oil will steadily diminish.

Institutional Reform

The energy sector’s institutional challenges fall into two time-frames, short-term and
middle to long-term.

   1. Short term:

In the short term the paramount challenges concern implementation. The INES plan is
front-loaded, in the sense that numerous significant infrastructure and design decisions
need to be made and implemented within the next three years, all in coordination with
one another. The sector’s rate of investment spending will double during this period.
Large numbers of contracts will need to be awarded and managed, and a greatly
expanded capital plant will need to be built and operated.

Three ministries will have primary responsibility for these tasks: the Ministry of Oil, the
Ministry of Electricity, and the Ministry of Industry and Minerals. INES proposes that
each of these Ministries establish a task force empowered to coordinate and expedite the
INES agenda within its Ministry. Because of the need for simultaneous development of
oil and gas infrastructure, it is proposed that the Ministry of Oil establish two such task
forces, one for oil and one for gas.



                                            42
It is proposed also that each Ministry also establish an institutional reforms committee in
addition to its task forces. This committee would be assigned to oversee the improvement
of long-term institutional capabilities and the design of a long-term institutional structure.
The task forces and the institutional reforms committees should be chaired by a Minister
or Deputy Minister. Each task force and committee should comprise 6 to 7 senior
officials of its Ministry, supported by external advisors as needed. Each should have the
authority to make decisions on behalf of its Ministry, and each should be held
accountable for accomplishing a specific set of tasks pursuant to the INES schedule.

The MoO’s Oil Task Force will be responsible for ensuring that oil production ramps up
on schedule. It will monitor and expedite field works, facilitate logistics, and oversee
development of the water injection infrastructure and oil evacuation infrastructure. The
Gas Task Force will monitor the development of needed gas gathering, processing, and
transport infrastructure, and ensure alignment with user requirements. It will commission
the design of a Master Gas System that optimizes pipeline architecture, provides efficient
systems of flow control, and defines appropriate technical standards and regulations for
the gas system. The MoO’s Institutional Reforms Committee will be responsible for
developing and overseeing a long-term agenda for building institutional capabilities and
reforming institutional structures. In the short term it will establish a Petroleum Reserve
Management System to help organize and analyze oil field data and support the
development of long-term production targets. It also will review and revise current
programs to incentivize private investment in refineries, and will recommend policies for
the domestic pricing of oil products, to be implemented within the next year in order to
permit industrial planning.

The MoE’s Power Task Force will be responsible for ensuring that the Ministry’s short-
term plan for expanding and commissioning new generation capacity is accomplished on
time. It will confirm that the necessary EPC contracts and fuel allocations are in place,
that plant construction proceeds on schedule, that transmission is upgraded to handle new
production, and that plans are in place for operating the new plants once they are
commissioned. The MoE’s Institutional Reforms Committee will develop a long-term
agenda for capabilities improvement and institutional restructuring. It also will initiate a
program for the phased introduction of Independent Power Projects (IPPs) into the
Ministry’s generation portfolio.

Finally, the MoE will establish a Loss Reduction Committee charged with developing a
program for reducing technical and commercial losses and defining a potential role for
private-sector operators of distribution systems.

The MoIM’s Linked Industries Task Force will have two short-term responsibilities. The
first is to establish a government-owned Iraq Strategic Industries Company to coordinate
and sponsor joint ventures in petrochemicals, fertilizers, steel, and aluminum. The second
is to establish an Industrial Park Authority with the authority and resources to develop a
major industrial park near Basra to provide shared infrastructure and facilities support to
strategic export industries. The Ministry’s Institutional Reforms Committee will be




                                             43
responsible for developing long-term plans for capabilities improvement, Ministry
restructuring, and promotion of local content in industry.

   2. Medium to Long term:

In the medium to long term, Iraq’s energy sector needs to adopt institutional reforms that
will equip it to oversee lasting growth and value creation. Because hydrocarbon resources
and their energy derivatives will dominate Iraq’s economy for the foreseeable future,
Iraq’s future prosperity will depend to a large degree on the professionalism,
transparency, efficiency, and integrity of its energy sector management. A framework of
energy governance is needed that insulates the sector from short-term political pressure
and allows sector managers to focus on the economic performance of their businesses.

The Industry Reforms Committees within each Ministry will be responsible for four
issues that are central to establishing this kind of institutional environment. During the
short term, these committees will develop plans addressing these issues; in the medium
term the Ministries will implement those plans.

   a. Capability development. Each Ministry needs to expand and strengthen its base of
      professional skills. Skills are particularly needed in the areas of contracting,
      project management, operations and maintenance, planning, regulation, and
      environmental management. Each Ministry needs an aggressive program to
      recruit, hire, and train skilled personnel. It also should work with national
      universities to develop programs of classroom and on-the-job technical and
      managerial training. In addition, each Ministry should work with its international
      contractors to incorporate training opportunities for Iraqis into their construction
      and management services.

   b. Institutional design. Governance of the energy sector should be characterized by
      (1) clear separation and accountability for the policy, regulatory, and operational
      aspects of governance; (2) unambiguous distribution of responsibility between
      federal and regional authority; (3) corporatized structures for the entities
      responsible for operations, and (4) unbundling of operational responsibilities to
      the extent needed for transparency, economic coherence, and competitive
      readiness. INES provides institutional design recommendations in these areas for
      each Ministry, for consideration by that Ministry’s Institutional Reform
      Committee.

   c. Private sector involvement. Participation by international investors provides not
      only a source of capital to the energy sector but also a source of investment
      discipline. International investors in Iraq would introduce international standards
      of financial accountability and transparency, serve as a reality check on the
      economic viability of investments, and provide a path for the introduction of
      world-class technology and expertise. Each Ministry should explore opportunities
      for expanding private-sector participation opportunities and attracting private
      sector investment. It also should establish programs to encourage and develop



                                           44
   local private-sector content in its sphere of operation in order to expand and
   diversify Iraq’s private economy.

d. Pricing. Many of Iraq’s energy products, most notably power are priced at levels
   that have little relationship to their cost of production or their opportunity cost.
   Over the long run this misalignment leads to resource inefficiency, creates
   barriers to competition, and makes it difficult to establish a workable market
   environment. Over the course of INES, indirect subsidization of energy pricing
   through non-economic pricing should be gradually phased out.




                                        45
Annex 3: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                   Responsibility/
              Names                              Title                   Unit
                                                                                     Specialty

Ferid Belhaj                     Country Director                   MNCO2
Hedi Harbi                       Country Director                   MNCO2
                                 Regional Programs and Partnerships
Jonathan Walters                                                    MNARS
                                 Director
Jean Michel Happi                Sector Manager                     ECCAR
Patricia Veevers-Carter          Sector Manager                     MNSSD
Charles Cormier                  Sector Manager                     MNSEE
Michael Levitsky                 Lead Energy Economist              SEGM2 TTL (2009-2010)
Simon Stolp                      Senior Energy Specialist           MNSEE TTL (2010-2013)
Husam Mohamed Beides             Lead Energy Specialist             MNSEE
Preeti Ahuja                     Manager                            MNADE
Yahia Said                       Sr. Public Sector Specialist       MNAFM
Nazeneen Ali                     Sr. Procurement Specialist         MNAPC
Maya Boulos Boulos               FM Specialist                      MNAFM
Sepehr Fotovat                   Sr. Procurement Specialist         MNAPC
Jad Mazahreh                     Sr Financial Management Specialist MNAFM
Nikolai Soubbotin                Lead Counsel                       LEGAM
Hocine Chalal                    Lead Env. Specialist               AFTN1
Jane Distelhorst Sansbury        Country Program Coordinator        EACNQ
Janet Dooley                     Sr Country Officer                 MNCO2
Najat Yamouri                    Sr. Social Dev. Specialist         MNSSU
Robert Murphy                    ETC                                   -
Mark Njore                       Program Assistant                  MNSEE
Khalid Boukantar                 Program Assistant                  MNSEE

(b) Staff Time and Cost


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage of Project
                                       No. of staff    USD Thousands (including
                   Cycle
                                         weeks         travel and consultant costs)
            Lending10
            FY09                                 0.00                            18,581.67
            FY10                                27.02                            95,410.91



10
     SAP project report information is does not reflect any Lending codes used in this project.



                                                  46
FY11               0.00       212.40
Total:            27.02   114,204.98
Supervision/ICR
FY10               9.47    43,863.88
FY11              13.37    92,343.57
FY12              21.65   158,286.02
FY13               9.49    69,625.28
Total:            53.98   374,451.85




                   47
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR

The opportunity arose during a meeting in 2009 with World Bank delegation headed by
Mr. Hedi Larbi, the director for the Middle East at the World Bank, with Prime
Minister’s Advisory Commission, for an agreement in principle whereas the World Bank
would offer technical and financial support to prepare an Integrated National Energy
Strategy as part of the technical support offered to the Iraqi Government. An agreement
was signed on Jan 11, 2010 following approvals by the Iraqi Government and the World
Bank management. A contract, financed jointly by the Iraqi Government and the World
Bank was then signed on July 1, 2010 with an International Consulting Firm,” selected in
a competitive bid according to the World Bank regulation to select the consulting firm.

The INES has been developed over the past 18 months by the Consultant under the
guidance of a steering committee of Iraqi government officials established by the PMAC,
representing the Ministries of Oil, Electricity, Planning, Finance, Mining and Industry,
and Environment. This steering committee has held more than 40 workshops to review
data and recommendations, and has played the lead role in setting the direction of the
report, identifying areas for analysis, reviewing and modifying data and assumptions, and
making policy choices.

The information used in developing the INES was gathered through extensive interaction
with Iraqi government ministries. This interaction involved an iterative process of
collecting, reconciling, and updating historical and current data. These data sources have
been supplemented by more than 150 interviews with government officials in the Iraq
federal government, with officials in Iraqi State-Owned Enterprises, with executives of
international oil companies and oil service companies involved in Iraq and KRG, and
with numerous technical consultants engaged in Iraq’s development plans. The study has
been conducted in five phases.

      Phase 1 consisted of planning: developing a detailed project plan, detailing data
       requirements, identifying interview subjects, scheduling interviews, and agreeing
       on mechanisms for information collection, verification, and management.
      Phase 2 consisted of base-lining: developing a comprehensive understanding of
       the current conditions of each subsector within the energy sector, identifying the
       principal challenges and strategic choices facing each subsector, and framing
       those challenges in the context of Iraq’s socio-economic and environmental
       circumstances.
      Phase 3 consisted of formulating the strategy: defining a vision and strategic
       evaluation framework, identifying broad strategic choices, and selecting an
       overall strategic design.
      Phase 4 consisted of detailing the strategy: developing integrated infrastructure
       priorities, specifying the scope, timing, and sequence of investments, allocating
       resources to uses, and identifying the institutional reforms needed to affect these
       plans.




                                           48
      Phase 5 consisted of finalizing the report: preparing final documentation,
       reviewing conclusions with the PMAC and with Iraq Ministries, and clarifying
       recommendations.

Iraq is endowed with one of the world’s richest supplies of oil and gas. Properly
developed, this endowment can be the foundation of a diverse, productive, and
continually growing economy. In order to realize this potential, Iraq needs strategic
clarity in two areas. The first area is economic, involving resource allocation and capital
investments. The second is institutional, involving accountabilities, capabilities,
governance, and industry structure. Because multiple institutions must work together to
accomplish the purposes of an integrated energy strategy, a clear economic roadmap is
needed that sets a shared agenda. Because that agenda can be accomplished only through
effective management of a large number of complex, interconnected tasks, strong
institutional roles and capabilities also are needed. The INES recognizes this dual need
for economic and institutional direction, and provides recommendations in both areas.

Chapters of the Final Report explain the following:

      Chapter 1 presents an introduction to the Integrated National Energy Strategy
       Final Report.
      Chapter 2 provides a description of Iraq’s energy sector baseline. It summarizes
       Iraq’s current energy position and existing development plans, and describes the
       challenges faced by the sector.
      Chapter 3 considers the socio-economic context in which the energy sector
       operates, and the particular stresses that the energy sector imposes on the
       environment
      Chapter 4 describes the framework used to define the strategy: beginning with a
       vision statement, proceeding to strategic objectives, and analyzing the strategic
       building blocks of supply, demand, and resource allocation priorities.
      Chapter 5 describes and explains the INES economic plan. It evaluates that plan
       against the defined INES policy objectives, and assesses its risks and sensitivities.
      Chapter 6 turns to the institutional dimension of INES, describing at a strategic
       level the legal and institutional initiatives needed to implement effectively the
       plan described in Chapter 5.
      Chapter 7 lays out a timeline of steps required by INES, defines the key metrics
       by which progress should be assessed, and recommends a structure for providing
       on-going INES oversight, execution, and coordination.

The INES is designed to provide a common strategic agenda for the various entities
involved in directing and managing Iraq’s energy sector. Major planning efforts are still
required to develop the technical, budgetary, and organizational details of this strategy.
Decisions regarding site locations, infrastructure configuration, environmental
remediation, and many other issues need to be made on the basis of detailed technical
analysis. INES provides a framework for these further studies and decisions, and
specifies many of the subjects they need to address, but it is not a substitute for them.




                                            49
The Final Report document summarizes INES findings, analyses, and recommendations.
The appendices to this document provide further supporting detail. The narrative and
appendices together constitute the final INES report.




                                        50
Annex 5: Arrangements for Results Monitoring




                                     51
52
Annex 6: Consultant Terms of Reference and Deliverables

A. 1 Data Review

In order to prepare the INES, it will be necessary for the Consultant to gain a
comprehensive understanding of the Iraqi energy sector. This will be achieved through
development of an initial “Data Review”, which will be a current view of the energy
sector as a whole that will inform the analysis within the INES.

The Consultant will review and make use of all the existing studies and information
related to the operational, technical, regulatory, institutional, environmental and social
aspects of the Iraqi energy sector. The PSC, PMT and related ministries will make their
best efforts to obtain relevant data for this review. Wherever possible the Consultant
should give advance notice of data requirements. The field collection and confirmation of
data (outside Baghdad) is expected to be very limited.

The Data Review should include both quantitative data about the Energy Sector (e.g.
production, consumption, trade, etc.), and information about the current sector
infrastructure and its state of repair. Gaps in the Government’s knowledge about key
aspects of the energy sector should be identified.

The Data Review will be a deliverable of the Project, and its quality and
comprehensiveness will ensure the high-quality INES the GoI requires. The Data Review
should be a reference source for use by the GoI and other stakeholders, and form a key
part of the First Interim Report (see below). It should also be available as a separate part
of the Final Report.

A.2 Comparative Country Experience.

An important component of the Consultant assignment will be a comparison of energy
sector strategies and institutional models of countries with a resource base similar to that
of Iraq. This comparison will also look at the role of the private sector in the energy
industry in these countries. Such a review will provide lessons based on these countries’
efforts to manage their energy resources, and highlight the basis of some INES
recommendations. A separate section on this should be prepared for inclusion in the Final
INES Report.

A. 3 Strategic Options and Alternative Plans (see also D. 4 Second Interim Report)

The largest part of the Consultant’s work will be the analysis of strategic options for the
development of Iraq’s energy sector, and the elaboration of the proposed strategy. In this
area the Consultant will work particularly closely with the PSC.

The methodology for the identification, analysis and ranking of strategic options will be
proposed by the Consultant. The manner of its practical deployment will be reviewed and




                                            53
agreed with the PSC. The Final Report will detail the strategic options, how they were
arrived at, and the method for the selection of the preferred options.

A. 4 Implementation Plan

Once the PSC (through interaction with the GoI) has decided on strategic directions and
priorities for energy, on the basis of the alternatives outlined by the Consultant, the
Consultant will develop the proposed “Implementation Plan”, including required policy
actions, road maps for institutional reforms, needs for capacity development, actions for
stakeholder engagement, and further evaluation needed to realize Iraq’s strategic goals.
The Implementation Plan will form an integral part of the Consultant’s INES report.

A.5 Assessment of Associated Investments

The Consultant will provide the investment program and its cost estimates and timeline,
necessary to fulfill the implementation plan. A general assessment will be made of the
extent to which funding could be made available from within the energy sector,
particularly from oil and gas revenues, and what outside financing may be required. The
Consultant will address the general nature and availability of outside financing that could
be available including foreign investment and loans. However, the Consultant’s
assessment will not include a detailed analysis of the relative availability and cost of
various external sources of financing, or the detailed relative merits of such sources.

A. 6 Environmental and Social Considerations in the Energy Sector

Full treatment of the environmental and social aspects of the energy sector is essential to
development of an integrated strategy. The INES will include a stand-alone
Environmental and Social Report detailing the main environmental and social issues
relevant to an energy strategy for Iraq, and the associated mitigation interventions
(policies, regulations, investments etc.). This report will be utilized both as a stand-alone
reference and as a source in developing the INES.

The report will include a thorough review of the following areas: a. Environmental
impact of oil and gas operations, b. Environmental impact of power sector operations, c.
Environmental impact of end-use of energy in the transportation, industrial and
household sectors,, d. Social aspects of energy sector investments and operations, e.
Institutional and regulatory models for the management of environmental and social
impacts of energy sector operations, f. Use of Environmental and Social Impact
Assessments in the energy sector, g. Examples of relevant practice from other countries
with similar energy sector conditions, h. Institutional and regulatory reform options for
Iraq in these areas, and i. Considerations relating to the international policy framework to
address climate change.

The stand-alone Report on Environmental and Social issues will be made available to
Government and public sector agencies, and to other knowledgeable stakeholders at the
Second Interim stage of the Project reporting schedule (see below). The Bank will receive


                                             54
a copy of the Report. The Consultant will assist the PSC and PMT to obtain comments
from stakeholders, and will describe the comments received in the Final Environmental
and Social Report issued with the Final Report. To assist with dissemination of the
Report, the consultant will assist the PSC and PMT to organize a workshop with
participation of representative stakeholders.

A. 7 Capacity Building and Strategy Dissemination

Except for workshops directly related to the course of development of the INES, the
Consultants will not be required to provide basic capacity building services.

The PMT and PSC will organize workshops and seminars introducing and explaining the
INES to the GoI and the public. The Consultant will participate in these events to explain
their work. These events will be coordinated with the Consultant’s other tasks so as to
minimize expense and effort. This program will remain at the discretion of the GoI as the
Project proceeds (see also D6 below).

A. 8 Coordination with External Activities

It is important that the work on the INES is linked to the Iraq Technical Assistance
Project funded by the World Bank (through the ITF): “Support for Power Sector
Generation Planning and Development”. This Project’s focus is on Iraq’s investment plan
for the power generation sector in the medium and long term. Work is expected to take
place in parallel with the INES, and the analysis and results of the two projects should be
coordinated to ensure consistency and to avoid duplication. However, in order to present
an integrated energy strategy, the INES work will cover all the key aspects of Iraq’s
power sector development. The work should also be coordinated with the cooperation
between the GoI and the Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership (GGFR), managed by
the World Bank. The GGFR is working with the MoO on flaring reduction and gas
utilization.

A. 9 Guidelines and Limitations

In undertaking the INES and providing advice to the GoI, the Consultant will work
within the following framework:
a. The Consultant will work within the existing basic Iraqi constitutional and legal
framework as advised by the GoI.
b. The Consultant will not specifically address sub-national (i.e. regional) aspects of
energy sector policy, including for example the division of institutional responsibilities
between the regions, oil revenue distribution, and distribution of energy investments as a
means of pursuing regional policy.
c. In developing strategic advice, the Consultant will take full account of existing
economic and sector plans.
d. The macro-economic consequences and challenges of strategic energy decisions
should be considered (e.g. Dutch disease, oil revenue management), however the




                                             55
Consultant will not be required to analyze macro-economic policies to deal with such
challenges.
e. The Consultant’s recommendations will not address specific existing, proposed, and
possible commercial contracts involving GoI or its agencies.
f. Physical security issues that may affect investment options will not be considered.

B. Reports and Schedule of Deliveries

B. 1 Inception Report

The Consultant will prepare and submit an Inception Report within two months of
signing the contract, to be discussed with and approved by the PSC. The Inception Report
should describe:
a. the institutional and logistical arrangements agreed with the PSC through the PMT,
b. the schedule and nature of future Project reports (progress, interim, draft final, and
final),
c. the information that is needed to complete the Data Review and an initial evaluation of
contents of this report,
d. the proposed schedule of meetings and contact with relevant ministries and agencies,
e. a complete staffing plan, including sub-contracted staff to be hired by the Consultant
on an as-needed basis,
f. implementation issues that have arisen to date, and proposed solutions to these,
g. actions and comments on the Terms of Reference as agreed including initial views on
methodology, and
h. any additional considerations to be taken into account in the course of the work.

The Inception Report shall include a detailed schedule and task-flow diagram, which
depicts the interrelationship of various tasks in the assignment which lead to the
completion of the work and the mechanism of coordination with the GoI and other
entities. This would be kept and updated throughout the Project duration in the Progress
Reports (see below).

B. 2 First Interim Report

The First Interim Report will provide:
a. a detailed review of all the information obtained to date,
b. the Data Review deliverable itself,
c. the analysis of this information and methodology for the purposes of developing the
INES,
d. review of discussions to date with the GoI,
e. a general initial overview of strategic options, and
f. the status of strategic evaluation.




                                           56
B. 3 Report on Environmental and Social Issues

This report will address the issues referred to in section C7. The Report will be published
at the same time as the Second Interim Report.

B. 4 Second Interim Report

The Second Interim Report will provide:
a. a review of the work to date,
b. a detailed description of strategic options,
c. a full discussion of the strategic options, taking into account the analysis and
discussions held to date,
d. the decisions required of the GoI to complete the assignment, and
e. recommendations to the GoI on finalizing the INES.

The Interim Reports will be provided to the PSC, PMT and also to the World Bank. They
will be discussed with the PSC in full. The GoI will be expected to approve the Interim
Reports, but will not take more than 25 days to do so (unless otherwise agreed).

B. 5 Draft Final Report

The Draft Final Report will include the description of the INES as conceived by the
Consultant, taking account of all discussions with the GoI and other information received.
The Report will cover all of the elements described above, and detail priority actions for
further study and investment planning.

The Data Review developed for the INES will be provided in a separate volume. The
Final Environmental and Social Report will also be provided in a separate volume.

The INES Draft Final Report will include, in a separate volume, a Summary outlining all
the key recommendations and conclusions, and the essentials of the strategic analysis.

A detailed slide presentation will be provided explaining all the main features of the
INES. The Draft Final Report and the slide presentation will form the basis of a
presentation to be made to the PSC and other representatives of the GoI, which will
include a full discussion. A copy of the Draft Final Report and the other separate volumes
will be provided to the World Bank.

B. 6 Final Report

The Final Report will reflect and address the outcome of discussions of the Draft Final
Report with the GoI. Revisions to the Draft Final Report will be based on comments
received by the Consultant, including from members of the PSC and the Prime Minister’s
Advisory Commission (PMAC). The Final Report will be similar in structure to the Draft
Final Report (unless otherwise agreed with the GoI), and will include the written work
itself and a final version of the accompanying INES presentation.


                                            57
The Consultant will present the final INES to members of the GoI, and possibly to wider
audiences in accordance with the Government’s dissemination plans. The number of such
presentations shall not exceed three, and their time, date, location and audience will be
determined through discussions with the PSC. The Final Report will be made available to
all stakeholders and will be posted online.

B. 7 Progress Reports

Progress Reports will be delivered once every two months, to keep the PSC and the PMT
succinctly informed regarding the progress of the assignment and related administrative
issues. Such Progress Reports will include updates to the Project schedule and task-flow
diagram initially provided in the Inception Report. The Reports will also serve to set out
the work program for the following months, while ensuring the PSC remains satisfied
with the Project’s direction.

Unless agreed otherwise by the PSC and the Consultant, Progress Reports will be
delivered and discussed in person by the Consultant at meetings with the PSC, either in
Baghdad or at a mutually agreed-upon location. Minutes of the meetings will be produced
by the Consultant. To ensure efficient use of these periodic in-person meetings,
telephone/video conferences should be held prior to Progress Reports to identify key
issues. The reports and meeting minutes will be sent to the World Bank.




                                           58
Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents

   1. Iraq National Development Plan : 2014-2017, Ministry of Planning of Iraq,
      September 2013
   2. World Bank Project Paper, Report No:54882-IQ, December 22nd, 2009




                                        59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33422R



                                                                                                                            IRAQ
                                                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                   MAIN ROADS

                                                                            GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                                        RAILROADS

                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                            GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                            RIVERS                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                            40E                                       42E                                                   44E                                           46E                                      48E


                                       TU R K EY                                                                                             To Urmia


                                                                                                                                                               To Urmia
                                                                                                             - -
                                                                                                            Zakhu                                                                                 0          50           100      150 Kilometers
                                                              To
                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                DAHUK
                                                                              -
                                                          Al Qamishli
                                                                                               Tig                     - 'Aqrah
                                                                                                                    Dahuk                                                                         0                  50               100 Miles
                                                                                                  r R.
                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                                                                        Haji Ibrahim
                                                                                                                                                             - -
                                                                                                                                                            Rayat        (3,600 m)
                                                                                 -                                          Mosul               -
                                                                             Sinjar                                                          ARBIL
                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                 Arbil
   36N
                   Euphr
                           ates                                                     -                                                                                                                                                                           36N
                                  R.                  To Dayr
                                                      az Zawr
                                                                                  N I N AW Á
                                                                                                                                                                                 As
                                                                                                                                                                                      - -
                                                                                                                                                                                Sulaymaniyah                              ISLA MI C
                                                                                             Al Hadr
                                                                                                                                                                               - -                                        REPUBLI C
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                         Kirkuk     AS SULAYMANIYAH
    S Y RIAN                                                                                                                             KIRKUK                                                                           O F IRA N
                                           To Dayr
     ARA B                                 az Zawr                                                                          -
                                                                                                                        Bayji          Ja
                                                                                                                                            ba
      RE P.                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                             -       H
                                                                                         -
                                                                                        'Anah
                                                                                                                       - Tikrit
                                                                                                                    SALAH AD
                                                                                                                                   am
                                                              -                                                         -             ri                                                         -   -
                                                          Al Qa'im                                                     DIN      -  -
                                                                                                                             Samarra'    n                                                To Kermanshah
   34N                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                    Al Hadithah                                                                                                                                                 34N
                                                                                                                                                                                 - -
                                                                                                                                      Tharthar
 To Hims                                                                                                                              Lake                           -
                                              - -
                                           'Akashat                                                                                                              Ba'qubah
                                                                                                                                  - -                            -
                                                                                                                            Ar Ramadi
                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                              DIYALÁ
                                                                                                                                        Al Fallujah
                                                                                                               - -
                                                                                                           Habbaniyah
                                                                                                                                                           BAGHDAD
                                                                                                                                                          BAGHDAD
                                                                      -                                          Lake
                                                                   AL ANBAR
JORDAN




                                                                                                                Razzaza                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                 WA S I T
           To
                 Trebil
                          S            y       r      i       a         n                                          Lake                 -
                                                                                                                                  Karbala                 -
                                                                                                                                                         BABIL                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                       Al Kut         Tigr
                                                                                                                                                                                                           is R.
         Amman
                                                                                                                                       -                  Al Hillah
                                                                                                                                 KARBALA'                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Dezful
                                                     D        e         s     e         r       t                                                                         - - -                   Al Hayy
   32N                                                                                                                                                                Ad Diwaniyah                                                                              32N
                                                                                               Nukhayb                                  An Najaf
                                                                                                                                                               -   -                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Al 'Amarah
                                                                                                                                                           AL QADISIYAH                                            -
                                                                                                                                                           Eu
                                                                                                                                                             phr                                               MAYSAN
                                                                                                                                                                   ates
                                                                                                                                                                        R   .         -    Ash Shatrah                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                As Samawah             Al 'Uzayr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Ahvaz
                                                                                               S                                 AN NAJAF                                                         - -
                                                                                                   a                                                                                            DHI QAR
                                                                                                       h                                                                                                  - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                      An Nasiriyah
                                                                                                           ra
                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                       Al Basrah
                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                 ij                                -
                                                                                                                                                            As Salman
                                                                                                                                      ar                                                                            AL Az Zubayr
                                                                                                                                            ah                                                                                            Umm
                                                                                                                                                          AL MUTHANNÁ                                              BASRAH                 Qasr
   30N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30N



                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To Ad
                                            IRAQ                                                                                                                                                                           Damman

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KUWA IT
                                                                                              S A UDI A RA BIA

                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
   28N

                              40E                                                 42E                                                       44E                                                 46E                                            48E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          APRIL 2012
