Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6730-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 2, 1987
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      Tunisian Dinar (D)
US$ 1.00           =      D 0.813
D 1.00             -      US$1.23
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNT             -    National Bank of Tunisia
(Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
CFPR            -    Professional Training Center of Remel
(Centre de Formation Professionnelle de Remel)
CRDA            -    Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commission R6gionale de Developpement Agricole)
CTV             -    Local Extension Unit
-    (Cellule Territorlale de Vulgarisation)
DCES            -    Directorate of Water and Soil Conservation
(Direction de la Conservation des Eaux et du Sol)
DF              -    Directorate of Forests
(Direction des Forets)
DGR             -    Directorate of Rural Engineering
-    (Direction du Genie Rural)
DPSAE           -    Directorate of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analysis
-    (Direction de la Planification, des Statistiques
et des Affaires Economiques)
DREF            -    Directorate of Forest Exploitation
(Direction de la R6gie d'Exploitation Forestiere)
INRF            -    National Institute of Forestry Research
-    (Institut National de la Recherche Forestiere)
MOA             -    Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l'Agriculture)
MOPF            -    Mini.try of Planning and Finance
(Ministere du Plan et des Finances)
OEP             -    National Livestock and Pasture Agency
-    (Office de l'Elevage et des Paturages)
GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNLSIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Summary
Borrower:                         Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                           US$20 million equivalent
Terms:                            17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Prolect Description:              The proposed Project would establish the basis
for the comprehensive conservation,
development and use of Tunisia's forestry
resources and provide for a doubling of
current wood production by the end of the
implementation period following
environmentally sound practices. To this end,
the Project would include (a) thinning of some
50,000 ha of conifer plantations and
exploitation of some 21,000 ha of natural
forest together with a corresponding
regeneration program; (b) establishment of
some 10,600 ha of fast-growing plantations;
(c) improvement of integrated forest
management of two aegraded natural forests
(6,600 ha); (d) improvement of some 3,400 ha
of pabture and rangeland adjacent to forest
regeneration; (e) preparation of a national
inventory and developu2nt plan for forestry
resources; (f) provision of technical
assistance, training, and equipment to
forestry related departments; (g) improvement
of seed collection and forest nurseries, and
distribution of selected trees; and (h)
provision of nature conservation measures.
Apart from production and environmental
benefits,which include project action in
support of the government program to protect
eight world threatened vertebrates, the
Project would have an important employment
creating effect in rural areas. The principal
risk, which was addressed in the design of the
Project, is the possible slow adoption by
beneficiaries of the range management program,
which would hamper forest regeneration effort.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Costs
Local      Foreign       Total
------(US$ Million)      …
Works                                          2.2          2.1           4.3
Plantations                                    9.7          6.2          15.9
Equipment                                      3.5          4.8           8.3
Technical assistance and training              0.5          1.3           1.8
Incremental operating costs                    5.5          2.8           8.3
Total Base Cnsts                         21.4         17.2          38.6
Physical contingencies                  1.5          1.4           2.9
Price contingencies                     7.3          1.4           8.7
Total Project Costs                       30.2 /a     20.0          50.2
Financing Plan
Local      Foreigi       Total
-----(US$ Million)---------
World Bank                                     -           20.0          20.0
Government                                    19.6           -           19.6
Net Project Costs                         19.6        20.0          39.6
Taxes and Duties                          10.6          -           10.6
Total Project Costs                      30.2         20.0          50.2
Estimated Disbursement
Bank FY    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
Annual      0.6      1.9      3.1     3.9      3.6     2.9      2.1      1.5    0.4
Cumulative  0.6      2.5      5.6     9.5    13.1    16.0    18.1    19.6   20.0
Economic Rate of Return            182
Staff Appraisal Report             No. 6730-TUN
Map No.                            IBRD 19893
/a Includes US$10.6 million of taxes and duties.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I      INTRODUCTION ..............*....*. ..           ...*I...*****               1
.i.    THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR ................                                     2
A.  PXAce of Forestry in Economy ...............  .............            2
B.  Forest and Environment 4.................................              4
C.  Forest Resources  5......c ..........................*****             5
D.  Forest Use and Production 5 ...........5
E.  Processing Forestry Products               ........                    6
F.  Forest Production Price Policy............................             7
G.  Management and Institutional Framework             ...                 8
H.  Investment in the Subsector                                            9
I.  Development Objectives and Strategiea                                 10
J.  Sector Constraints Relevant to the Project ...............            11
III.   BANK LENDING IN AGRICULTURE AND PAST PERFORMANCE .............             12
IV     TH  PRJC  ...........                                     ... **O.*        14 *  eeev  * *vv   *-   vX v    * -* X  
A.  Context and Rationale of Bank Involvement .......14
B.  General Description and Components .....14
C.  Detailed Features                                                     16
D.  Start-up Activities and Status of Design .................            21
E.  Costs  ............21
F.  Financing .....23
G.  Procurement .....*      ...23
H. Disbursement .......................*. .......                         25
V.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............                                     27............  21
A.  Organization, Management and Execution of Works ..........            27
B.  Monitoring and Evaluation................   ..............            29
C.  Accounts and Audit ...         ...................................    29
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ............             30
A.  Production ...............*....*  .  .......                          30
B.  Market Prospects ........... ..... ..... *.. ...... .... ...... .     31
C.  Prices ...............................31
D.  Financial Results ........* ...............................           33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Tunisia in December 1986, composed of Messrs. C. Gois (Mission Leader), C.
Holloway (Forestry Specialist), J. Glenn (Livestock Specialist), Ms. Patel
(Economist), and Messrs. M. Ladurner, L. Marenzi and El Mili (Consultants).



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................  ............     36
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries            ........                   36
B.  Environmental Impact ........... . . . . . . . . .   .................  36
C. Economic Analysis . *.................*  ........... .            37
D.  Proiect Risks and Sensitivit, Tests ....... o   .........        38
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................       40
Supporting Tables
Table 1   Project Components by Year
Table 2   Project Cost Summary
Table 3   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Table 4   Vehicles
Table 5   Annual Wood Production and Revenues
Table 6    Plantations Established since 1962
Table 7   Estimated Government Cash Flow
Table 8    Estimated Foreign Exchange Flow
Table 9   Total Project-Related Direct Employment Creation
Table 10  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Charts
1. Implementation Schedule
2. DF - Organization Chart
3. DREF - Organization Chart
Map
IBRD 19893
Annexes in the hnplementation Volume
Annex 1   Cost Tables
Annex 2   Regeneration of Natural Forest
Annex 3   Forest Exploitation
Annex 4   Mechanization of Forest Plantation
Annex 5   Fast-Growing Forest Plantations and Public Tree Planting
Annex 6   Forest Management
Annex 7   Range and Pastureland Improvement
Annex 8   Nature Conservation
Annex 9   Tree Seed Collection and Research
Annex 10  Technical Assistance, Research and Training
Annex 11  Domestic Forestry Production, Perspectives and Prospects
Annex 12  Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 13  The Forestry Coordination Committee and the
Project Management Unit. Competence and Duties



STAFF APPItSAL REPORT
TTJNLSIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01     In 1985, the deficit in Tunisia's trade in wood and wood products
was over $65 million having nearly doubled in the previous six-year period
while the potential for increased local production of wood products in
recent years has been increasingly ignored. The proportion of the
Ministry of Agriculture's investment budget allocated to forestry and soil
conservation has dropped steadily during the past 15 years (from 25% in
1962/71 to 6.51 in 1982/86). Innovative management has been lacking.
Given this background, and the current high development potential of
Tunisia's forest resources the Government has decided to initiate
restoration of forest management to the position of making a full
contribution to the economic development of the country, by increasing
production of wood and forest related products, better safeguarding the
environment and revitalizing public involvement in forestry.
1.02     The Bank has been working closely with the Government in
reviewing past agricultural expenditure policies and in developing the
strategy for investments under the VIITH Development Plan, with
particular focus on the adjustments needed to maintain growth and to
reduce the sector trade deficit. It has been agreed that the improved
management of forestry resources should form an integral part of this
program. While the reorientation of sector policies is being addressed
through the ASAL (Loan 2754-TUN), a Forestry Development Project would
both strengthen this dialogue and provide the essential. mechanism to
develop, implement and monitor the detailed technical and managerial
innovations needed to achieve the full benefit of the agreed reorientation
in subsector expenditures. The Bank's involvement would also facilitate
the transfer of experience gained in other Mediterranean countries.
1.03     The ongoing Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project (Loan
2197-TUN) included a feasibility study on range management and
desertification control in South and South-Central Tunisia. In early
1983, however, Government proposed that this study be enlarged to a
forestry development improvement project. The study was carried out in
1985 by FAO through a Trust Fund Agreement and assistance under FAO's
Technical Cooperation Program. Its final version was issued in 1986. It
included an analysis of the forestry subsector and a preparation report
for a Forest Development Project. By early October 1986, a Bank mission
considered the project ready for appraisal which took place in December
1986.
(32275)



- 2 -
I. THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR '
A. Place of Forest in Economy
2.01     Forests in Tunisia occupy approximately 900,000 ha and constitute
5.52 of Tunisian land area.-' High forest accounts for some 585,000 ha of
the total and comprises 345,000 ha of natural forest and approximately 240,000
ha of plantations. The balance of 315,000 ha is maguis and garrigue.'
Some 99Z of forests are on state land while there are approximately 9,000 ha
of forest which have been established primarily by Government on private land.
2.02     In 1985, the total value of forestry-related production was estimated
to be around D 38.0 million (US$47 million) which is some 4% of the value of
production of the whole agricultural sector. This Includes receipts from
forestry (cork, wood, secondary products, and fines) of about D 2.2 million,
direct revenue from hunting, including licences, meat produced and animals
exported (D 2.1 million), of esparto grass harvested (D 2.3 million) and of
actual fuelwood taken (valued at D 5.0/m3 41 it amounts to D 31.6 million).
VALUE OF FORESTRY-RELATED PRODUCTS
(D Million)
1981                1983              1985
Wood and wood products             1.1                 1.4                2.2
Hunting and game                   1.6                 1.2                2.1
Esparto grass                      1.6                 1.8                2.3
Fuelwood                           7.7                 7.7               31.6
Total                12.0                12.0              38.2 /a
/a  The dramatic increase in fuelwood value results from the unit price, four
times higher than before.
I/  This report discusses the forestry subsector only.  The Tunisian
agricultural sector context, its Place and performance in the economy, the
main constraints to its development, and policy changes required to
achieve desired objectives are fully described in: (a) the Agricultural
Sector Survey (No. 3876-TUN of 09/29/82); (b) the most recent Country
Economic Memorandum (No. 5328-TUN of 10/85); and (c) the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 2754-TUN) President's Report
(No. P-4368-TUN of 09/03/86).
2/ All the figures indicated in this chapter are rough estimates, since no
comprehensive inventory of forestry resources has yet been made in Tunisia.
3/ Two forms of degraded forest: maquis is dense scrub, up to 4 m high, which
occurs primarily in the north; garrigue is more open and degraded scrub,
which occurs primarily in the central region of the country.
4/ Average price received for official sales in 1985.
(32273)



- 3 -
2.03     Forestry's indirect contribution is considered to be significant,
although not easily quantified. Most of the 750,000 people who live in or
around tho/ forest estate are poor and dependent to varying degrees upon
forestry, not only for employment (an estimated li;.2 million man-days in
1984), free fuel, free or subsidized grazing and other forest products, but
also for the provision of roads and related services in otherwise isolated
rural areas. Also of greater importance, in a relatively arid country such as
Tunisia, is the contribution that forests and forestry make to the restriction
of soil erosion, regulation of water supplies, prevention of sedimentation of
dam impoundments, the stability and amelioration of micro-climates and the
enhancement of amenity and recreational values.
2.04     However, as a result primarily of poor growth and paucity of high
forest, over 952 of the country's timber and wood product requirements,
excluding fuelwood, are imported. In 1985, the total deficit in the
commercial balance of imports and exports of wood and wood products was around
D 53.0 million (US$65 million).
DEFICIT IN COMMERCIAL BALANCE OF WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS
(D Million)
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
30.5     28.9     37.2      43.7     50.1      53.0
If forest resources could be better managed, wood production could be
increased and there would be a ready market and scope for foreign exchange
savings through import substitution. At present, Tunisian industries operate
primarily on imported raw materials. Tunisia's total wood (including
fuelwood), wood panel and paper and paperboard requirements in roundwood
equivalents based on 1983/84 actual figures are estimated by FAO as follows:
DEMAND FOR WOOD PRODUCTS
(m3 million)
1983          1987            1991            2000
7.3           7.6             7.8             8.0
Projections are made based on actual figures and population forecasts, taking
into account consumption per capita according to acceptable evolving criteria
and type of product. It is assumed that fuelwood consumption would decrease
through gradual replacement of wood by other fuels, whereas increase of demand
would essentially result from industrial woood.



B. Forests and Environment
2.05     The most important function of the Tunisian forest is to protect and
enhance agricultural productivity by preventing the closely related phenomena
of desert encroachment and soil erosion. The southern half of Tunisia is in
the pre-desert or desert zone with an average annual rainfall of less than 200
mm. Loss of natural vegetation in these areas because of overgrazing and
cutting for fuel has resulted in shifting of sand by wi.nd and its encroachment
into agricultural areas further north. The principal means of preventing
desert encroachment is by raising artificial dunes at the perimeter of the
desert by mechanical fixing, followed by planting of trees and shrubs, which
after a period of protection can be used as grazing reserves. Since the start
of the first National Development Plan, in 1962, the Directorate of Forests in
the Ministry of Agriculture (DF) has established some 11,700 ha of tree and
shrub plantations in the south to fix contential dunes and arrest desert
spread. It has protected more than 50 oases and many roads and buildings. A
further 93,000 ha have been planted to fix coastal dunes mainly in the
vicinity of Bizerte, Cap Bon, and Tabarka.
2.06     In the northern and central regions of the country, rainfall
frequently occurs in short but severe storms and high winds are common (in Cap
Bon, winds have been recorded for 300 days/year). Loss of the olive-lentisque
forest that once cove2red much of this region has accentuated soil erosion by
wind and water and it has been estimated that 80  of the country is sub ect to
erosion, at least half of which is severe. Some two to three billion m of
water are believed to be lost to run-off each year. In part of the Project
area, at Kasserine, there is ample evidence of abandoned land following acute
degradation of vegetation. Maintenance of adequate forest cover, especially
in areas of steep slopes, provides an excellent protection against soil
erosion. Since 1962, DF has established 51,600 ha of forest plantations,
primarily for protective purposes in degraded forests, 15,000 ha,of wind
breaks in agricultural areas, and 15,200 ha of roadside planting to provide
protection from wind and for shade. Since 1970, protective plantations,
terracing, land consolidation and agro-pastoral management has been undertaken
in eleven priority water catchment areas in the north and central regions to
reduce sedimentation of dam impoundments for irrigation and hydro-electric
development.
2.07     Some 3,470 ha of "recreational" forest plantations have been
established primarily in the vicinity of townships, but hunting is the
principal use of forests for recreation. Hunting, primarily of small game
(e.g., partridges and hares), is organized through Hunting Associations (one
per arroidissement) under the overall charge of a National Hunting Council.
The Provincial Forest Officers and the Director, DF, respectively, are the
chairmen of these associations and regulations are enforced by the Hunting
Brigades of DF. In 1985/86, 15,800 registered local hunters and 1,600 foreign
hunters were issued hunting permits. These numbers have doubled in the past
ten years. Visiting hunters are restricted to shooting agricultural pests,
primarily wild pig, thrushes and starlings. Approximately 2.0 million ha of
forest and paatureland are open and 1.0 million ha closed (the Hunting
Reserve) to hunting each year. Wildlife in terreetrial areas is estimated to
earn over D 3.0 million/year for the country in direct and indirect revenue,
comprising approximately D 1.2 million for licences, hunting, travel, and
(3227E)



accommodation expenses of visiting hunters, D 0,7 million in licence fees and
value of meat obtained by local hunters, and D 1.4 million from export of meat
primarily from harmful animals (primarily starlings and sparrows).
2.08     In spite of heavy human pressure on its natural resources, Tunisia
has a very varied fauna and flora (approximately 75 species of mammals, 400
species of birds, over 100 species of amphibians, reptiles and fish, and more
than 5,500 species and sub-species of plants). It has four national parks
(the Isles of Zembra and Zembretta and the mainland parks of Ishkeul, Chambi
and Bou Redma, which total 36,102 ha) and the new park, presently awaiting
gazettement, of Bou Kornine (19,390 ha, primarily of coastal fcrest, 15 km
south of Tunis). It also has seven wetlands of international significance to
migratory waterfowl. Further development of natural areas is seen as an
important complement to the country's recreational and cultural
(archeological) facilities for tourism, which accounts for 1.5 million
visitors/year. The revised Forest Code (para. 2.21) will provide for
government involvement in a much wider range of conservation initiatives such
as the establishment of biological reserves and protection of flora. Numerous
initiatives have Lzen taken in recent years to conserve threatened species
(Tunisia has eight world-threatened vertebrates, including the only species of
deer in Africa), to protect raptors, control poaching and reintroduce formerly
extinct species (addax, oryx, and ostrich) in the arid south as an alternative
or complement to stock raising. The broader issues of enviroamental
management, such as environmental impact assessment of development proposals
are now being raised through the Directorate of Agricultural Environmental
Affairs.
C. Forest Resources
2.09     The natural high forest is composed of approximately 80,000 ha of
cork oak, 10,000 ha of zeen oak, 10,000 ha of maritime pine, and 45,000 ha of
miscellaneous species (e.g. oaks, cypress, thuya), which occur in a belt,
50 km wide, along the northwest coast in an annual rainfall zone of 850-
1,000 mm and 200,000 ha of Aleppo pine forest in the west central zone, north
of Kasserine/Kairouan in annual rainfalls of 250-450 mm. The artificial
forests (about 240,000 ha) are composed of approximately 40X broadleaved
species and around 602 conifers.
D. Forest Use and Production
2.10     Management plans exist for 262,000 ha of high forest, and 42,000 ha
of forest plantations. Traditionally, high forest has been naturally
regenerated by various shelterwood systems but grazing pressure has made
natural regeneration increasingly difficult so that regeneration has often
been long-delayed and eventually accomplished by seeding or planting even
though the revenue of harvested timber is frequently too low to pay for these
planting costs.
2.11     Forest losses from fire, principally during the summer (June-
September) are low. An average of only 900 ha/year (0.1% of total forest
area) were burned during the period 1971-1980, compared with, for example,
1.3% in Portugal. A system of surveillance is being established. Tunisian
forests suffer from periodic attacks from insects. A wood borer (Phoracantha
semi-punctata) in Eucalyptus is the most serious and, in the absence of
persistent control measures, can cause widespread tree deaths.



- 6 -
2.12     The most serious threat to the forest, however, is uncontrolled human
use of forest and grazing lands. Much of Tunisia's forests have been degraded
by the overgrazing of domestic stock. The combination of human pressure and
often poor soils and low rainfall results in low growth rates in natural
forests. Average growth rates in plantations are also poor. In 1985, the
total production was estimated at 615,000 m3/year, comprising only
5 m3/ha/year or about half of what might commonly be expected for
broadleaved species and only 1.5 m3/ha/year or only 20% of normal
expectations for conifers. Prior to 1965, many plantations, especially of
eucalyptus, were established without adequate attention to site quality.
Since the early 1970s, multi-purpose trees, such as Acacia spp., have been
most commonly used but their growth has often been restricted by poor tending
and maintenance and inadequate p-otection against grazing. Better management
and site preparation could undoubtedly increase yields.
2.13     By far the greatest forest production at present is in forage and
fuelwood (wood and charcoal), the majority of which is used by local
populations, who reside in or within 5 km of the state forests and, therefore,
have rights to forest products with minimal or no payment. The quantities of
fuelwood cut each year by the Forest Services for sale is only a fraction of
the wood taken by rightholders; the actual quantities of wood removed from the
forest, legally and illegally, is consiAerably greater still.
2.14     A study of wood energy use in Tunisia, in 1983,L/ estimates the
current consumption of fuelwood (and charcoal) to be around 6 million m3.
Of this amount, about a third is obtained from agricultural crop residues;
illegal cutting from forests represents another third. Official sales of
fuelwood represent less than 10% of total fuelwood use. However, there is
reason to believe that fuelwood consumption figures are overstated.2' The
volumes suggest large-scale trade outside forest regions; with the controls
that are applied to transport and sale of fuelwood and charcoal, this illegal
trade would be very risky and hardly profitable at prevailing prices, other
sources of energy being less expensive and more practical.-  The use of
fuelwood would appear to be prevalent in mountainous areas where wood is cheap
(not having to support the high cost of transport).
E. Processing Forestey Products
2.15     Approximately 40% of legally collected wood is transformed to charcoal
by traditional systems. Their conversion efficiency is low (16%, on average),
which could te increased considerably (to about 40%) by the use of improved
kilns. The extension services would address these aspects under the Project,
in particular through introduction of cheap but efficient kilns (para. 4.07).
2.16     Primary and secondary wood industries cover approximately 2,300
enterprises and employ some 11,700 persons. More than 95% of the sawn lumber
used in Tunisia each year is imported. There are nine sawmills, which depend
heavily on imported timber. The country has five particle board mills whose
total installed capacity is 70,000 m3, of which more than half has normally
1/ Mr. E. D. Michaelides, FAO.
2/ See Annex 11 for more details.
3/  For example, the cost per 1,000 kCal is 10 millimes for fueloil, 12
millimes for fuelwood, 23 millimes for bottled gas and 43 millimes for
charcoal.
(3227E)



been supplied locally. A medium density fiberboard factory that was installed
in 1982 with a capacity of 30,000 m3/year is closing down as a result of
high production costs and weak demand for this type of product. There are six
plywood factories workiag at 50% of their capacity and using approximately
18,000 m3 of wood each year, all of which is imported. The pulp mill at
Kasserine is supplied entirely from Tunisian esparto grasslands; its
production has fluctuated considerably but recently it has produced
approximately 20,000 tons of pulp/year of which approximately half is exported
to Western Europe and half used for paper production in Tunisia. Two
factories for the manufacture of cork products are supplied entirely from the
cork oak forests. There are 64 industrial furniture manufacturers and some
2,000 artisans. There are a variety of minor forest industries supplied
entirely from State Forests, notably the manufacture of pipes from briar roots
(Erica arborea), vegetable fiber from dwarf palm, aromatic oils from
distillation of rosemary and myrtle bushes and sale of edible pine seed.
2.17     The industrial infrastructure would appear to be adequate given the
Tunisian market for wood, with the exception of sawmilling capacity. Existing
sawmills are characterized by old, outdated equipment. The private sector has
been unwilling to invest in this subsector given the lack of availability of
domestic logs suitable for sawing. With the proposed Project, the supply of
such logs is expected to increase considerably and preliminary discussions
with sawmillers indicate that renewal of equipment will follow. There is
excess capacity in particle board manufacture given local market demand.
However, Tunisian particle board is not competitive in international markets
at present (quality and price considerations) which would preclude the
possibility of exports.
2.18     Several other industries are directly dependent upon the state forest
lands, including hunting (in 1983, 11,076 hunting licenses were sold and
590 tons of game meat were produced in addition to trophies) and apiculture,
which produces several tons of honey and wax each year.
F. Forest Production Price Policy
2.19     There is no clear articulated forestry price policy.  Wood is sold in
three different ways by the Directorate of Forest Exploitation within the
Ministry of Agriculture (DREF): (a) sales at fixed prices to the forest
population (preferential rates) and to public sector entities; (b) by
agreement, for small quantities that do not justify the organization of
auctions; and (c) by auction, both for stacked wood and tree stands. Sales at
fixed prices are made on the basis of a set schedule of rates (which also
determine the floor price for auctions), that has in the past been raised only
sporadically. These prices are not subject to any particular methodology of
calculation and are based on DREF judgment taking into account recent auction
results. Unlike agricultural commodities where an international reference
price could be used to set domestic prices and where deviations in quality can
be incorporated into the price setting formula, wood does not easily lend
itself to such a calculation: (a) there is no standard international reference
for much of Tunisian wood production; and (b) deviations from the norm, if
such a norm could be found, would be very high, since the actual price
received would depend on factors such as logging conditions (for auction sales
on stump), transport costs, and quality of the wood. For imported wood, a
complicated pricing system is in effect, whereby several duties and taxes
(3227E)



- 8 -
(customs duties ranging from 6.5% for mining timber to 32.5% for vereer
sheets, and higher still for processed products such as plywood, 1.ixury tax
for certain hardwood species, export promotion tax, custom formality tax) are
added to the CIF price. A fixed wholesaler margin is then added (varying from
20X to 30% for sawn timber depending on the species); as a result, the final
selling price of certain imported wood is considerably higher than the CIF
price (for example, the mark-up due to taxes and controlled margins is around
40X for certain sawlogs to over 1002 for certain hardwood species). For
primary wood products, such as those to be produced under the Project,
however, custom duties are about 15%. The level of duties facing such
products is consistent with the new reforms in trade policy being implemented
by Government through the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
(2781-TUN).
2.20     Raw cork production is sold in its entirety by the DREF to the
Societe Nationale du Liege (SNL), a parastatal. The SNL in turn cedes a third
of this cork to a private company according to the terms of a special
convention between the two entities. Raw cork prices are set administratively
by the DREF in consultation with the SNL, and typically cover only direct
exploitation costs. The SNL's high processing costs (due to an inefficient
and obsolete production process compounded by a high wage bill, which in turn
is the reoult of an employment-creation mandate) lead it to create
considerable downward pressure on prices in order to remain competitive with
international prices of processed cork. Both these companies are capable of
processing more cork than is available annually. The SNL exports around half
of its production whereas the private company exports practically its entire
production of processed cork. Selling raw cork by open auction at wh,ich both
the parastatal and the private company are allowed to participate, would
remove some of the distortions in pricing that are present in the existing
system.1,  Action would be taken under the Project to liberalize raw cork
prices (para. 6.10).
G. Management and Institutional Framework
2.21     The legislative base for forest management is contained in the Forest
Code, published in 1966, which covers the forestey regime, the management,
administration and protection of state forest and sand dunes that have been
reforested, esparto grass areas, state and communal grazing lands, forest
rights, policing of the forest, and sale of forest products, and hunting and
protected areas. This Code is based on temperate country forestry, concerned
mainly with quality timber production and the preservation of the forestry
estate. The presence of a rural population occupying this estate and
protecting their traditional rights is virtually ignored in the Code. Forest
management (which also tends to ignore this situation and the consequences of
uncontrolled cutting and grazing) has little chance of being implemented
adequately. The 1966 Code is presently being updated and improved. The new
Code recognizes the facts of occupation and use of the forest resources by the
rural population and ensures that the integration of the population and its
demands are understood by all concerned. In the absense of protective
measures against overgrazing and undue human pressure such as those foreseen
in the new Code, the successful implementation of certain project components
(reforestation, new plantations) could be jeopardized. The new Code was
approved by the Cabinet prior to negotiations and its promulgation is a
condition of loan effectiveness.
1/ See Annex 11, Appendix 1 for details on the raw cork market in Tunisia.
t  J.*  ' it.



- 9 -
2.22     Principal responsibility for implementing forestry policy, including
management of State or communal grazing lands and esparto grasslands, rests
with the Directorate of Forests (DF) of the Ministry of Agriculture. Since
January 1984, responsibility for soil erosion control and water catchment
protection has been vested in a new Directorate of Soil and Water Conservation
(DCES) within the same Ministry and, since October 1985, responsibility for
logging and timber sales has been assumed by a new Directorate of Forest
Exploitation (DREF). This reorganization has provided for increased
specialization in forest operations but has also weakened the coordination of
forest development activities and corrective measures are required (para.
5.02).
2.23     Each Governorate has a provincial Forest Service (arrondissement
forestier) and two Governorates (Bizerte and Jendouba) have two because of the
importance of the subsector in these Governorates. The forestry
administration in its entirety is still relatively understaffed for the tasks
assigned. In 1986, DF and DREF comprised 230 forest engineers and assistants,
230 senior or ordinary foresters and 74 administrative pe.rsonnel. Forest
laborers are trained at Remel Woodman's Trainir.g School and middle level
technicians are trained at the Tabarka Institute. Specialization in range
management and antidesertification techniques is provided in Tunisia at
Medenine but higher degrees have to be obtained abroad, usually in Morocco or
Europe.
2.24     The bulk of forest research is undertaken by the National Forest
Research Institute (INRF), Tunis, which was established in its present form in
1966. In the past, the INRF's research standards have been consistently good
and relevant to the country's needs but, since the end of a FAO/UNDP forestry
research program in 1976, it has suffered from acute shortages of staff and
funds. There is a need for better support for the INRF activities. The
Project would address this constraint (para. 4.18).
H. Investments in the Subsector
2.25     Total investments of the forestry and soil and water conservation
subsector (CES) and their comparison with the agriculture sector are indicated
below:
1962-1971     1972-76      1977-1981      1982-86    1987-199la/
Period                           IV Plan       V Plan       VI Plan      VII Plan
M DT    X     M DT  2       M DT    X      M DT  %    M DT    %
Forest & CES      68.8   25      22.3  9.5    43.8   7.5    100  6.5    115.0 5.8
Agriculture      272.0  100    235.1 100    584.0  100    1360.0 100  2000.0 100
a/ Projected.
These figures show that, after a period of important efforts (1962-74) during
which the percentage of the investment6 in the subsector were about 25% of the
entire agricultural sector, a drastic reduction took place to the low levels
of around 62. The reasons for this decline are that the Government considered
that the forestry operations carried out under the Plans have been
( 3227E)



- 10 -
ineffective. Certainly, production of wood has not kept pace with the
increasing demand, but the added responsibility since 1972 of the DF in
protection of watersheds and the vast grazing rangelands of the ceintry
without any significant increase in staff and a reduced budget, must have
contributed to this apparent poor performance.
2.26     The official analysis of the VI TH Development Plan has revealed
that the achievements are far from being unsatisfactory. In general, the
revised plantation program of DF achieved between 80 and 100% of the forecast
-- only the "permanent prairies" achieved less than 50% and this is attributed
to insufficient suitable plants, land tenure complexities, and limitations
imposed by various rural development statutes. The construction of new roads
achieved 70% of the forecast, and maintenance kept pace with the program.
Protection of the forests which includes the construction of fire-breaks and
insect control varied from 75 to 100% of the program. Sand dune fixation
achieved over 100% of the forecast. National park protection and management
can be considered unsatisfactory with only 45-68% of the forecasts achieved.
Improvement of the Esparto grasslands achieved 80% of the program. Some of
the problems associated with the poor performance in some sectors, can be
attributed to the readjustments made during the course of the VITH Plan.
Only 72% of the required budget was eventually available. Considerable waste
in planning can result from such significant reductions.
I. Development Objectives and Strategies
2.27     Consistent with the macroeconomic objective of improving the balance
of payments situation and alleviating the burden on the Government's budget,
the malui mid-term objective of the Government in the agricultural sector,
which includes the forestry subsector, is to promote greater efficiency and
economy in the increased production of agricultural products, which can
substitute for :ncreasing imports and lead to increasing exports, and in the
use of public resources in the sector, including enhancing the role of the
private sector in the provision of commercially viable sector support services.
2.28     The Government's medium-term agricultural sector adjustment program
(MTASAP), as described in the government policy letter discussed in the
context of the Tunisia ASAL-I (Loan 2754-TUN) includes specific actions to
address the sector constraints over a five-year period (1987-1991) and aims to
achieve its objectives by: (a) improving the prices and incentives framework
towards further deregulation or linkage to border prices; (b) reorienting the
public investment and expenditure program towards low cost, high priority,
quick maturing projects and programs with lower budgetary demands while
assuring adequate funding for maintenance of past investments; (c)
strengthening basic services in support of farmers, while privatizing those
government services which are commercially v4able, and improving cost recovery
in others; end (d) improving productivity of land use and management of the
country's forest and fisheries resources.
2.29     Strategies.  Specific forestry subsector strategies consistent with
the above overall sector strategy have also been developed by Government and
are described in the same letter. These strategies, which aim at guiding
project identification and preparation for the VIIth Plan, are: (a) to
increase the financial resources available for forest:y development to help
arrest losses of plant cover, and to mobilize better the subsector's
( 3227E)



- 11 -
productive potential, thereby reducing imports; (b) to give priority to the
establishment of forest nurseries; (c) to improve management of the natural
regeneration areas; (d) to mechanize exploitation and reforestation; and
(e) to improve subsector knowledge through inventories and studies.
J. Sector Constraints Relevant to the Project
2.30     The major constraints to implementing this policy for the development
of the forestry subsector are considered to be as follows:
(a) Social: In most natural forests, human pressure (manifested
primarily by overgrazing of domestic stock and illegal cutting of
fuel) is sufficient to prevent forest regeneration by natural seeding
and, in turn, arrest wood production, because the Forest Service will
not permit cutting mature trees if there is little hope of their
being regenerated. In 1986, some 750,000 m3 of wood (valued at
about US$15 million) that should have been cut in 1972-85 were still
standing in managed forests. The Project would address this
constraint by introducing a technically and economically viable
system of national forest regeneration (para. 4.08), by supporting
interventions to improve rangelands in the vicinity of natural
forests and plantations so as to reduce grazing pressure in
regeneration areas(para. 4.14) and by providing exploitation
equipment (para. 4.07). The enactment of the new Forestry Code
(para. 2.21) will provide the legislative basis to restrict grazing
rights and provide for the formation of grazing associations, and
activities to be implemented by the extension services will also
contribute to alleviating this constraint (para. 4.07).
(b) Ecological: Sites for fast-growing tree plantations are severely
limited by poor soils in the north and inadequate rainfall further
south; deep soil working and regular tending are essential for
fast-growing plantations in Tunisia. The Project would address this
constraint through the selection of suitable locations, adequate
provision for tending (para. 4.06), appropriate mechanized soil
preparation (para. 4.09), improvement of the seed collection and
forest nursery techniques (paras. 4.11, 4.12), and accent on genetic
studies and species trials in the research programs (para. 4.18).
(c) Financial: Shortage of funds and inadequacy of transport and other
equipment has been a major problem in forest exploitation,
afforestation, management and other forestry operationa. Th.e Project
by emphasizing investment leading to short-term revenues would help
rebuild financial resources. Thus, nationwide annual wood production
will be doubled by the third year of the Project (para. 4.07), new
sources of forest exploitation (thinning of coniferous plantations)
will be included (para. 4.07), and existing sources of revenue will
be expanded, e.g., by improving techniques of cork extraction through
training (para. 4.17), liberalizing auctions (para. 6.07), and by
development of existing timber resources through better exploitation
(para. 4.07). Production of forest nursery stock and its
distribution for public planting will also alleviate government costs
in national tree planting programs (paras. 4.11 and 4.12). The
setting up of an MIS for the Project and of appropriate accounts in
(3227Z)



- 12 -
DF and DREF (paras. 4.17 and 5.16) would also permit the
identification of inefficiencies in labor inputs and help Government
to establish separate budget lines for socially oriented programs.
(d)  Planning:  No complete national survey and inventory of forest and
pasture resources has ever been undertaken in Tunisia, and this
represents a substantial weakness in planning forest and livestock
management. This in turn has obvious implications on tiPe level of
funding made available, the understanding of the role of forest and
water conservation in agricultural production and of forestry as a
source of import substitution. The Project would address this
constraint through the preparation of the first national inventory of
forestry and pasture resources and of a plan for the utilization of
these resources (para. 4.15).
(e)  Institutional:  Three separate Directorates are now concerned with
forestry and soil conservation and a coordinating body is needed.
Cooperation of local people is essential to assure forest
regeneration and conservation, and development of extension and
training are urgently required. The establishment of a network of
biological reserves and national parks is needed for educational,
scientific and conservation purposes and to support Tunisia's tourist
industry. Forest research needs to be strengthened to provide the
necessary teclhnical support to forestry and pastureland development.
Staff is not sufficiently knowledgeable on modern techniques of
forest exploitation and management, and training is required. The
Project would address this constraint through (i) t.he setting up of a
Coordination Committee (para. 5.02); (ii) the development of
extension activities (paras. 4.07 and 5.04); (iii) initiation of
environmental extension training in national forest management and
improvement of wildlife surveillance (pNra. 4.16); and (iv) provision
of equipment and training for forestry research exploitacion and
management purposes (paras. 4.17 and 4.18).
(f)  Quality of Produce:  Insufficient and outdated methods and techniques
of exploitation lead in general to low quality produce which
introduces constraints in its utilization possibilities and decreases
its value. Typical examples are the need to cut long logs to permit
their transportation on mule back and irregular cork boards which
result from inadequate extraction techniques. The Project addresses
this issue through training exploitation staff (para. 4.17) and the
provision of exploitation equipment and improvement of access to the
forest (para. 4.07).
III. BANK LENDING IN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
AND PAST PERFORMANCE
3.01     The overall objective of Bank lending is to emphasize projects which
have a direct and rapid impact on production, employment and exports (or import
savings) and which minimize government net contributions. The focus of lending
for agriculture meets this objective.
C 3Z27)E



- 13 -
3.02     Bank group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967, and to
date 17 projects have been approved for a total of US$407.9 million of
Bank/IDA funds. Of these, eight are ongoing. Performance under these
projects has been mixed, reflecting the institutional constraints in the
sector. The First Fisheries Project (Cr. 270-TUN) was completed at the end of
1979, and the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) identified cost overruns
and low loan recoveries for boats as major problems. These problems were
addressed under the Second Fisheries Project (Ln. 1746-TUN), but recoveries
remain a problem. The First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects (Ln./Cr.
779/264-TUN and Ln. 1340-TUN) financed lending by the National Bank of Tunisia
(BNT) for on-farm development. While the projects achieved good rates of
return, the continuing problem of higher interest rates on Bank funds compared
to government-supplied credit and the lack of profitability of agricultural
credit operations, as highlighted in the PPARs for these projects, caused
disbursements to be slower than anticipated. The Third Agricultural Credit
Project (Ln. 1885-TUN) is addressing priority credit problems including the
level of interest rates and recoveries. Action has been taken to decentralize
BNT's operations, raise interest rates, and encourage improved recoveries.
The physical implementation of the poverty-oriented Northwest Rural
Development Project (Ln. 1997-TUN) is proceeding satisfactorily.  The Grain
Storage Project (Ln. 2052-TUN) is also progressing well after initial delays
and the recruitment of new consulting engineers and chartered accountants.
Under the Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 2197-TUN), strategies have been or
are being developed for several sub-sectors including forestry, farm input
distribution, farm mechanization, produce marketing, research and extension,
and improved operation and maintenance of existing irrigation infrastructure.
These strategies have contributed to the design of the proposed operation.
Implementation of the irrigation projects -- First IrriRation Rehabilitation
Project (Ln. 1068-TUN), Sidi Salem Project (Ln. 1431-TUN), Southern Irrigation
Project (Ln. 2157-TUN), Central Tunisia Irrigation Project (Ln. 2234-TUN), and
the recently started Gabes Irrigation Pruject (Ln. 2605-TUN) -- has generally
been satisfactory and on schedule. The PPAR for the First Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project also found that the increased reliability of water
supply brought about by rehabilitation works carried out under the project had
a major impact on farm production and incomes in the project area by increasing
farmers' willingness to take higher risks by planting higher value crops. The
Northwest Agricultural Production Project (Ln. 2502-TUN) will help alleviate
the constraints to increased production of cereals and livestock in Northwest
Tunisia, inter alia by introducing an extension system based on the Training
and Visit (T&V) system. Partly to avoid the necessity for future
rehabilitation projects caused by lack of maintenance, the Irri ation
Management Improvement Project (Ln. 2573-TUN) is designed to support nationwide
improvements of the operation and maintenance of existing irrigation systems as
well as policy and institutional reforms to increase the efficiency and self-
financing of the irrigation development agencies (OMNVs). The First
Agriculture Sector Adiustment Loan (Loan No. 2754-TUN) made a good start and
was declared effective in Noveniber 1986. Acti3n plans are currently being
prepared to meet the conditions of second tranche release which is scheduled
for August 1987 and fulfill the obligations under the sector policy letter.
3.03     Lessons learned from the above projects have been incorporated in the
design of the proposed Project, namely the advantages of setting up a
centralized management unit responsible for project coordination and
monitoring, of creating a revolving fund, and of being more conservative in
( 3227E)



- 14 -
the pace of implementation and of loan distursement to take particularly into
account the lack of experience of the executing agencies in dealing with
Bank-financed projects.
[V. THE PROJECT
A. Context and Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01     Context.  The Bank has been working closely with the Government in
reviewing past agricultural expenditure policies and has agreed on the
strategy for investments under the Seventh Development Plan, with particular
focus on the adjustments needed to maintain growth and to reduce the sector
trade deficit. The improved management of forestry resources is an integral
part of this program. Overall, in the agricultural sector, including
forestry, it has been agreed that new projects should comply with the
following selection criteria: (a) EER higher than 10%; (b) positive impact on
the agricultural trade balance; (c) creation of jobs at low cost; (d) reduced
government participation in costs; and (e) favorable impact on less developed
areas. While the proposed Project would be in line with these selection
criteria, in order to ensure overall consistency of all subsector investments
with the agreed investment criteria, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Government would undertake that any major new investments in the forestry
sector separate from the Project would also be selected in accordance with
those criteria. In line with the Agricultural Development Policy Letter and
of the strategy discussed for the subsector in the MTASAP (para. 2.28), some
new policy measures have been taken to support the forestry subsector. Thus
prices of wood sold directly to the general public were increased in July
1985; these increases were also reflected in the floor prices for wood sold by
auction (para. 2.19). With the exception of chipwood, most sales of wood for
commercial purposes are through open auctions at which any licensed wood
trader may participate.  "he Forestry Code is being revised. -Proposals for
research and extension are being pursued under other initiatives. Within the
agreed Tunisia ASAL-I timetable of key actions for the MTASAP attached to the
government letter, Government has prepared a plan to implement new forestry
development. In particular, a launching program to assure the regeneration of
approximately 3,000 ha/year of forest has been prepared. In addition,
increased funds would be available for forestry development and water and soil
conservation operations and prices of cork are expected to be liberalized.
B. General Descriptioai and Components
4.02     The Project represents the core (about 80X) of Tunisia's investment
program in Forestry for the Seventh Development Plan and it takes into account
DF's plan under the medium-term adjustment program to ensure regeneration of
3,000 ha of natural forest each year to permit increased production. In
accordance with government policy, private participation in forestry
development will be expanded, whilst ensuring that the appropriate government
directorates have adequate means of organizing and supervising these
operations.
4.03     Rationale and Objectives.  While the broad lines of sector policy
reform have been identified through the ASAL, a forestry development project
would both strengthen our on-going sector dialogue and provide the essential
mechanism to develop, implement and monitor the detailed technical and



- 15 -
managerial innovations needed to achieve the full benefit of the agreed
reorientation in subsector expenditures. The Bank's involvement would also
facilitate the transfer of similar experience gained in other Mediterranean
countries.
4.04     In light of the above, project objectives are to improve the cost
effectiveness of a restructured forest resource development and management
program which would help to: (a) increase fuelwood and industrial wood
production; (b) improve forest grasslands and range management to compensate
for grazing lost due to closing of forest lands for natural regeneration and
planting; (c) reduce soil erosion and increase water retention to protect
productivity of agricultural lands; and (d) preserve and expand the country's
nature and wildlife heritage and thus complement the country's cultural and
recreational facilities.
4.05     The Project would have five main components:
(a) Forest Exploitation and Regeneration:
-  Thinning of about 50,000 ha of existing conifer plantations over
15 years old;
-  Exploitation and regeneration of about 21,000 ha of natural forest;
-  Provision of exploitation equipment to the DREF;
-  Promotion of the role of the private sector in forest exploitation;
(b) Forest Plantations and Private Tree Planting:
-  Establishment of about 8,000 ha of fast-growing forest plantations
in three blocks, by mechanized techniques;
-  Establishment of about 2,600 ha of linear plantations along the
edges of rivers;
-  Expansion of seedling sales to private sector through the
improvement of seed collection and increasing plant production in
six forest nurseries that are primarily concerned with plant sales
to the public;
(c) Intensified Forest Management: - to address 6,600 ha of highly
degraded forest areas through:
- Construction of buildings, fire towers, roads and firebreaks,
boundary marking and electrification;
- Provision of transport, fire fighting and communication equipment;
(d) Forest Pasture and Range Improvement. This component is
complementary to the natural forest exploitation and mechanized
fast-growing plantations and will include:
-  Establishment of permanent pastures over about 700 ha in humid and
sub-humid areas;
-  Establishment of permanent pastures over about 400 ha in semi-arid
areas;
-  Establishment of improved natural pastures, within forest areas
over about 2,300 ha;
(e) Institutional Development and Support:
- Preparation of a national inventory of forest and pasture
resources and of a plan for development of forest resources, based
on satellite imagery (120,000 km2) and aerial photography
(40,000 kM2);
(3227E)



- 16 -
- Improvement of national park management, environmental educational
facilities and nature conservation;
-  Provision of technical assistance in project management and
evaluation, accounts, forest inventory, research, conservation and
training in Tunisia and abroad in forest and range development
related matters;
- Provision of equipment to DF and DREF headquarters and to forest
related research and educational forest organizations.
C. Detaled Features
4.06     Forest Exploitation and Regeneration.  To maintain the health of
forests and for economic management, approximately 25,500 ha of natural oak
and pine forest, with a standing volume of some 743,400 m3 of wood, should
have been felled and regenerated during the past 15 years. It has not been
because assurance of regeneration under the existing conditions of extremely
high pressure of humans and their livestock has not been possible. With the
promulgation of the revised Forestry Code, the legislative basis will now be
available to allow adequate protection of newly planted forests so that
improved regeneration techniques can now be applied.
4.07     The forest exploitation component will effectively double national
wood production, to approximately 260,000 m3/year, by the third year of the
Project. Production will have three principal sources: (a) a continuation of
the normal forest exploitation program, which in recent years has produced
about 130,000 m3/year from initial natural regeneration fellings and
thinnings, primarily in natural forest; (b) introduction of a supplementary
final regeneration fellings in approximately 3,000 ha/year; and (c)
introduction of a further supplementary program, which should produce around
40,000 m3/year from thinnings of coniferous forest plantations over 15 years
old in approximately 7,000 ha/year. Natural forest production will comprise
softwood (coniferous species) and hardwood (broadleaved species) and be
restricted to ten forest arrondissements in the north and west (Bizerte,
Sedjenane, Beja, Ain Draham, Jendouba, Le Kef, Kasserine, Nabeul, Zaghouan and
Siliana). Plantation thinnings will produce softwood only in these same
arrondissements plus Tunis, Ariana and Ben Arous, in the vicinity of the
capital. The Project will increase the percentage of mechanization in
government exploitation operations (DREF) from 30% to 70% in natural forest by
the final year and, through training and demonstration, would aim to increase
mechanization in private exploitation to 30X. However, the degree of
mechanization in forest exploitation would be low. The Project would provide
essentially chainsaws, small tractors and implements and it is assumed that
the fuel wood would continue to be exploited by hand (see Annex 3). By the
end of the proiect period it will aim to raise private exploitation from 40%
to 60% in natural forest and from 60% to 752 in forest plantations. Although
the Project expects to raise the proportion of higher value wood produced
(e.g., sawlogs, mining timber) through improved marketing, fuelwood production
will still be increased by at least 502 and it is planned that DF extension
services would promote the introduction of improve,l charcoal production
techniques, which should double the conversion efficiency of traditional
methods.
4.08     The forest regeneration subcomponent will support national measures
to regulate utilization of the forest resource by introducing an improved
system of regeneratioti in some 21,500 ha of oak and pine forest in the
(3227E)



- 17 -
arrondissements of Ain Draham and Jendouba (oak) and Le Kef and Kasserine
(pine). Most regeneration will be natural (seeding, coppice and root suckers)
supplemented by direct seeding from selected seed trees within the area to
improve tree form. The program is shown below.
NATURAL OAK AND PINE FOREST: ASSISTED REGENERATION PROGRAM (ha)
Forest Total
Type    Area   Year 1 Year 2 Year 3  Year 4  Year 5 Year 6  Year 7
Cork oak   3,200       -     450     550     550      550     550     550
Zeen oak   4,300       -     550     750      750     750     750     750
Aleppo
pine     14,000  2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000
TOTAL     21,500   2,000       3,000   3.300   3,300    3,300   3,300   3,300
4.09     Forest Plantation.  The Project will finance some 8,000 ha of
fast-growing mechanized forest plantations in degraded scrubland in the
Sedjenane, Nefza and Tegma districts. It will involve mechanized land
preparation (stumping and ripping or ploughing) and subsequent weeding, which
is expected to be undertaken by private contractors with the supervision of
the Forest Services, and manual tree planting by the Forest Services or
contractors, using plants produced in Forest Service nurseries. In spite of
the relatively capital-intensive nature of works to be carried out, this
component will generate considerable additional employment (para. 7.02).
Roads and firebreaks will be constructed during the course of land
preparation. The principal species to be planted will be pines (at least 70%)
and Eucalyptus, Acacia and other broadleaved species. The program is shown
below.
FAST-GROWING MECHANIZED FOREST PLANTATIONS: PLANTING PROGRAM (ha)
Total
District    Area   Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7
Sedjenane:
low maquis   2,200    -       800     800     600        -
high maquis  2,400    -         -     200     700   1,500        -       -
Nefza         2,700    -         -       -       -        -   1,300   1,400
Tegma           800        -    200    300     300   _
TOTAL       8,100    -    1,000   1,300   1,600   1,500   1,300   1,400
(3227E)



- 18 -
4.10     The Project will also finance approximately 2,600 ha of fast-growing
riverain forest plantations, to be established by local Forest Services in the
approximately 30-m wide government reserves at the edges of the principal
rivers and their tributaries in the Beja and Jendouba Governorates. Selected
poplar clones will be planted at wide spacing (5 m minimum) at the water's
edge followed by eucalyptus and Acacia cyanophylla. The trees will not only
provide wood but will also fix the river banks and provide forage for grazing
animals and windbreaks for adjacent agricultural crops. The program is shown
below.
FAST-GROWING RIVERAIN PLANTATIONS: PLANTING PROGRAM (ha)
Total
Species     Area   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7
Poplar       1,000      -      100      150     150     200      200     200
Eucalyptus/
Acacia       1,600      -      100      250     300     300      350     300
TOTAL        2,600      -      200     400      450     500      552     500
4.11     Tree seedling sales (comprising trees and forage shrubs) to private
individuals have risen from 2.8 million in 1981/82 to 8.0 million in 1985/86
and is expected to continue to rise at an increasing rate during the next five
years under the DF Private Tree Planting Program. New irrigation systems,
transport and tocls will be provided to six forest nurseries, in the
arrondissements of Tunis, Ben Arous, Ariana, Bizerte, Kasserine and Gafsa,
that play a major role in public sales and whose production will be doubled by
year 3 of the Project and could be increased several times over without
further extension of the nursery area. Five other forest nurseries that are
much involved in public sales, in the Bizerte, Sedjenane, Beja, Ain Draham and
Jendouba arrondissements, will be similarly improved under the forest
plantation components. They include two poplar nurseries.
4.12     To enhance forest production, much greater effort must be devoted to
improved seed collection from selected trees. Ten sets of tree climbing
equipment will, therefore, be procured under the Project for use by the staff
of the Tree Seed Center, in Tunis, and the arrondissements. Two small trucks
will also be allocated to the Center for tree seed collection and
distribution.
4.13     The Intensified Forest Management component will re-establish the
DF's direction in the management of 6,600 ha of two degraded forest districts
at El Feidja, a cork oak forest area in Jendouba arrondissement, and at Oum
Djeddour, an Aleppo pine forest in Kasserine arrondissement. It provides for
redeployment of staff (including creation of seven auxilliary posts),
construction and rehabilitation of housing and roads, transport, installation
of electricity, boundary marking, improvement of fire prevention and control,
and re-establishing constructive communication between forest staff and local
people.



- 19 -
4.14     The Forest Pasture and Range Improvement component would provide f,r
production of forage to replace that to be lost by the closing of forest areas
to grazing to allow for natural regeneration or reforestation. The Project
would finance: (a) the establishment of permanent pastures over about 700 ha
(rainfall above 900 mm/year) with intensive soil preparatio.l, relatively high
levels of fertilizer and seeding of a mixture of grass and legume seed from
varieties with high production potential, and over about 400 ha (rainfall
below 900 mm/year), with minimum soil preparation, low level of fertilizer and
seeding of a mixture of grass and legume seed from varieties adapted to
semi-arid conditions which have reduced productive potential, the improvement
of 2,180 ha of improved natural rangeland, the seeding of 165 ha of acacia and
planting 200 ha of cactus (see details in Annex 7); (b) four vehicles for
central office staff, six pick-up trucks for field staff, and six tractors and
corresponding implements for transport of inputs and pasture maintenance; and
(c) training of central office and field staff, Et Asion of consultant
services for technical assistance, and of applied research studies or related
subject matters. The objective would be achieved through:
(a) determination of the most effective, least cost systems for producing
the required forage;
(b) study and establishment of appropriate forage management systems;
(c)  identification and strengthening of producer groups which could
assume responsibility for pasture and range management and through
group action improve livestock production and marketing;
(d) strengthening the DF department for range management in order to
improve its ability to implement the component; and
(e) establishing applied research activities.
4.15     Under the Forest Inventory subcomponent the DF would carry out a full
national forest and pastureland inventory, establish the basis for its
periodical updating, and prepare the Tunisian comprehensive Development Plan
of Forestry Resources. The Project would provide for consultant services
(about 100 man-months) to assist a special unit in DF (para. 5.05) in
preparing such inventory and plan. The DF has already part of the required
counterpart personnel who have been trained abroad in inventory techniques.
Additional training is provided by the Project both abroad (para. 4.17) and
on-the-job. The inventory would be based on geometrically corrected satellite
images at a scale of 1:50,000 and on about 40,000 km2 of panchromatic aerial
photos at a scale of 1:20,000. The satellite images maps will be used for
vegetation interpretation, classification and statification, inventory map
system and statistical survey. The aerial photos will be used as a complement
in areas where stereo interpretation is required and where large-scale texture
information is of great importance. The system would be designed using a
continuous updating scheme. Maps would be produced by a computer-aided system
at the scale 1:50,000, but 1:25,000 maps would also be produced in specific
forest areas covering about 33,000 km2. The Project would provide funds for
the purchase of transportation equipment for the field teams and interpreta-
tion, cartographic and analysis equipment. The National Development for
Forestry Resources would start to be prepared as soon as enough inventory data
(3227E)



- 20 -
would be available and would address in particular the issue of production and
use of fuelwood in rural areas in the general context of use of renewable
energies. It would contain, inter alia, areas to be preserved and exploited,
forestry management strategy and programs, assessment of wood production,
reforestation and regeneration.
4.16     The project's Nature Conservation subcomponent will establish and
equip a mobile environmental extension unit in the Directorate of Forests that
will permit public environmental education on a national scale and, inter
alia, suppoi-t Tunisian efforts in protecting eight world-threatened
vertebrates."' It will provide vehicles and equipment for Tunisie's three
mainland national parks (including the means of preventing depredations of
wild pig in adjacent agricultural areas), equipment for animal population
counts in the northern region and transport for the principal wildlife
officers in the southern and central regions of the country.
4.17     The Technical Assistance and Training subcomponent of the Project
would provide consultant services" and a program of training in Tunisia
(para. 3.11) and training abroad. Consultant services will be required to
cover matters for which DF and DREF lack experience and skills to implement
the Project satisfactorily. About 43 man-months would be provided in subject
matters related to nurseries, cork exploitation, range development and pasture
establishment, communication and extension, and in research themes such as
genetics and biometrices. The Project Management Unit (PMU) would also be
assisted in setting up a pro:ect MIS system which would provide for improved
physical and financial control of DF and DREF operations, including a project
analytical cost accounting system. Terms of reference and qualifications of
these consultants are included in Annex 10. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that this MIS system would be fully operational by December 31,
1988. Training needs have also been identified and quantified. In addition,
the above Annex describes the program for training in Tunisia of about 230
agents for a total of 750 man-months. The largest part (185 agents for 555
man-months) will be held in the Job Training Center of Remel for which the
Project provides additional training equipment. Training would cover
maintenance of exploitation machinery, field group leadership and charcoal
production techniques. Training facilities in the country are, however, not
sufficiently equipped or capable of training in all aspects required by the
Project and therefore, some training abroad is required. This would take the
form of scholarships, training courses or study visits for a total of about
100 man-months. The themes and anticipated number of participants are
described in Annex 10.
4.18     Under the Institutional Support subcomponent, the Project would
provide funds to strengthen those research and training institutions which are
most directly related to the project objective and activities. Key research
themes have been defired (silviculture, forest utilization, economy and
protection, rangeland development) and the Project would provide the
transport, field and labora'-ory equipment for the INRF in order to implement
the research program in direct support of the project initatives (Annex 9).
No later than December 31, 1988, a protocol would be signed between DF and the
1/ See Annex 8 for details.
2/ Consultant services for the preparation of the inventory are described in
para. 4.15.
(3227E)



- 21 -
INRF to define the arrangement for this applied research support. Similarly,
keeping in mind the important role played by the Remel Training Center (CFPR)
in training staff for forest exploitation, this center will also be provided
with training equipment. Government would ensure that the CFPR would provide
the project training needs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
protocol with INRF would be signed and that the CFPR would ensure the
preparation and implementation of a training program no later than December
31, 1988. The Project would also finance vehicles and office equipment for
the DF and DREF to provide adequate liaison between the headquarters and the
field and to help the PMU to fulfill its obligations.
D. Start-Up Activities and Status of Design
4.19     Start-up Activities.  The Project is scheduled to start in early
1988, howeve.., some preliminary activities have already started in 1987.
These relate to the preparation of the forest inventory and of the plan for
utilization of forestry resources. To permit the use of this information in
the preparation of the VIII Development Plan (1992-97) and in order to
expedite the project implementation program, satellite imagery and aerial
photos will be taken in 1987 during the appropriate season. The Loan would
provide up to US$1 million under retroactive financing for these activities.
Consultations would also be made to recruit the technical assistance team to
help the DF in preparing the inventory and the plan.
4.20     Status of Desi_n.  All areas for executing project works have been
fully identified and availability of land required is assur6d. Standard
architectural plans and specifications are available for most project
buildings and constructions. Technical specifications for specialized
equipment to make maps for the inventory would be prepared by the consultants
assisting in the preparation of the inventory. Tender documents for the
execution of soil preparation for new plantations already exist in other
departments of the MOA. However, the particulars of the equipment and
methodology proposed to execute the works (Annex 4) require the assistance of
an expert also provided by the Project. Reference bidding documents for the
purchase of equipment previously approved by the Bank for other projects in
Tunisia also exist. Some particular technical specifications for exploitation
equipment are given in Annex 3.
F. Costs
4.21     Over the seven-year implementation period (1988-1994), the total
project cost of the Project is estimated to be US$50.2 million (D 40.8
million) with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$20 million (D 16.3
million) or 40X of the total project cost. The cost estimate includes taxes
and duties, totalling US$10.6 million (D 8.6 million) or 212 of total project
costs. Project costs are summarized in the following table and shown by year
in Table 1 and by summary account in Table 2.
(3227E)



- 22 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local    Foreign       Total         Local      Foreign    Total    X For.   X Total
Cost     Cost          Cost          Cost       Cost        Cost      Exchange Base Cost
--       (D000) -         --         ----      (USS$000)--------
Forest Exploitation
Regeneration of
natural forest             2,357.5    2,110.5    4.468.0         2,899.7    2.596.0    5,495.7         47         14
Forest exploitation          1,308.0    1,520.0    2.828.0        1,608.8    1,869.7    3,476.5          54         9
Operating costs             2-845.3 . I   L1.D       3L,8iiL3     3,492.7    1.243.5    4.743.2          26        12
Subtotal                  6,510.8    4,641.4   11,152.3         8,008.4    5,709.0   13,717.4         42        36
Forest Plantations
Mechanized plantations    4,878.9    3,401.7    8,280.6           6,001.0    4,184.2   10,18S.2          41        26
Riverain plantations         1,S01.2       836.8    2,418.0       1,944.9    1,029.2    2,974.1          35         8
Operating costs                360.J       29-.5       659.4        443.9        367.3      811.2        45         2
Subtotal                  6,821.0    4,537.0   11,358.0         8,390.0    5,580.5   13,970.5         40        36
Forest Range Improvement
Pastures                       489.2       331.3       820.5        601.7       407.5    1,009.2         40         3
Vehicles and equipment         105.2       107.2       212.4        129.4       131.9        261.3       50         1
Opersting costs                309.0       I55.0        464.0       380.0        190.7    _.7,           33         1
Subtotal                    903.4       693.5    1,496.9        1,111.1       730.1     1,841.2       40         S
Forest Mnagemeal
Vehicles & equip.              125.6       140.9       266.3        154.2       173.3        327.5       53         1
Works                          270.5       241.0       511.5        332.7       296.4        629.1       47         2
Operating costs                17S.3       ]JjJ        Z92.2        215ZLZ      143J A                   40         1
Subtotal                    511.2       498.8    1,070.0          702.6       613.5    1,316.1        47          3
Institutional Qevelogaont
Forest inventory               735.5    1,455.9    2,191.4          904.7    1,790.8    2,695.5          67         7
Nature conservation            384.7       436.9       821.6        473.2       537.4    1,010.6         53         3
Seed collect. & nurseries   265.0          379.7       644.7        326.0       466.9       792.9        59         3
Techn. asst. and training   131.5          479.1       610.6        161.7       589.3       751.0       78          2
Institutional support         254.8        269.0       523.8        313.4       330.9       644.3       51         2
Operating costs              __ZLD       _-0    LjU13.0             969.2    .91.9    1.86L,1            48         5
Subtotal                  2,559.5    3,745.6    6,305.1         3,148.2    4,607.2    7,755.4         59        20
Total Base Costs              17,366.0   14,016.3   31,382.2    21,360.4   17,240.2   38,600.5             45       100
Physical contingencies         1,273.7    1,125.0    1,125.0        1,566.7    1,383.7    2,950.4          47         8
Price contingencies            5,911.1     1,426.4    7.037.5       7,270.7    1,385.8    8,656.3          16        22
Total Project Costs        24,550.6   16,267.7   40,818.5    30,197.8   20,009.4   50,207.2             40       130
4.22        Base costs expressed  in June  1987 prices were derived  from recent
contracts, market surveys and best assessment of actual costs for works
executed under force account by the DF, DREF and other government
departments.   Physical  contingencies have been allowed  in general  rt  the rate
of 101. No physical contingenc, allowance was provided for operating costs,
studies, technical assistance and training. Price contingencies have been
calculated on the basis of the following annual percentage rates applied to
local and foreign costs, including physical contingencies, as follows:
1987       1988       1989       1990    1991-1994
Local  costs           8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0           8.0
Foreign costs          3.0        1.0        1.0        1.0           3.5
( )2Z27E



- 23 -
F. Financing
4.23     A Bank loan of US$20 million to the Government of Tunisia is proposed
to finance 100% of the foreign exchange component of the Project, including
the foreign exchange component of incremental operating costs. The balance of
funds required would be financed by the Government. The Bank loan would cover
40% of project costs (51% of project costs net of taxes). The project costs
would be shared in the following amounts and proportions:
Local   Foreign   Total      % of Net
--(US$ M Equivalent)---   Project Costs
World Bank                         -        20.0      20.0         51
Government                        19.6       -        19.6        49
Net project costs             19.6      20.0      39.6       100
Taxes and duties             10.6        -        10.6        27
Total project costs          30.2       20.0      50.2       127
4.24     The proposed Bank loan would be for 17 years including four years of
grace. US$16.6 million would be included in the DF and US$3.4 million in the
DREF annual budgets respectively. Government would finance the remaining
project costs (US$30.2 million). The loan proceeds would retroactively
finance up to $1 million for the purchase of satellite imagery. An estimate
of the annual budget allocations between DF and DREF is given in the table
below:
ESTIMATED BUDGET ALLOCATIONS OF PROJECT COST
_F                    DREf                     Total
Local    FE      Total   Local   FE    Total   Local       FE    Total
1988   2,132.9 3.021.0 5,153.9   454.3  373.1  827.4  2,587.2  3,394.1  5,981.3
1989   2o050.5 2,002.3 4,052.8   6S4.3  378.3 1,032.6  2,704.8  2,380.6  5,085.4
1990   2,342.2 1.620.3 3,962.5   832.7  412.4 1,245.1   3,174.9  2,032.7  5,207.6
1991   2,672.7 1.596.1 4,268.8   767.2  372.1 1,139.3  3,439.9  1.968.2  5,408.1
1992   3,024.7 1,570.9 4,595.6   853.3  472.2 1,325.5   3,878.0  2,043.1  5,921.1
1993   3,S80.7 2.071.4 5,652.1   816.1  416.9 1.233.0  4,396.8  2,488.3  6,885.1
1994   3,135.2 1,639.4 4,774.6  1,234.0  321.3 1,555.3  4,369.2  1,960.7  6,329.9
Total 18,938.9 13,521.4 32,460.3  5,611.9 2,746.3 8,358.2  24,550.8 16,267.7 40.818.5
F. Procurement
4.25     Procurement would be centralized and carried out by DF and
procurement arrangements are summarized in the foilowing table.
( 3227E)



- 24 -
-Method--
Project Element                ICB          LCB          Other        NA     Total Cost
---------…(US$ million)----------
Roads (exploitation)        -  (-)    2.0    (1.0)   0.9  (0.5)  -   (-)    2.9 (1.5)
Buildings and minor works  -  (-)    0.5    (0.2)   0.1  (0.1)  -   (-)    0.6 (0.3)
Seeding, planting           -  (-)    8.0    (3.0)   3.5  (1.5)  -   ()   11.5 (4.5)
Tending                     -  (-)    1.0    (0.5)   5.3  (2.0)  -   t-)    6.3 (2.5)
Soil preparation           6.3 (2.5)  0.3    (0.1)   0.1  (0.1)  -   (-)    6.7 (2.7)
Satellite and aerial
photos                    1.0 (0.7)  -        (-)     0.3  (0.3)  -   (-)    1.3 (1.0)
Vehicles                   2.1 (1.4)  1.0    (0.7)   -       -      -   (-)    3.1 (2.1)
Tractors and implements   1.1 (0.9)  0.4    (0.3)   0.3  (0.2)  -   (-)    1.8 (1.4)
Other equipment             -  (-)    2.7    (1.9)   0.8  (0.5)  -   ( )    3.5 (2.4)
Technical assist.
& training                -   (-)    -        (-)     2.0  (1.6)  -   (-)    2.0 (1.6)
Incremental staff and other
operating costs            -              -           -     -    10.5 (-)   10.5 (-)
Total                     10.5 (5.5) 15.9    (7.7)  13.3  (6.8)10.5  (-)   50.2(20.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
4.26     Items procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be
in accordance with Bank guidelines published in May 1985. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference equal to 15% of CIF bid
price of the imported goods or the actual custom duties and import taxes
whichever are lower.  Items to be procured by ICB include land clearing, soil
preparation, construction of roads and firebreaks for mechanized fast-growing
plantations estimated at US$6.3 million. The size of contracts is likely to
attract foreign competition most partitularly in joint ventures with local
earthmoving firms to which they would bring the know-how and experience. ICB
would also be used for the supply of aerial photos (US$1 million), vehicles
(US$2.1 million), and tractors and implements (US$1.1 million).
4.27     Local Competitive Bidding procedures in Tunisia are generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
Project. However, assurances were obtained at negotiations that no margin of
preference would be granted to local manufacturers, all bidders would be
treated equally (particularly in the provision of securities) and bid opening
would be public. The major international makes are well represented in
Tunisia and LCB is an adequate procedure for procuring minor machinery, tools
and miscellaneous equipment. With the exception of the soil preparation and
related works for mechanized plantations, LCB would be widely used for other
works such as the construction of buildings, tanks, fire towers, and other
works (US$0.5 million), construction and rehabilitation of roads of existing
forest access and exploitation (US$2 million), part of seeding, planting and
tending operations (US$9 million) and miscellaneous soil preparation (US$0.3
million). Equipment and vehicles costing US$150,000 equivalent or less would
also be procured under LCB provided the aggregate cost of all vehicles and
equipment so awarded would not exceed US$4.5 million.
(3227E)



- 25 -
4.28     Other Procedures.  Both DF and DREF are experienced in executing
works and constructions on Force Account. Accounting control of the execution
of force account works under standard government procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank, will be improved with the help of technical assistance
(para. 4.17). This arrangement would give additional assurances of full
compliancy with the Bank SOE procedures requirements. Force account would be
used for seeding, planting (US$3.5 million) and tending operations (US$5.3
mill-on), as well as for some roads and small dispersed works (US$1 million),
with prior approval of the Bank. Goods readily available off-the-shelf, such
as office equipment or specialized items of small value (US$0.8 million),
would be procured through Local Shopping based on at least three price
quotations. Specialized items such as satellite images (US$0.3 million) will
be subject to Internationel Shopping from the few available suppliers.
4.29     Consultants for technical assistance (US$1.7 million) with
qualifications, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank,
would be appointed following Bank guidelines on the use of consultants
published in August 1981.
4.30     Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$1 million or more and bidding packages for goods costing
the equivalent of US$300,000 or more would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 75% of
the total estimated value of contracts for both goods and works. The balance
of contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract
award. The first bidding document for works or goods below those limiLs would
also be reviewed prior to the start of the bidding. Assurance that the above
procedures would be followed were obtained at negotiations.
H. Disbursements
4.31     The disbursement profile for EMENA Agriculture and for Tunisia
Specific Investment Loans show that full disbursement has taken an average of
ten and eleven years after Board Presentation date respectively. For the two
specific investments in agriculture projects completed in Tunisia in the past
(Loans 1068 and 1431-TUN) full disbursement was attained after nine years and
Loan 1796 (project already completed) will be disbursed in eight years. Other
on-going projects in the sector show a good pace of implementation and
disbursements have mainly been affected by the increasing value of the dollar
compared to appraisal estimates. In the case of the present Project, full
disbursement has been assumed to take place over nine years according to a
profile very similar to the Tunisia Sector Investment and Maintenance Loans.
This is a conservative estimate that takes into consideration: (a) allowance
for an initial delay for preparation and launching of the Project; (b) an
allowance for a delay at the end of the Project due to unexpected factors and
to lack of experience of the executing agencies in implementing Bank projects;
and (c) an allowance of one and a half years to finalize disbursemc t after
project completion. Table 3 indicates the expected schedule of disoursements
and compares it with the other referred profiles.
4.32     Disbursements would be made after receipt of full documentation,
except in the case of works on force account and goods and services provided
under contracts valued below US$100,000 equivalent for which disbursements
would be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOE). The SOE
would be certified by the project implementating agency inieurring the
( 3227E)



- 26 -
expenditure. Supporting documentation would be retained by the implementing
agency and made available for inspection during Bank supervision missions and
by external auditors. No separate reimbursement application for less than
US$20,000 would be accepted for direct payments. Disbursement categories,
amounts allocated and the share of expenditures to be financed would be as          *
follows:
Category                             Amount of       X of Expenditure to
Loan Allocated   be Financed
(US$ million)
1.  Works, buildings, roads              2.4    502 of local and 100% of foreign
expenditures
2. Plantations, soil preparation,
seeding and tending                7.1    402 of local and 100% of foreign
expenditures
3.  Equipment, vehicles and              6.0    70% of local and 100% of foreign
materials                                   expenditures
4.  Consultants and training             1.4    100% of total expenditures
5.  Unallocated                          3.1
Total                         20.0
4.33     To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the Project, the
Bank would deposit after loan effectiveness an initial sum up to US$2 million
to set up a revolving fund to finance eligible expenditures corresponding to
the Bank's share of four months' project needs. Bank funds would be deposited
in US dollars in a special account at the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) and
would be channelled as needed to the Project through the Banque Nationale de
Tunisie (BNT). For this purpose, a project account would be opened by the DF
at BNT in Tunis. Government counterpart funds would be secured through
appropriate budget allocations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the Project's draft annual budgets and financial plans, as proposed to the
Ministries of Planning and Finance, would be presented to the Bank for
information no later than September 30 of each year.
4.34     The Bank would replenish the revolving fund as requested upon receipt
of satisfactory evidence that expenditures made from it were eligible for
financing out of the fund. A replenishment request would normally be sent to
the Bank when 50% of the revolving fund has been disbursed, i.e., about every
two to three months. Should any disbursement made from the special account
not be acceptable to the Bank, Government would be required to deposit the
corresponding ineligible amount into the special account, or if the Bank so
requests, refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount not eligible.
4.35     No further deposits into the special account would be made by the
Bank when the total unwithdrawn amount of the part of the loan that is
( 3227E)



- 27 -
expected to be disbursed at loan closure would be equal to US$4 million. If
it is determined that any amount outstanding in the special account is not
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Government
would refund to the Bank such amount outstanding in the special account.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization. Management and Execution of Works
5.01     Project execution will be managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU)
specially set up for this purpose in the Forestry Department (DF) and under
the direct responsibility of its director general. It is headed by an
engineer assisted by one administrator, one accountant, and other support
staff as required. The Project would provide equipment to help the PMU to
fulfill its duties specified in Annex 13. PMU would be responsible for
coordinating project activities among the executing agencies (DF, E4AEF, INRF,
and CFPR) and for organizing training and technical assistance programs.
However, the primary responsibility for project execution would rest with the
DF, followed by the DREF, the INRF (applied research) and the CFPR (training).
5.02     A Forestry Coordination Committee (FCC) has been created to review,
coordinate, and monitor the annual programs of forestry development in the
country and in particular, their relation to the Project. The FCC would also
evaluate how those programs comply with the strategy agreed with the Bank in
the framework of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 2754-TUN).
It was set up before negotiations, and would be chaired by the Secretary
General of the MOA and it would have representatives of forestry, livestock,
water and soil conservation departments and of the development agencies
working on the project impact area. The FCC would meet twice a year, at least.
5.03     At the central level of the MOA, the DPSAE would monitor project
activities within the established methodology for monitoring and evaluating
the projects executed under the MOA. It would also be responsible for the
preparation of the project completion report.
5.04     All project activities related to the Exploitation component
(logging, felling and thinning) would be the responsibility r'2 the DREF which
would be provided with the equipment (para. 4.18) and training (para. 4.17) to
improve the quality of produce and its performance. During project
implementation, the preparation of direct DREF logging would decrease in favor
of contract logging. The DREF logging operation is intended as an extension
service for the introduction of new techniques and it would encourage its own
operators to buy equipment and continue as independent contractors
eventually. Although the Project would also provide some maintenance
equipment, maintenance and repairs of exploitation equipment will rely on the
existing structure which is satisfactory. The DREF will also be responsible
for selling the wood following procedures outlined Jn para. 2.19 and detailed
and described in Annex 11.
5.05     All the other project components would be the responsibility of the
DF, apart from the applied research and part of training assigned to
( 3227 )



- 28 -
specialized agencies. The supervision and execution of the Forest/Pastureland
inventory and the preparation of the national plan for the development of
forestry resources would be carried out through a unit within DF to be
specially set up and operated with the help of external technical assistance
(para. 4.17). Assurances that this unit would be created before loan
effectiveness and that the inventory and plan of development would be ready by
December 31, 1990, were obtained at negotiations. The remaining components
would be implemented through the existing directorates of the DF (see Chart
No. 2) depending on the specialty. The activities under the Project are
largely part of the usual routine of the DF. However, special assistance
would be required for drafting bidding documents for soil preparation included
in the mechanized plantation component. The Project would provide funds for
this purpose (para. 4.17). In addition, the promotion of a successful
large-scale public tree planting program would be of primary concern of DF.
The Project would finance training of staff in nursery development and in
communication (para. 4.17), and an information campaign among the public would
be developed to promote appropriate tree planting and maintenance.
5.06     The applied research program would be implemented by the INRF in
accordance with a protocol to be signed with the DF (para. 4.12).
Furthermore, the Government would ensure that extension training in
exploitation techniques would be provided by CFPR. The Project would also
provide funds for equipment and consultant services for this agency. The PMU
would be directly involved in monitoring the implementation of the research
and training programs in addition to the overall Technical Assistance and
Training component.
5.07     As of December 1986, the DF with its five subdirectorates (Chart
No. 1) and its regional departments comprised about 460 technical staff ( 28
chief engineers, 34 engineers, 150 assistant engineers, and 213 technicians)
and 68 administrative personnel. Under the present condition of constrained
activities due to budgetary limitations, this staff is sufficient but it lacks
operational means (transportation, equipment) to fulfill its tasks
satisfactorily. The Project would strengthen the headquarters with
operational means (para. 4.18) to improve liaison with the field, ameliorate
the management and control of accounts through the technical assistance
program (para. 4.17) and refresh and enhance the technical skills of existing
staff through training (para. 4.17). The DREF (Chart No. 2) has 35 technical
staff (3 engineers, 15 assistant engineers and 17 other technicians) and 6
administrative personnel. Field activities are carried out by laborers
recruited as needed. As a whole, this structure is adequate given current
exploitation volumes. However, there is a virtual absence of transportation
between headquarters and the field (to be addressed by the Project, para.
4.18); the two chiefs of technical departments in the DREF have not yet been
formally appointed which leads to work overload of the Director. The
situation however is expected to be corrected shortly. The Project would
provide funds to strengLhen the operational and technical capabilities of the
DREF (para. 4.18).
Contracting of Works
5.08     Mechanized Plantations.  Works related to fast growing forest
plantations represent 34% of the total project investment costs; US$6 million
or 452 correspond to mechanized operations covering about 8,100 ha distributed
(3227E)



- 29 -
in three areas - Tegma, Nefza and Sedjenane. Preparation work to be carried
out by DF would include demarcation of areas, preparation of tender documents
and subsequent procurement procedures, cutting, removing and sale of any wood
produced from the natural ground cover prior to clearing and selection of
species to be planted. Clearing and soil preparation would be executed by
contract procured under ICB procedures (para. 4.26). Technical specifications
referred to in Annex 4 would be taken into consideration when issuing bidding
documents for the execution of the earth works. The DF would be assisted by
consultants in the preparation of these documents (para 4.17). The same
contractor would also be responsible for undertaking infrastructural work such
as construction of roads and fire breaks. Bids would be invited for separate
lots, which could also be awarded in packages of 2 or 3 lots depending on
prices and contractors' capacity. The DF would assure the supervision of the
works and be directly responsible for the planting and subsequent tending
during the two years after planting.
5.09     Other Works.  As a rule, miscellaneous infrastructure works
(construction and rehabilitation of buildings, roads, fire towers, fire
breaks, etc.) would be executed through contracts procured under LCB (para.
4.27) and supervised by the DF. However, force account could be used when the
dispersed nature of the works and their small size would render them
unattractive to contractors. Standard designs for these works are available
and most of them have been accepted by the Bank in other projects. All other
forest related works (seeding, planting, clearing, tending and maintaining)
are traditionally carried out by DF on force account.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.10     Monitoring.  The PMU would be responsible for monitoring the progress
in project implementation and for collecting data needed to evaluate the
project impact.. For this purpose, early in the project implementation and
within the framework of the technical assistance component, the PMU would be
assisted by a consultant (para. 4.17) to set up a project management
information system (MIS). This MIS would follow the main pattern for project
monitoring and evaluation already used for other Bank-financed projects in
Tunisia but with the necessary adjustments due to the intrinsic nature of
forestry activities. It would cover both the financial and the physical
implementation of the Project, addressing in particular execution of
contracts, control of force account works and loan disbursements. The
strengthening of the DF and DREF accounting system and the setting-up of
separate project cost accounts would also contribute to establishing a
suitable MIS.
5.11     Reporting and Evaluation.  The Planning Department of the Ministry of
Agriculture (DPSAE) would be responsible for evaluating project results. The
PMU would prepare semi-annual project progress reports in accordance with
mutually agreed guidelines and would submit them to the Bank. The DPSAE would
prepare a project completion report within six months of the closing date.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
C. Accounts and Audit
5.12     The administrative and accounting departments of DF and DREF at
central and regional levels are performing satisfactorily within the public
accounting system required by Government. Annual budget allocations refer to
types of expenditures of the Public Accounting Plan but they are not connected
C 3227 E



- 30 -
to specific development projects. The DF and the DREF are also made
responsible for managing special socially oriented funds aiming at supporting
emergency Government programs.-"  Within the framework of improving current
financial management conditions, separate project cost accounting systems
would be set up in DF and DREF.  Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.  The Project would assist in designing those systems through the
provision of consultant services (para. 4.17).  These accounts would be
coordinated by PMU and maintained in accordance with principles and practices
satisfactory to the Bank which have been recently discussed and are being
adopted by other departments of the MOA, e.g., under the NW Agricultural
Production (Loan 2502-TUN). In order that project accounts are properly kept,
any nationally subsidized program should be identified in the annual budgets
of DF and DREF. These separate budget lines would be established no later
than December 31, 1988. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. The project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The auditcrs' annual long-form reports, along with
opinions on the Statements of Expenditures for disbursements under the Bank
Loan and on the revolving fund (Special Account), and audited project
financial statements would be sent to the Bank within six months after the end
of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01     Wood production from existing natural forests and plantations would
take place during the project invesment period, beginning in year 1 and
reaching full development from year 3 onwards. Wood production from new
plantations would follow rotation lengths and yields, beginning in Year 11,
and ending in year 40. Due to the nature of trees planted and the expected
rotation lengths, some wood would be produced in each of these years. The
greatest amount of wood would be produced in years 31-36, when mature pine
trees are expected to be clear felled. Total estimated wood production with
and without project over the 40-year period is shown below.
PROJECT ESTIMATED WOOD PRODUCTION
Zeen   Cork            Without  Incre-
Poplar  Pine   Eucalyptus Acacia   Oak    Oak   TOTAL   Project  mental
---- (in thousands of cubic meters) -------------------------
Peeler Logs     391.8    -        -       -       -       -      391.8    -     391.8
Sawlogs           -   2,193.5   211.1     -   1,160.0     -    3,564.6   180.0 3,384.6
Chipwood         93.6 1,819.8   725.4      -      -       -    2,638.8 1,400.0 1,238.8
Mining Timber     -    748.0   139.5       -     77.5     -      965.0   40.0   925.0
Poles, Posts.
Pickets         -    701.6   180.2       -      40.0    -      921.8   520.0   401.8
Fuelwood          -   2,071.0  1,320.0 /j 160.0 1,047.0 1,362.0  5,960.0 3,060.0 2,900.0
TOTAL   485.4 7,533.9  2,576.2   160.0 2,324.5 1,362.0 14,442.0 5,200.0 9,242.0
Without Project   -   3,600.0   960.0   160.0  160.0   320.0  5,200.0
Incremental     485.4 3,933.9  1,616.2    -   2,164.5 1,042.0  9,242.0
/I Includes some acacia.
1/  Forestry-related activities have traditionally been used to absorb
unskilled unemployed labor.



- 31 -
B. Market Prospects
6.02     Tunisia's self-sufficiency ratio in wood and wood products is very
low except for small volume items such as agricultural timber and chipwood.
Consequently, no difficulty is foreseen in marketing project output of timber
and fuelwood which is aimed at domestic consumption.
6.03     The Project's main output, both in terms of volume and value, will be
sawlogs. At present, domestic production of sawlogs and sawn timber,
represents barely 42 of total consumption. Over the Project's 40-year life,
Tunisia's self-sufficiency ratio in sawn timber would increase to over 20% if
FAO projections of wood demand are met (Annex 11), even under the extremely
conservative assumption that private plantations do not provide any sawn
timber to the market. In addition, poplar peeler logs that have not so far
been produced in Tunisia, will be made available.
6.04     Projected output of chipwood for particle board would represent some
13 of incremental wood production. These quantities would be adequate to
ensure full capacity utilization of existing industrial infrastructure, and
would certainly preclude the need for imports of raw material which have taken
place in the past. More importantly, the type of chipwood mix provided would
change from the present 50% eucalyptus-50% pine and other conifers to a more
desirable one of roughly 30% eucalyptus-70S pine. This in turn would enable
production of better quality particle board, and would replace imported sawn
timber in certain kinds of furniture making.
6.05     Utility timber in the mining, agriculture and construction sectors
would also be provided by the project. Around lO of incremental project
output would be used for mining timber (pitprops, roofing of galleries), and
would substitute for part of the approximately 20,000 m3 of mining timber
imported annually. Timber deeds for agriculture are largely provided by
private woodlots and farm windbreaks. Availability of wood from these sources
is likely to increase given the Government's policy of encouragement to
private plantations. Consequently, agricultural timber and poles for
construction would only represent around 42 of incremental project output.
6.06     Fuelwood (including charcoal) would represent over 30% of incremental
project output. This implies an almost doubling of current official
production. The deficit in fuelwood has been estimated at around 2 million
m3/year by the FAO. This deficit is presumably met through illegal cutting
of forests. Together with other project actions (improved yields of charcoal
and better thermal efficiency to be achieved through the utilization of
improved wood stoves), the incremental production is expected to alleviate the
present pressure on Tunisian forests. An additional factor that is expected
to contribute to decreasing illegal activity in forests is the increasing use
of alternative energy sources for cooking, notably bottled gas.
C. Prices
6.07     As discussed in paragraph 2.19, the DREF sells wood either by auction
or at fixed prices. Auctions are organized for sale on stump or of stacked
wood (paras. 6.08-6.09). Fixed price sales are made in three different ways,
namely sales at preferential rates to the forest population (also called
rights-holders), against invoice to public sector entities, and by agreement
for small volumes that do not justify the organization of auctions. Fixed
(32217)



- 32 -
price sales are made on the basis of a schedule of rates that have in the past
been revised sporadically. The distortions introduced by the current practice
of separate auctions for chipwood and by the way fixed prices are determined
should be corrected.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that auctions
would be opened for all categories of wood to all licensed wood buyers by
December 31, 1988, and that each year starting with 1989, reference prices for
all types of wood to be sold directly to wood users would be determined based
on the prices obtained under auctions undertaken in the preceding year, and
taking into account the ability of such users to pay.
6.08     Auction Price of Tree Stands.  DREF sells tree stands of specified
standing volume at public auctions (para. 2.14). Auction prices depend on the
type of wood involved, prices for end-products and logging conditions. In
1985, the average price received in the project area was 24 D/m3.  In 1986,
there was a higher proportion of small wood offered at a time when this market
was depressed, and the average price received was only 11 DIm3. Price data
by species are not routinely maintained by the DREF, and examination of such
data as do exist revealed that per cubic meter, pine stands fetch about twice
as much as eucalyptus stands.
6.09     Auction Price of Stacked Wood.  Approximately 30% of DREF wood
production is sold as stacked wood at roadside. Auction prices depend on the
type of utilization and quality of the wood as well as demand and supply
interactions in the market at the given time. In the course of the Project,
DREF sales of stacked wood are expected to increase less rapidly than total
wood production, since private e-ploitation of forests is to be encouraged
(para. 4.07).
6.10     Price Outlook.  Price projections for individual items have been made
based on (a) world market price outlook for temperate hardwoods and
softwoods,1' and (b) expected supply/demand situation in local markets for
the item in question. Weighted average growth rates have been calculated
taking into account the proportion of wood expected to be sold in each of the
ways discussed above (paras. 6.07-6.09) by category of end-product, and are as
follows:
(a) Sawlogs: While global demand for both hardwood and softwood logs is
expected to grow, the supply potential of both temperate and tropical
woods is limited. As a result of a tight supply situation, prices of
logs are likely to rise in real terms in international markets.
Local prices are expected to follow. Real price growth rates for
pine sawlogs and poplar peeler logs are expected to be around 1% p.a.
until 2000 and constant thereafter, and those for zeen oak and
eucalyptus to increase at 1.32 p.a. until 2000 and remain constant
thereafter.
(b) Chipwood: The ratio of pine chipwood price to eucalyptus chipwood
price is expected to be around 1.5. Prices of both woods are not
expected to grow in real terms given that local supply is adequate to
meet demand.
(c) Mining Timber: Domestic demand for mining timber is not likely to
grow appreciably in the foreseeable future. Prices are therefore
projected to remain constant.
1/  Obtained from World Bank Commodity Forecasts Division; closest substitute
to Tunisian woods.
(3227E)



- 33 -
(d)  Agricultural Timber:  The demand for agricultural timber is satisfied
to a large extent from private plantations, and prices for project
output are not expected to grow in real terms.
(e)  Fuelwood:  Fuelwood from legal cuttings is mostly transformed into
charcoal, which is sold in both urban and rural areas. Prices are
determined by demand/supply interactions and have more than tripled
since 1980. However, given the relative price of fuelwood compared
to other energy sources, fuelwood prices are not expected to follow
past growth trends; rather, they are projected to increase at the
same rate as that projected for petroleum products: 3.7b p.a. until
2000 and constant thereafter.
(f)  Cork:  The price for cork varies widely in international markets
based on quality considerations. The quality of Tunisian cork itself
is variable, given the di fferences in exploitation, which condition
future harvests, and which are further exacerbated by the cyclical
nature of cork production (trees are debarked on a 12-year
rotation). Selling cork by free auctiou, open to both the parastatal
and the private sector (para. 2.20), would remove the distortions in
cork pricing that are present in the existing system, to the benefit
of DREF, which would obtain better prices for its production, and to
the country as a whole. Prices for cork in the domestic market are
expected to increase since demand for cork exceeds supply.
Assurances that cork sales would be liberalized by December 31, 1989
were obtained at negotiations. In such a situation, it is difficult
to predict with certainty the actual rate of increase in prices. A
growth rate of 3% in real. terms has been retained until the year
2000. This is on the conservative side given the world market
outlook. It is estimated that international prices are at least 502
higher than local prices.l'
6.11     Composite Growth Rates.  Based on the individual forecasts above,
composite price growth rates have been calculated by species per cubic meter
of wood on stump. Prices of pine stands should inc ease at slightly less than
1% p.a. and those for eucalyptus at around 1.32 p.a., in real terms until the
year 2000, and remain constant thereafter. Prices of zeen oak stands are
projected to increase at 1.6% p.a. while those of cork stands at 3.3% p.a. iii
real terms until the year 2000, due to the relatively higher increase in both
fuelwood and cork prices. Prices of poplar stands are expected to increase at
around 1% p.a. in real terms until the year 2000, and remain constant
thereafter. Overall, all price estimates retained are on the conservative
side, since (a) 1986 prices were used as base year prices, and wood markets
were unusually depressed in that year (Annex 11); and (b) very stringent
assumptions concerning price increases have been made for all categories of
wood other than sawlogs and fuelwood.
D. Financial Results
6.12     Impact on Government Finances.  Inflows to the Treasury would consist
of production taxes payable on wood processing, taxes on staff salaries and
duties and taxes on equipment and operating costs incurred in its use, in
1/ Based on the average export for Portuguese cork, brought to forest level
for comparison purposes (see Annex 12).



- 34 -
addition to sales receipts from wood and the proposed loan. Outflows would
consist of government investment in the sector, incremental salaries and
operating costs, together with debt service on the proposed Bank loan.
Incremental ;evenues resulting from secondary forest production or second
level tax effects have not been included in the analysis. Table 7 summarizes
the impact on government finances (details in Annex 12) over the first 20
years of the project. The net impact on government finances shows annual
variation given the irregular sales revenues resulting from the Project, which
in turn are due to the rigid observance (for the purposes of the analysis) of
highly theoretical rotation and harvesting cycles. In reality, of course, the
work program of the DREF would be considerably more stable.
6.13     Cost Recovery.  A financial analysis of the Project was carried out
to determine cost recovery for production-oriented components from the
Government's standpoint given these financial flows. The analysis shows that
under the production, markets and price scenario discussed above, the
Government achieves 100% cost recovery of forestry investment and O&M costs
with a return of capital of 142. Furthermore, cost recovery of accompanying
measures such as range establishment is also indirectly achieved. In
implementing the pasture and rangeland component, an effort would be made to
interest the residents of forest villages to assume the responsibility for
management of improved forage plots at an early stage. Since the pastures are
being established or improved to permit closing and reforestation of areas
presently used for grazing, recovery of investment costs would not be aimed
for at this stage. Producers will bear expenses associated with the control
of use of pastures as well as the maintenance of fences and removal of
undesirable plants. Although high charges would hamper the already difficult
task of organizing producers and getting them to take over management and
control, the DF should estimate the operation and maintenance costs of the
newly improved pastures and set up a procedure to recover such costs from the
beneficiaries taking into account their ability to pay, by December 31,
1991.1'  Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
6.14     Financial Rates of Return.  The FRRs evaluated by project component
and overall are shown below:
Compone~ .t                                             FRR
Regeneration of natural forests                                  482
Establishment of new plantations                                 11%
Exploitation of existing forests & plantations                   32b
Forest nurseries                                                 262
Overall                                                     14%
1/ Currently DP charges a nominal fee for the use of open or forest rangeland
and the Office de Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest recovers
about 80% of O&M costs of their improved pastures.
( 3227E)



- 35 -
The Regeneration component is the most attractive since project actions
involve exploiting natural forests in order to achieve regeneration with high
immediate benefits. Similarly, high incremental revenues accrue as a result
of better valorization of existing resources in the exploitation component.
Forest nurseries show a high FRR due to low costs of production compared to
the selling price of seedlings. An important implication for the Government,
given its objective of encouraging private plantations, is that full cost
recovery could still be achieved even if selling prices were lowered by 20%.
6.15     Sensitivity Analysis.  The sensitivity of the FRR to changes in the
magnitude and timing of incremental revenues and costs flows was tested under
a variety of assumptions, which have been summarized below (details in
Annex 12).
Net Present Value /a      FRR (%)
Overall Project                     3,883                14.0
Costs up 102                        1,832                11.8
Costs up 20%                         (219)               10.4
Revenues down 10%                   1,444                11.6
Revenues lagged 1 year              1,666                11.6
Costs up 10 and
Revenues lagged 1 year             (386)               10.3
Revenues up l0X                     6,323                15.6
/a  In thousands of 1986 dinars at 10% dlscount rate.
The scenario of an increase in revenues is included above sinice price
estimates retained for the analysis are rather conservative (para. 6.11).
Thus, a 10% increase in revenues does not seem at all unlikely.
6.16     Impact on Foreign Exchange Account.  Inflows to the foreign exchange
account would arise from savings due to import substitution, some export
earnings and receipt of the proposed loan. Outflowr would consist of foreign
exchange denominated expenditures on investment items and recurrent costs and
on debt service of the proposed loan. A net surplus of foreign exchange due
to the Project is expected to occur as early as year 2 of the Project. This
is due to (a) increased domestic production of sawlogs and mining timber, both
of which are currently imported; (b) increased production of chipwood, which
leads to increased production of better quality particle board (para. 6.04)
that would substitute for low grade imported sawn timber in certain types of
furniture making; and (c) exports of poplar logs and small export of mining
timber. The resulting foreign exchange savings more than offset foreign
exchange denominated expenditures. Table 8 shows the expected impact for the
years 1988-2007. The positive foreign exchange impact, net of debt service,
is expected to total some US$24 million by year ten of the Project, and US$70
million over the life of the loan (17 years).
(3227E)



- 36 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01     The direct quantifiable benefits of the proposed Project would arise
from an increaze in the production of sawlogs, other industrial timber, and
fuelwood. This incremental production is expected to result in a decrease in
imports of sawn timber, mining timber and chipwood (both directly and
indirectly as discussed in paras. 6.04 and 6.16), and generate exports of
poplar logs and to a lesser extent of mining timber, once local needs are
satisfied. The resulting foreign exchange savings and earnings are expected
to be of the order of US$4.5 million p.a. on average for the first 20 years,
and considerably greater thereafter when mature pine trees are clear felled.
As a result of the Project, Tunisia's self-sufficiency ratio in sawn timber
would increase from its present level of 4% to around 20 over the Projects'
40-year life. The increase in the quantity and quality of chipwood produced
would permit full capacity utilization of existing industrial infrastructure.
The Project would result in a doubling of current official fuelwood production
(an increment of some 2.9 million cubic meters) over its life, representing on
average 72,500 m3 annually. This production, when transformed into charcoal,
would be equivalent to 3,600 tons of Liquefied Petroleum Gas for household
use, which would cost Tunisia around US$0.6 million/year were it to be
imported (1986 prices).
7.02     Over the seven-year implementation period, the Project is expected to
generate over 10,000 man-years of direct employment for unskilled labor and
about 2,300 man-years of direct employment for skilled and semi-skilled labor
(Table 9). Since project actions will occur for the most part in the
relatively disadvantaged regions of the country, a large part of this
employment will benefit poorer workers in these areas and help stem rural
exodus. Even relatively capital-intensive operations (e.g., mechanized
plantations) are expected to generate over 1,900 man-years of direct,
unskilled employment over the project implementation.  Over the 40-year life
of the Project, the exploitation of incremental wood production, resulting
from proper implementation of forest management plans alone, would generate
around 1,200 man-years of employment for unskilled labor (public sector),
whereas over 9,000 man-years of employment would be provided through the
private sector. The Project would thus bring about a shift in relative
importance between the private and public sectors in employment creation,
cuusistent with government objectives (para. 2.27).
B. Environnental   act
7.03     A very important benefit of the proposed Proj4ct is its expected
environimental impact. The Project's major contribution to environmental
conservation will be the proposed regeneration of indigenous forest by
ecologically and economically viable methods. Regeneration of some 85$
(21,500 ha) of natural oak and pine forest that is presently in arrears
(para. 4.08) will be initiated during the project period by a system of
assisted natural regeneration that will use selected tree seed from the
indigenous forest. These initiatives will be supported by pasture Improvement
and grazing control (para. 4.14).  Regeneration of approximately 10,000 ha in
the southern-most affected arrondissement (Kasserine) will make a major
contriblution to the prevention of desert spread.  These interventions will
also contribute to a doubling of national annual production by the third year
( 322X1)



- 37 -
of the Project. Around 302 of the increase will be fuelwood, the present
shortage of which is one of the principal causes of forest destruction
(para. 2.12). Wood conservation will also be promoted by the replacement of
wasteful manual tree felling and cross-cutting by semi-mechanized means and
the improvement of charcoal-making techniques, which will double production
efficiency.
7.04     The Project will arrest soil erosion by wind and water as well as
increasing future wood supplies substantially by the establishment of over
10,000 ha of fast-growing tree plantations in degraded shrubland and on the
banks of rivers. The riverain plantations, in addition, will fix river banks
and serve as windbreaks in the agricultural areas in which they are to be
established. These plantations will include a proportion of exotic tree
species and the forestry research program will monitor their effects on the
soil. Improvements in water supplies and transport that will affect a total
of 25 forest nurseries will contribute to a significant increase in plant
production (tree seedlings and forage shrubs) for public sales and tree
planting. Annual plant production in the six nurseries primarily involved in
public sales will be tripled, as will national production, to 90 million plants
per year, by the fifth year of the Project.
7.05     The forest management component, which includes forest protection
from fire, elimination of illicit clearance and rehabilitation of degraded
forest, will be implemented in two pilot areas. Rehabilitation of overgrazed
forest grasslands will be included in the regeneration, reforestation and
management components and will contribute to a national plan to rationalize
use of forests and forest grasslands. The Project's forest and pasture land
inventory will provide the means of identifying degraded areas in need of
remedial treatment and the basis for future national planning.
7.06     The nature conservation component will establish an enviro;Aental
exLension unit for public education and provide vehicles and equipment for
Tunisia's three existing and one projected mainland national parks, wildlife
inventory equipment for use nationwide, and vehicles for the principal
wildlife officers throughout the central and southern region governorates.
This would support the government proposal for protecting eight nationally and
internationally threatened species of vertebrates. It will also provide
technical assistance in environmental extension and training in national park
management, ornithology, and animal and plant ecology.
C. Economic Analysis
7.07     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated
at 18X.  The quantification of benefits varies by component.  In general,
benefits are measured as the value of incremental wood production valued in
economic prices. In one case, an attempt has been made to quantify certain
intangible benefits (such as fire protection). Costs, also valued in economic
prices, include investment and incremental operating costs over the Project's
life (40 years). Tradeable items are valued at their border prices adjusted
for transport to and handling within Tunisia. Labor, both skilled and
unskilled, is valued at its estimated opportunity cost (50% of market wage for
unskilled labor and the full market wage for skilled labor, adjusted for
taxes). These items together with outputs and inputs not traded in world
markets have been adjusted to border prices through the standard conversion
factor for non-traded goods (estimated to be 0.90). The ERRs by project
component and overall are shown below.



- 38 -
ERR
Regeneratien of natural forest                           > 50%
Establishment of new plantations                           162
Exploitation of existing forests & plantations             22%
Forest nurseries                                           40%
New forest management                                      17%
Total Project /a                                      182
/a Includes all project costs. Unquantifiable benefits,
such as long-term gains through research, training, and
all environmental benefits are not included. Had it been
possible to quantify, and therefore include such benefits
(in particular, environmental) the ERR would certainly be
much higher.
The very attractive returns provided by the regeneration component are due to
the fact that project actions generate immediate benefits. In the case of new
plantations and forest nurseries, the ERRs are higher than the FRRs due to the
high tax component included in the domestic prices of equipment and
machinery. An additional factor for new plantations is the importance of
unskilled labor in total plantation establishment and maintenance costs. In
the case of the exploitation component, the ERR while 221, is lower than the
FRR. This is due to there being a smaller difference in economic terms
between the benefits streams with and without project, whereas in financial
prices, with project revenues are much greater than those without project.
The benefits of the forest management component are largely environmental and
include (a) protection from fire which could potentially damage not only the
forest areas but the human and animal population living within or near them;
and (b) the sustaining of forest, animal and crop production in the perimeters
concerned.-'
7.08     The alternative to the Projcct in the areas in question would be a
continuation of present trends. Thus, in the absence of regeneration
fellings, natural forests would remain unexploited and the two forest
management perimeters would suffer further degradation. In the absence of new
plantation establishment (mechanized), the scrubland would be suitable only
for grazing, given the nature of the regions' soils. This has already been
incorporated into the analysis as the "without" project scenario. Riverain
plantations will fix river banks and serve as windbreaks; their absence would
engender certain losses in agricultural productivity in the area. A viable
mutually exclusive alternative does not suggest itself in light of the above.
D. Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests
7.09     No major or unusual technical risks threaten the success of the
proposed Project. Normal risks of fire have been addressed in project design
(fire-breaks and surveillance). Plantation establishment technologies have
been used successfully in other countries under similar conditions. However,
the success of the Project could be threatened by slow acceptance of the new
Forestry Code on the part of the forest population and, as a result, continued
1/ See Annex 12 for full details of the economic analysis by component.
C 3227E)



- 39 -
grazing pressure in forest areas. The Project's pasture component, which
accompanies all relevant project activities, has been designed expressly to
overcome this potential problem.
7.10     Risks that may result in deviations from the Project's ERR are delays
in implementation, cost overruns and lower than expected production volumes,
The price estimatei retained are conservative and barring major unforeseen
calamities would tend to understate project benefits. Switching values for
the Project's critical variables are given below.
SWITCHING VALUES FOR CRITICAL VARIABLES /a
Regene-   Plan-   Exploi-  Nurse-       Total
ration   tations  tation    ries       Project
Yields/Benefits             -40       -55      -17       -54        -45
Establishment costs         +96      +148      +53      +242      +123
Maintenance costs          +297      +994      +37      +340       +302
Other project costs'b                                           +1,326
/a OCC = 10%.
/b Indirect costs (inventory, research, training and technical assistance,
Project administration) apportioned to each component.
it can be seen that yields, and therefore benefits, would have to decrease by
45% to decrease the Project's ERR to 102. Such a decrease in yields in
unlikely since projected yields are conservative and considered to be
attainable given foreseeable technical and managerial constraints. Project
Investment costs would have to increase by 123% to decrease the ERR to 10%,
which would also appear to be an unlikely scenario.
7.11     Sensitivity tests were performed to assess the impact of these
critical variables on the Project's outcome. They are summarized below for
the Project as a whole:
(a) a 10% decrease or a year's delay in benefits would reduce the ERR to
15X, and a 20% decrease or two years delay would reduce the ERR to
13X;
(b) a 10% increase in costs would reduce the ERR to 16%; a 20% increase
to 14X; and
(c) a 10% increase in benefits would increase the EPR to 21X, while a 202
increase would increase it to 25X.
This analysis was also carried out by component. The regeneration component
is not very sensitive to increases in costs or decreases in benefits (a 202
increase in costs together with a 202 decrease in benefits still yielded an
ERR of 38X). For the plantation componenit, timeliness in implementing project
actions seems to be a more critical factor affecting the ERR than either an
increase in costs or decrease in benefits (a two-year delay in realizing
benefits reduces the ERR to 14X).



- 40 -
7.12     The above underlines the importance of strong project management and
monitoring to coordinate project activities and minimize delays in
implementing project actions. This coordination is particularly critical for
new plantation establishment.
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01     At negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) New major investments in the forestry sector would be selected in
accordance with criteria already mutually agreed for the agricultural
sector in general (para. 4.01);
(b) A project MIS system would be prepared and implemented to be fully
operational by December 31, 1988 (para. 4.17);
(c) Before December 31, 1988, (i) selected applied research themes
considered essential for the Project would be included in the INRF
work programs in accordance with a protocol to be signed between DF
and the INRF; and (ii) the CFPR would provide training to forest
exploitation workers on selected matters (para. 4.18);
(d) In the framework of execution of works or supply of goods to be
procured under local competitive bidding and to be cofinanced by the
Bank no margin of preference would be granted to local manufacturers,
all bidders would be treated equally, particularly in the provision
of securities, and bids shall be opened in public (para. 4.27);
(e) All bidding documents for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$1,000,000 or more and for goods costing the equivalent of
US$300,000 or more, and the first bidding documents for works or
goods below those limits would be subject to Bank's prior review.
The balance would be subject to Bank's post-review after contract
award (para. 4.30);
(f) A revolving fund with an initial deposit up to US$2 million would be
set up (para. 4.33);
(g) The Project's draft annual budgets and financial plans would be
presented to the Bank for information, not later than September 30 of'
each year (para. 4.33);
(h)  The DF would prepare the forestry/pastureland inventory and the
Master Plan for Development of the Forestry Resources by December 31,
1990 (para. 5.05);
(i)  The Project Management Unit %'PMU) would prepare and send to the Bank
semi-annual progress reports in accordance with mutually agreed
procedures (para. 5.11);
(3a?7E )



- 41 -
(j)  The DPSAE would prepare a Project Completion Report within six months
of the closing date (para. 5.11);
(k) Any nationally-subsidized "make work" programs should be identified
separately in the annual budgets of DF or DREF no later than December
31, 1988 (para. 5.12);
(1) Separate cost account systems for the Project would be kept by DF and
DREF coordinated by PMU; Government would hire independent auditors
and transmit their reports to the Bank within six months after the
end of each fiscal year (para. 5.12).
(m)  By December 31, 1988, auctions would be open for all categories of
wood to all licensed wood buyers, and each year starting with 1989,
reference prices for other types of sales would be determined based
on the prices obtained under auctions undertaken in the preceding
year and taking into account the ability of wood users to pay (para.
6.07);
(n) Cork sales would be liberalized by December 31, 1989 (para. 6.10); and
(o) The DF would estimate operation and maintenance costs of improved
pastures implemented under the Project and set up a procedure to
recover such costs from the beneficiaries, taking into account their
ability to pay, by December 31, 1991 (para. 6.13).
8.02     As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan, Government would
promulgate the Forestry Code (para. 2.21), and set up within the DF a unit to
supervise the execution of the forest/pastureland inventory and the
preparation of the master plan for the development of the forestry resources
(para. 5.05).
8.03     Based on the above agreements, the proposed Project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$20 million to the Government of Tunisia for a term of 17 years
including 4 years of grace. The Project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1994.
( 3 a aI a



- 42 -
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNEIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project ComDonents by Year
(DBIAR 1 900)
Bass Cast;                                Total
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994       DINAR    US$ '00)
A. FOREST EXPLOITATION                       1,431.2 1.497.6 1,869.0 1,474.2 1W684.3 1,568.? 1W27.3  11P1I5.3   130717.1
P. FOREST PLANTATION                           736.4  951.9 1.411.0 1.866#9 2#102.8 2M28C.M  24008.4  11,358.0  13070.5
C. F'RE8T MANAGEMENT                          174.1   262o6   92,2   123*2   146.9  210.9   60.0   '.070            1,3:6.:
P. FOREST RANOE IMPROVEMENT                   268.8   302.3  361.5   247.7   130.5   93.9    92.3   146.9    '..841.Z
E. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT   2,708.7 14373.2  529.2  483.7   251.4   660.1   298.8  6o305.1   7J755.4
--- -     ----   ----  --    --   ------ ----  -  -  --------    *-  --------- -- - -----. -   -------
Total ?ASE1.1NE COSTS                         5.319,2 42 387#7 4262.9 4.195.7 4W315.7 44814.2 44086.9  314382.2  383600,5
Phus.cal Cortingef-es                        475.6   330.8   304.8   297.1   322.4   375.2   292.8   2,398.7    2095,.4
Price Zontr,'enc:es                          186.5   367.0  639,9   915.2 1P282.9 1,695.7 1P950.2  7,037.5   8,656.3
total PROJECT COSTS                           50981,3 b085.4 5.207.6 5.408.1 5,921.1 6.88S.1 64329.9  40t818.5   50}2C7.2
=v22   ::::  :5:::::=S:::_   :::::  tS :: ::__::  __:.2-
IP 1619.9 1.162.6 19000.7 1.016.2 1,137.9 1.504.6 1.136,0   8.627.9   10,612.4
Foreign E:;chanse                          3t394#1 2M3806 24032.7 1.968.2 2,043.1 2t488.3 1.960.8  16,267.7   20.009.4
Febru-v-  -? !°B    '3:44



- 43 -
Table 2
STAFF APPRAESAL REPORT
TNNS;w
EPREsTRY DE!WOFP2 PRoJEcT
Swumary Aco  Cost Summar
BST. C0PY AVAiABLE
(DINO  '000)                (USW  '000)                   Z Tota
----------------------- --------------------------  Z Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Tatal   Excherae    Cos :;
:NUETS"hENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES AND EOU'IPNT
PICK-UP                                                326.7   381,5   708.2    401.8   469.2   871.1            54        Z
IMPLEJENTS                                              53.7    56.4   110.2       66.1    69.4   135.5          51        ;
TRACTOR                                                273*.1     4.0   93?.0    335.9   916.7  1,152.6          71        3
CARS                                                   636.2   603.5  1.239.7    782.6   742.3  1S24.9           49       4
OTHER EQUIPMENT                                        880.4  1,054.3  1,934.7  1,083.0  1.296 9  2P379*9        54        6
CARTOGRAPHIC EGJIPHENT                                  12.1    24.3    36.4       14.8    29.9    44.7          67
MOTO                                                    35.0    22,9    57.9       43.0    28.2    71.2          40
CCONMASBLES                                              7.1    158    22.9        8.8    19.4    28.'          69
SPAREPARTS                                             163.1   189.5   352.6    200,6   233.1   433.7            54
TRUCKS                                                  40.8    60.9   101.7       50.2    74.9   125.1          60
AACHINERY                                               63.8    88.8   152.6       78.4   109.3   187.7          58 s
SUPPLIES                                               331.6   660.9   992.4    407.8   812.9  1.220.7           6?       3
LABORATORY                                              26.5    44.8    71.2       32.6    55,1    87.6          63
-.ib-Total VEHICLES AND EOUIRPENT                      2.85090  38667.6  60717*6  3.505.5  4.757.1  8,:62.7         58      21
A. PLANTAONS
CLEARING                                                20.3    20.0    40.3       25.0    24.6    49.6           o 50  ;
SEEDING                                              4#175.2  3,323.4 7.503,6  5,135.5  44094.0  9t229#5         44       24
SOIL PREPARAT4IONREGENERAT:ON                        1,147.9  1.128A4  2P276.3  1t411.?  1.387.9 24799.8         SO        7
TENDIN                                               2504.9    05.2 3.110,1   3,081.0   744.4  3,825.4           19       Lb
S.b-'otal PNtAt83S                                      7.848.2 5M082.0 129930,2  9,653.4  65250.9 '5.904.3        239 
ROADS                                                1.598.5  1572.*  3.16711   1.966#1  1.934,4  3,900.5        SO       IC
FENCING                                                 23.7    13.8    37.4       29.1    16,?    46.0          37
OTHER VlMS                                              35.9    34.6    70.5       44.42   42.5    86.7          49        0
CONSTRUCTIONS                                          127.9   102.8   230.7    157.4   126.4   283.8            45
h.b-Totl WMR,S                                         1.786.0  1.723,7  3.509.7  2,196.8  2,120.2  4.317,0        49       l;
1. STLlIES TRAINING AND TE8HNICAL ASSISTANCE
RA&'N!NC ABROAD                                         25.9   232.9   258.8       31.8   286.5   318.4          90
,'MrULTANTS                                            360.4   820.*6  1181.0    443.2  1.009.4  1,452.6         69        4
.                            ---~~~~~~~~~~- - --- --  -------  ------- -.--- - - ------    - ------ -----
ub-Taota! srvo:rES TRAINING AND TECHN:CAL ASSISTANCE     386.2 1,053.6  1.439.8    475.1  1,295.9  1.771.0         '3 
I &INVESTNENT CCS'S                                   12,870.5 11,726.9 244597.3 15,830.8 14P424.2 30#255.0        43       '



- 44 -
Table 2
Page 2
Summary Accounts Cost Su=arZ (cont'd)
:q ECRRMENT COSMS
A. PERSONNEL
ENGINEERS                                              68.6        -    68.6       84.4       -    84.4           -
TECHNICAL STAFF                                       S57.3        -   557.3      85.5        -   685.'           -
SUFPORT STAFF                                          14.6        -    14,6      17.9        -    17.9           -
LAMMRERS                                            1,873.1        - 1#873.1   2,303.9        - ft303.9           -
Sub-Total PERSONNEL                                    24513.6        - 2s513.6  3.091.8         - 30918            -        8
B. WORIS
POAMS                                                 290.9   206,2   577.2    357.8   352.1   709.9             .0
CWNSTRCTION                                            16.6    15.1    31.6       20.4    18.5    38.9           48
Sub-Total ORKS                                           307.5   301.3   60B.8    378.2   370.6   748.8             #9
C. RANKE IMPROUENT
PASTURE HAIUITENANCE                                  264.5    36.9   301.4    325.3    45.4   370.7
TrRE£ nANtENANCE                                       16.9      1.6    18.5      20.8      2.0    '2.8
----~~~~- - --  ------------- ---------
Sub-total RANGE 4WROVMENT                                281.4    38.5   319.9    346.1    47.4   393.5            12
D. 'VEHICLES AND Ea'QUIPMENT
1EHICLES                                              ""Os8  1038.0  r836.8    982.6  1,276.8  2W2M9.3          57
!lAC8.EPY                                             580.2   889.9  1,470.1    713.7  1#094.6  1.808.3          61
TRUCKS                                                 13.9    21.7    35.6       17.2    26.7    43.8           61
Sub-Tot;l JEHICLES AND EWUPENt                         1s393.0  1,949.6  3.342.6  1r713.5  298.0  4r1l1.4           58      :
…---  -------               -------    ----------…-------…
otal RECURRENT COSTS                                      4.495,5  2289.4  684.9  55W9.5  2816#0  8t345.5             34
tal BASELINE COSTS                                       17,366.0 14,016.3 31S302.2  21,360.4 17240.2 38,600.5        45      .
Phusic.i Contingnciea                                    1.273.7  1.125.0  2r398.7  1r566.7  1383.7  2#950,4          47       ;
Price Cont;lerncms                                      5911.1  1t126.4  7rO37.5  7#270.7  1,385.5 8.46.3            16
tal MRJECT =TS                                           24s.5508 16,267.7 40,818.5  30.197#8 20,009.4 50,207.2       40       3C
:S*sua   338U28  UXSZtZ s  tSl35Z5 a 42Szg              2    S  ::z::_



- 45 -
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNJSIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of )isbursements of Bank Loan
IBRD                Bank Disbursements (US$ million) /a       Relevant Profiles
Fiscal Year       By End of     Cumulative   Cumulative       EMENA    Tunisia
Semester                    X Disbursed    SIL-A         SIL
December 31, 1987   0.0              0.0           0             0         0
June 30, 1988        0.6             0.6           3.1           1.1       1.0
December 31, 1988   1.0              1.6           7.8           4.2       3.8
June 30, 1989        0.9             2.5          12.5           7.2       6.6
December 31, 1989   2.0              4.5          22.4          12.8      12.6
June 30, 1990        1.1             5.6          28.2         18.5       17.6
December 31, 1990   2.0              7.6          37.9         26.3       24.9
June 30, 1991        1.9             9.5         47.5          34.2       32.2
December 31, 1991   1.8             11.3          56.4         42.8       40.0
June 30, 1992        1.8            13.1         65.6          51.4       47.8
December 31, 1992   1.5             14.6          72.9         59.4       25.1
June 30, 1993        1.4            16.0         80.1          67.4       62.4
December 31, 1993   1.1             17.1         85.4          74.0       68.7
June 30, 1994        1.0            18.1          90.6         80.7       75.1
December 31, 1994   0.8             18.9          94.3         85.8       80.1
June 30, 1995        0.7            19.6          98.0         90.9       85.2
December 31, 1995   0.2             19.8          99.0         94.4       87.4
June 30, 1996        0.2            20.0        100.0          98.0       93.6
December 31, 1996                                              98.4       95.7
June 31, 1997                                                 100.0       99.2
December 31, 1997                                                        100.0
/a  Expected date of signing:  August 3, 1987
effectiveness: December 31, 1987
completion: December 31, 1994
closing: December 31, 1995
(3227K)



STAFF APPRAISAE REPORT
iUNISIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicles
Forest       Forest      Mechan.  Riverain   Forest   Range                        Nature      Seed       Instit.
Regener.    Exploit.   Plant        Plant      Managt.  Improv.   Inventory   Conserv.   Collect.   Support   Total
Car 5 CV -                                                                      4        -           -           13           -                     17
Car 9 CV-   -                    -           -          -           -           1        -           -           15           -                     16
Car 4WD (Small)                 is           -          4          4            -        -           -            -           -           -         23
Car 4WD (Large)                  -           -          -           -           6        -           -           17           -           -         23
Pick-up truck 4 WD               -          10          -          -            4       6           12           14           3           7         56
Minibus-    -                    -           -           -          -           -        1           -            -           1                      2
Workshop truck                   -           2           -         -            -        -           -            -           -           -          2
Motorcycles  -                  83           -         25           -           -        -           -            -           -           -        108



- 47 -                                  Table 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNLSIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOMESTIC FORESTRY PRODUCTION - PERSPECTIWES AND PROSPECTS
Annual Production and Revenues
from Natural Forests and Forestrv Plantations /a
1980         1981         1982         1983       1984    1985
Wood (m3)
Sawn Timber                  4,579        4,528        3,446        1,796          762   1,687
Mining Timber                  299        1,070           614           18         606     414
Chipwood                    22,270       29,224       25,589       11,880      11,209  17,500
Fuelwood                    76,748       89,025       86,558       93,250      32,108  30,365
Poles, Posts, Pickets       19,436       14,489       16,012       11,694      12,658  12,923
Subtotal /b            123,332 /d  138,336 /d  132,219 /d  118,638         57,343  62,889
On Stump /c                   n.a.         n.a.         n.a.      221,517 /e  54,265  11,880
Total Wood
('000 m')                123          138          132         n.a.         112       75
Total Wood
(D '000)                485           551          502          886         666      940
Cork (D '000)                     331          303          295          304         371      338
Secondary Products (D '000)
Herbs & Medicinal Plants        67           40            59           35          90     238
Seeds & Seedlings               15            11           26           38          68      84
Quarry Products                 45           20            49          165         151     250
Apiculture                  )            )              )                9          22      24
Other (including            (    9       (    7        (  13
Olives & Almonds)         )            )             )                24         54       62
Pasture Fees                     8            14           21           45          60      67
Hunting                         24           83            74          142         152      66
Other                           46           48            35           77          74     108
Subtotal (D '000)          214          223          277          535         671      899
Grand Total (D '000)   L.M            16RU         1i1
n.a.   not available.
I_    Official sales by DREF.
/b    Stacked wood exploited and delivered to roadside by DREF.
/c    Exploited by private enterprise.
/d    Includes wood sold on stump.
/e    Trees; no figures or equivalent m3 available.
C 3227E)



- 48 -
Table 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plantations Establihed under National Derelopment Plans 1962-86
(Hectares)
Type of Plantation    1962-1972        1973-1976   1977-1981  1982-1986   Grand
(Plans 1-111)   (Plan IV)   (Plan V)   (Plan VI)   Totals
Protection
Inland dunes          5,573          1,877        2,665        1,563
Coastal dunes        15,335          6,850        7,050        1,695
Enricbment            6,400          2,650        2,905        1,630
Open areas           34,000          6,700        8,565        2,303
Wind breaks           8,500          2,500        3,750           220
Roadsides             2,700           1,000       8.570        2,900
Total                72,508         21.577       33.505       10,311   137,901
Production
Forest areas         30,600          6,900       15,000        5,000
Agricultural          6,700             745            -            -
Fruit trees               -               -            -         110
Recreation            1,500             600         600           730
Total                38,800          8,245       15,600        5,840    68,485
Fodder Shrubs
Acacia, Cactus        9,650          4,360       31,020       17,374    62,404
Total protection areas                 137,901 ha
Total production areas                  68.485 ha
Total fodder shrubs areas               62,404 ha
Total plantations                      268.790 ha
(S3 Z2 7K)



- 49 -
TaI6l 7
Page I
STAFF APPRAISAkILPQRI
FORESTRY DEVELOPHENT PRQJECI
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANA.Y5S
sovprnment Cash Flow - Inergantal /A
1988     1989      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994
-- (Current 0'000) -----
Wood                                     SS3    2,357    3,654    3,991    4,361    4,763    S,322
Tazo1
Wood /6                                   60       255       395      431       471       515      575
Staff salaries /C                         22        54        76       74        72        73      107
Equipment and
investments /4                        1.527       905      670       664       774   1126        767
Recurrent costs/g /g                      71       204       255      278       292       306      312
Subtotal                             1,660    1,418    1,396    1,447    1,559    2.020    1.761
Total Inflows                        2,233    3,775    5.050    5,438    5,920    6,783    7.083
OUTfFLgW
Investment                             5.609    4.099    3.906    4.059    4.547    5,461    4.632
Salaries                                 167       399      566       548       532       542      797
Operating costs                          205       587       735      801       842       882      900
Total Outflows                       5,981    5.085    5.207    5,408    5,921    6,885    6,329
Current Surplus
(Deficit)                            (3,748)  (1,310)    (157)        30        (1)    (10)      754
BANK FINNCN
Loan Receigt
IBRO /t                                1.300    2,358    2,520    3.008    2.683    2,032    1.463
Debt Service
Interest /g                               52       198      393       615       842      931       970
Principal /h                                                                  1,251    1,2S1    1.251
Comintment fee /1                        161        34        28       21        14        18        4
Subtotal                               213       232      421       636    2,107    2,190    2,225
NET FINANCING                        1.087    2,126    2.099    2,372         576     (158)    (762)
NET CURRENT SURPLUS
(DEFICIT)                   (2,661)      816    1.942    2.402        575      (260)       (h)
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS
(DEFICIT)                   (2,661)  (1,845)        97    2,499    3,074    2.814    2,806
/a With project over without project.
Inflation rate of 8X till 1994; 41 thereafter till 1999. and 2% beyond.
/l Resulting from subsequent transformation;
concerns industrial wood only-production tax of 16.821.
/I Weighted average tax rate of 13.441.
/I Including duties.
/1 Weighted average tax rate of 34,631.
/t Based on expected d1soursement profile;
slow disbursement rate due to delays in processing requests.
/g Although loan Is on variable Interest rate terms. a rate of 8t on the average balante
outstanding has been assumed.
lh Payable in 13 equal installments assumed to occur at the end of the year.
/I At 0.25% on undisbursed balance. Includes front end fee of 0.751 on entire loan amount.
(32212)



-50 -                                                   lable 7
Page 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORSTRVY DVELQPHENt PROJECT
FINANCXAL AND ECONOHIC ANALYSIS
Govpr0q=pt Cash Flow - Inergantal /a
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004   2005   2006   2007
(1994 0'000) --------------------------------------------
INLX
Salg5 RZeceltes
Wood              1.595   1.593   1.591   2,671   2.892   4,878   7.609   8,421   8,643   7,261   6,732  2,819  1,584
Wood /l             172      172     172     289      313     527      822     910      934     785      728    305    171
Staff Salaries /1  107      107      107     107      107     107      107     107      107     107      107    107    107
Equtpment and
Investments /d    126      126      126      97       93     126      89      114     138      164     146    144      70
Recurrent
Costs Id /a        312     312      312     312      312     312      312     312     312      312     312    312    312
Subtotal          717     717      717     805      825   1.072   1,330   1,443   1.491   1,368   1,293    868    660
Tot.al Inflows  2,312   2,310   2,308   3,476   3.717   5.960   8,939   9.864  10.134   8.629   8,025  3,687  2,244
OUIELLWS
Investment          635     635     635      488     468      631     448      575     694      825     731    722    350
Salaries            797     797      797     797      797     797      797     797     797      797     797    797    797
Operating Costs    900      900      900     900      900     900      900     900     900      900     900    900    900
Total Outflows 2,332   2,332   2,332   2,185   2,165   2.328   2.145   2,272   2.391   2.522   2,428  2,419  2.047
Current Surplus
(Doficit)        (20)    (22)    (24)    129   1.552   3,622   6,794   7,592  7,743   6.107   5,597  1,268    197
DAWLRUAIA1Y
IORD 1!             704     151
baLSntxlu
Interest /g        921      826      711     598     493      403     316      232     152       74
Principal /b      1,203   1,157   1,112   1.069   1,048   1,028   1,008        988     969      960
Comitment Fee/I       I       0
Subtotal       2.125   1,983   1,823   1.667   1,541   1,431   1,324   1,220   1.121   1,024
MET FINANCING (1,421) (1,832) (1.823) (1,667) (1,541) 11.431) (1,324) (1.220) (1.121) 01.024)
NET CURRENT
SURPLUS
(DEFICIT)    (1,441) (1.854) (1,847)   (376)       11   2,191   5,470   6,372   6.627   5,083   5,597  1,268    197
CUKULATIVE
SURPLUS
(DEFICIT)     1,365    (489) (2.336) (2.712) (2,/ui)   (610)  4.960  11.332  17.954  23.037  28,634 29.902 30,099
/A  With project over without project.  Intflation rate of 0% till 1994; 4X thereafter till 1999. and 21 beyond.
/h Resulting from subsequent transformation; concerns industrial wood only production tax of 16.821.
If  Weighted average tax rate of 13.44%.
/d  Including duties.
/G  Weighted average tax rate of 34.63%.
/t  Oased on expected distursoent profile; slow disbursement rate due to delays In processing requests.
/2  Although loan Is on variable Interest rate terms, a rate of 81 on the average balaneo outstanding has been
assumed.
ll Payable In 13 equal installments assumed to occur at the end of tho year.
/I  At 0.25  oan undisbursed balance.  Includes f.ant end fee of 0.751 on entire loan amount.
*Si Iagt I



- 51 -
Table 8
Page 1
STAFF ApPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMEHT PRQJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Foreign Exchange Flow /A
1988     1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
---------------   (Current US$'000) -
Import Substitute Wood Pradgution /C
Poplar logs
Sawlogs/sawn timber /d                     964    2,535    3,963    4,042    4,123    4,205    4,289
Chipwood /I                                  -        60        75        76       78        79        81
Mining timber /I                           137       433       821      837       854       871       888
Subtotal                              1,101    3,028    4,859    4,974    5,055    5,155    5.258
Export Possibilif&Cs /g
Poplar lags                                  -         -         -         -         -
Mining timber                                -         -         -         -         -
Subtotal                                   -         -        -          -        -                   -
Bank Loan Recegot                          1,600    2,900    3,100    3.700    3,300    2,500    1,800
Total Inflows                         2,701    5,928    7,9.59    8,674    8,355    7,655    7.058
OuIfLw
EnLnDo-hAMDse
DenomiJated Exnitur.s
Vehicles & equipment                     3,130       763       371       S1       251       873       177
Plantations                                188      843    1,187    1,466    1,637    1,674    1,781
Works                                      167       453       380      424       475       456       422
Studies - T.A.                            473       477       269       226        18         9
Operation & Maintenance                    154      409       539       5S9       559       590       704
Subtotal                              4,112    2,945    2,746    2,726    2,940    3,602    3,084
Rebt-Service
Interest                                    64      244       483       756    1,036    1,145    1,193
Principal                                    -         -                        1,539    1,539    1,539
Comiwttnmnt fee                            198        42        34        26        17       10         5
Subtotal                                262       286       517       782    2,S92    2,694    2,737
Total Outflows                        4,374    3,231    3.263    3,508    5,532    6,296    5,821
NET SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                (1,673)   2.697    4,696    5,166    2,823    1,359    1,237
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS (DErICIT)         (1,673)   1,024    5,720   10,886   13,706   15,068   16,305
/A  Incremental.
/b  Or inflow equivalent, items resulting in a foreign exchange savings,
/I  Valued at average import price (CIF).
/I  includes 15% discount for quality considerations; weighted average across species.
/a  1989 figure represerts import of chipwood foregone.
1990 and boyond represents substitution of 25% particle board for sawn timber.
/t Maximnm 20,000 m3 per year (current imports).
/I  At FOB price.



- 52 -
Page 2
STAFF APPAIAL REMT
FORESAY OEVELOPnMT PROJECT
FIANCIAL AND ECQN I4! *MYSIS
Fgreign Exchange Flowu /A
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004   2005   2006   2007
--------------------------------------- (1994 US$0OOO) --------------------------------------------
INFL
Impact substitute
Icnd Preduction /L
Poplar logs           -       -       -        -       -     157      167     157      157     157     157    157    1S7
Sawlogsl
Sawn timber /a  4,289   4.289   4,289   4,774   4,831   5.170   5.5S0   5.656   S.680   5,324   S,236  4.612  4,491
Chipwood /a          S1      81      81      136     146     238      397     438     457      388     359    177      80
Mining timber /I   888      888     888      987     987     987      987     987      987     987     987    987    8ao
Subtotal      S,258   5,258   5.250   5.897   5,964   6,395   6.934   7,081   7,124   6,699   6.582  5,776  5,459
Elnart
enalsbil.LIAA Is(
Poplar logs                   -   -            -       -   1.167   2.460   3,120   3,120   3.120   2.815                -
mining timber         -       -       -       45      66      90      165     156      177      45      45     4S       -
Subtotal           -       -       -      46       66   1,257   2,625   3,276   3,297   3.165   2,860       4S       -
Bank Loan Receipt    900      200        -       -               -            -       -        -       -           -      -
Total Inflows 6,158   5.458   S.258   5.942   6.030   7.652   9,5S9  10.3S7  10,421   9.864   9.442  5.821  5.459
BUTEL0HS
Foreign Exchanag
dRndutrea
Vehic. & equip.                                -       -        -       -       -                    -       -      -
Plantations           -       -       -        -       -       -        -       '       -        -       -
Works                         -        -       -
Studios -T.A.         -       -       -        - T- -A
Operating costs    700      700     700      300     300     308      300     300     300      300     300    300    300
Subtotal        700      700     700      300     300     300     300      300     300      300     300    300    300
Interest         1.133   1,016      875      736     606     496      389     28S     187       91       -      -       -
Princtpal        1.480   1,423   1,368   1.315   1,289   1,264   1,240   1,21S   1,192   1,169           -       -      -
Ceninitnt fee         I       0       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -
Subtotal      2,614   2,439   2,243   2,051   1.895   1.760   1.629   1.500   1,379   1,260           -              -
Total
Outflows    3,314   3.139   2.943   2,351   2.195   2.060   1,929   1.800   1,679   1.560         300    300    300
NET SURPLUS
OEFICIT)   2.844   2.319   2,315   3,591   3.835   5.592   7,630   8.S7   8,742   8.304   9,14z  5.521  5.159
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS
(OEFICIT)       19.149  21.468  23,783  27,357  31,209  36,801  44,431  52,988  61,730  70.034  79,176 84.697 89,856
/a Incremental.
Jb  Or inflow equivalent. items resulting in a foreign exchange savings,
/c Valued at average import price (CIF).
/d includes 15% discount for quality considerations; weighted average across species.
/Ig 1989 figure represents import of chipwood foregone.
1990 and beyond represents substitution of 26% particle board for sawn tilbr.
/I faxtimwa 20,000 m3 per year (current imports),
/9  At FOB price.
43231)



- 53 -
Table 9
TAFF APPeASSAL REPRInT
TUNISIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PoJ[CT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYStS
Total Direct Project Related Emlaymunt Creatign
(In man-years)
Total
1906     1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994   Project Period
Skilld LW
Engineers                                 5        9        11        10       10         9        9
Supervisors - Technicians                30       SS        65       59        58        54       53
Other Skilled Labor /_ _t2                       llt                121       ll       II la  lt
Subtotal /l                             117      210       249      242       242       232      229         1.521
Contractors' Labor Requirements /2  _41          J06                1Q6      ln       l        Jl _ZI
TOTAL                             us41               31        am8      3m        au        aul         1.1
.L-killed Labor
Exploitation                            152      270       292       239      214       184       172
Plantattons                               -      114       286      463       600       654      683
Pasture Establishment                   100       62        62       'r7       57        57       57
Regeneration                            41       159    -AU        __S      _04    __5    --...
Subtotal /b                            293       800    1.113    1.318    1,466    1.520    1.S80            8,090
Contractors' Labor Requirements Jt   1U        __2       __w 22       M 1    .I31    -..12 l.4               1gU2
TOTAL                             us    31          41       LI       A.=       1.M       LOW          14
/a foremen, vehicle and equipment operators.
lh OF and OREf for exploitation; total requtraants for other conponent.
/G For exploitation only.
Ug:  1 man-year Is assuied to be 380 man-days for unskilled labor, and
250 man-days for skilled labor.
)21YE/a27



- 54 -
Table 10
STAFF APPkAESAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Projet de D6veloppement Forestier et Lutte contre la Desertification,
FAO - 2 volumes, March 1986
2. Evaluation and Review of Proposal made by FAO concerning the National
Forest and Pastureland Inventory in Tunisia, Alf Oskog - Nov. 1986
3. The Tunisian Wood Market, L Morenzi - January 1987
4.  Pr6paration du VII Plan - Rapport de la Sous-Commission des Forets et de
la Conservation des Eaux et des Sols, Ministry of Agriculture - July 1986
5.  Projet d'Extension et de Consolidation des P6pinieres Forestieres,
Ministry of Agriculture - July 1986
6. Projet du Centre National de Production de Semences de Tunis, Ministry of
Agriculture - July 1986
7. Reboisement de Hautes Production dans le Secteur Agricole, Ministry of
Agriculture - Sept. 1986
8. Projet d'Amelioration des Plantations Artificielles, Ministry of
Agriculture - Sept. 1986
9. Projet de Developpement des Plantations Rurales dans les Governorats de
Beja et Jendouba, Ministry of Agriculture - November 1986
10. Strategie a Adapter pour la R6gen6ration des Forets Naturelles, I Vol. + 4
annexes - Ministry of Agriculture - Sept. 1986
(  2 alE7



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORESTRY OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imnrlen7ntation Schedule
198                                 0             1991                .                                1994
Forest Regeneratior    (ha)                      0.0 000   r                      _3300            3300 _3                                             3300.
P1 antatx cn Th inni ng   S ha)                 -sG-   500                  _-tO        _         RO                  850_ __         BS830      __  85Q
Regeneration/Fellirg  ('000 Wn)                                                                         F- 020  3         a8SJo 
Plantation PThiratiog  (ha)                     -SIISo                            1T                   1                               500o             500
ftechanized Plantation (ha)                 -      -      -       l               1300      _01600                -     0 l
Riverrain Plantation  (ha)                                                         400 - 31 3450    1_                             _ Soo  So            So
_____ ,_,,                                                               _  vFEJ~~IILIIILIIIIz
'1



L~~~LWo am"
O"A.                    *m        *sA.E                                                                *4ae. sa.44°
S."4                                        p Q#                                4
*AhUAqjS*,~
LINOd3 'JYSlYddY Aavas
I~ 3JU49



- 57 -
Chart 3
STAF APPRAESAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPOM PROJECT
DREF Organiation Chad
Ministere de
l'agr*culture
Direction de 1U regie
d'expbt. foresffere
.    *           ~ ~~~~Sevc des
Sous-direction                           affaires
techq                              atnXistratilfes et
ftancieres
Service deli        Service des
programmation et    ventes et des
sui1i des travax    mutorlsatlons



MAP SECTION
.,                    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



8"                                      9'                                      1U-i
- BZERTE
0               -3
0W.ateur
Tabark~a
Tabarka   7                                          -  ARIANA         La
C  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Goulette                                                     o Kelibia
¶) < jAIN  URAHs.                                           TUNIS®  --BEN
,'AROUS
)i  N E     J00 3 BA                                                      0
? '    't      2                  DX { ~~~~~~~EBao~
'3 JENOOUB     Salemn                                       ZAGHO NX Korba
-a59    .  _,                   du  2      O                           NABEUL
",v}s    ,         '             -                           Fahs0                  -         Hammamet
<  a   EL  9 Es  EL  KEF                                    1; -  -..Ennfidhac
*36            -                       |    0                               SILIANA             -
GtMakWTer  '                                                    SOUSSE
---      '                        /:        a              <     s MONASTIR
L                       +' Kalt'a                                                      KAIROUAN,.   ..
ID le tetW  ;  . .  - . ; ^ .  ^  '   .  ' ti .   A                                   -      ' >         '      @ MAHDIA
K- KASSERINEE^J
Sbeitla-'                 X                                            -:-
.KASSERINE.
35..v                        SIDI0  BU
?0i          erjana              4    /      ZID
)6riana  ,                            .FAY



(#1 ,f>  ,   v~ -                                                               JX  9                                                                 |Mahr&S
I.  .;.~~~~~~~~~~C27~~~~~\    ~0                                25         50        75
MgtISOUI >Ez t  b S    X           -~   j-^ <             /J                              O         KILOMETERS
, . MX~t'laoui B--hR\    
34e                                              j*                                                                                                                          34e
'}   N   ~~~~~ *   ' ;t/            \                           _          '~~~~~GABES
?Netta oss <s2,;r-
|  00ffi9& 5         /                        ~~~~~~~-,SGBELLI                                  
|   *  N       /J            ' < tM<EOENINE
NeIta .- -                                                                                          . -e                                                     34,  -  0 s  . .  :.. ,
-33                                 T U N I S I A                                                      Q                    ,                     <sTU SA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                         TATAOUNINE    '    ( -
Project 
Mechanized Reforestation                 Salt Lakes                                                                                            ,     <
Forest Management                        Ports
G3      Nature Corservation                      Rivers
EL KEF    Regeneration Area                                                                                                            1             7 -
-.     Nursery
__      Range Management                         Main Roads
Riverine Plantations               °    Cities and Towns
@    Governorate Capitals                                                                    1 *I.
Oak                                  ®     National Capital                                                             Area  c .a   TN!SA
' -^ ^    Aieppo Pine                     -  - -  Governorate Boundaries
Esprto   Grass                    ---      Intern ational BoundariesA                                                    G   R
Esparto Grassi
g -S2   Other Forest/Scrub                                                                                    32 .                        , . D T . a        _
C)                      s                                             al' , -,,, ' ee a '0aE at   .  ,,.'    .aa,    ,aw   -o,    r                        . 7  1   ~   -
C3''                                                                                                                                32t§"p- F-^/z¢  K....... -<  
'a 8-  9                             t°              > raJena, -      N>        , NIGER  r> CHAD             CO ,
co   ~ ~ ~~~8                                                 'To Jenaten



