Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2870 TUN
                  (Forestry Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 28, 1987
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2870 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  28,  1987,  between  REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "DF"  means  the  Directorate   of  Forests  within  the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (c)  "DREF"  means  the  Directorate  of  Forest Exploitation
within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (d)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit within DF;
     (e)  "FCC" means the  Forestry  Coordination Committee within
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (f)  "INRF"  means  the   Borrower's  National  Institute  of
Forestry Research;
     (g)  "CFPR" means the Professional Training Center of Remel;
     (h)  "MIS" means Management Information System;
     (i)  "Code" means the code to  be promulgated by the Borrower
for the regulation of the forestry sector; and
     (j)  "Program of Actions"  means  the  program  stated in the
Borrower's letter to the Bank, dated September 1, 1986, describing
the actions to be taken by  the Borrower for the adjustment of its
agricultural sector.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  in the Banque
Centrale de Tunisie on  terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such date as the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
Page  3
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Agriculture with  due diligence and efficiency and
in  conformity   with   appropriate   agricultural   and  forestry
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, faci-
lities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1990, or such  later  date  as  shall  be  acceptable to the Bank,
complete the inventory of forest and pasture resources and furnish
to the Bank for review and comment the master plan for development
of  forestry  resources  prepared  pursuant  to  Part  E.1  of the
Project.
     Section 3.04. In order to  carry  out Part E.3 of the Project
the Borrower shall, not later  than  December 31, 1988: (a) sign a
protocol with INRF, providing,  inter  alia,  for the inclusion of
applied research  themes  in  the  areas  of  sylviculture, forest
utilization, economy  and  protection,  and rangeland development,
in  INRF's  work  program;  and  (b)  ensure  the  preparation and
implementation by CFPR  of  a  training  program  for the staff of
DF and DREF in forest exploitation.
     Section 3.05.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain, during Project execution, the PMU and the
Page  4
FCC with the functions and staff  set  forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                 Financial and Reporting Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit con-
               tains a separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the
Project, cause the PMU  to:  (a)  prepare bi-annual reports on the
progress of the Project  in  accordance  with a format agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank; and (b) furnish said reports to
the Bank not later than two months after the end of the period for
which said reports were prepared.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30
of each year during the period of Project execution furnish to the
Bank the draft annual budgets and financial plans for the Project,
Page  5
for the following fiscal year.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1988, ensure that DF and  DREF  shall: (a) have an operational MIS
and cost accounting  system  for  Project activities and accounts,
acceptable to the Bank; and  (b)  identify in their annual budgets
the cost of forestry programs financed under nationally subsidized
programs.
     Section 5.02. The Borrower  undertakes that new major invest-
ments in the forestry sector  shall be selected in accordance with
the criteria set forth in the Program of Actions.
     Section 5.03. The Borrower undertakes:
     (a)  not later than December  31,  1988, to open its auctions
for all categories of wood to all licensed woodbuyers;
     (b)  not later than December 31,  1989, or such later date as
shall be agreed upon between  the  Borrower  and the Bank, to sell
cork through auctions, open to both the parastatal and the private
sector; and
     (c)  to determine each year, starting with the year 1989, the
reference prices for all types of  wood to be sold by the Borrower
directly to wood users, on the  basis of the prices obtained under
wood auctions undertaken in  the  preceding  year, and taking into
account the ability of such users to pay.
     Section 5.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  estimate the operation and maintenance costs of pastures
improved under Part D.3 of the Project; and
     (b)  by December 31, 1991 or such  later date as the Bank may
agree, devise a procedure acceptable  to the Bank for the recovery
of such costs from  the  beneficiaries  of such improved pastures,
and taking into account their ability to pay.
                         ARTICLE VI
                 Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Loan Agreement,
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower shall have:
     (a)  promulgated the Code; and
     (b)  created within DF  a  unit  to  execute  Part E.1 of the
Project.
     Section 6.02.  The  date  120  days  after  the  date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                         ARTICLE VII
          Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Planning  and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  6
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere du Plan et des Finances
          Place Ali Zouaoui
          Tunis
          Republic of Tunisia
                                             Telex:
                                               MIPLAN 15117 TUN
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                   By /s/ Ismail Khelil
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Wilfried P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works (for               2,400,000         100% of foreign
     items other than                           expenditures and
     those provided                             50% of local
     under Category                             expenditures
     (2) below)
(2)  Plantations,             7,100,000         100% of foreign
Page  7
     soil preparation,                          expenditures and
     seeding and                                40% of local
     tending under                              expenditures
     Part B.1 and 2 of
     the Project
(3)  Equipment,               6,000,000         100% of foreign
     vehicles and                               expenditures and
     materials                                  70% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Consultants'             1,400,000         100%
     services and
     training
(5)  Unallocated              3,100,000
                             __________
          TOTAL              20,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Nothwithstanding the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawal  shall  be  made  in   respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,000,000 may be made under  Category  (3)  in the table shown in
paragraph 1 above for  expenditures  made  prior  to that date but
after June 15, 1987.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  upgrade  planning
and development  of  the  Borrower's  forestry  subsector through:
(a)   increased   fuelwood   and   industrial   wood   production;
(b) improved forest grasslands  and range management to compensate
for grazing  lost  due  to  closing  of  forest  lands for natural
regeneration and planting; (c)  reduced soil erosion and increased
water retention to protect productivity of agricultural lands; and
(d)  preservation  and  expansion  of  the  Borrower's  nature and
wildlife,   thus   complementing   the   country's   cultural  and
recreational facilities.
     The Project  consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Forest Exploitation and Regeneration
1.   Thinning of about 50,000  ha  of existing conifer plantations
over 15 years old;
2.   exploitation and regeneration of  about  21,000 ha of natural
forest;
3.   improvement of public sector  forest exploitation through the
provision of equipment to the DREF; and
4.   promotion of the role of the private sector in forest exploi-
tation through training and demonstration by DF and DREF.
Page  8
Part B:   Forest Plantations
1.   Establishment, by mechanized techniques, of about 8,000 ha of
fast-growing forest plantations in three blocks;
2.   establishment of about 2,600  ha  of linear plantations along
the edges of rivers; and
3.   expansion of seedling sales to the private sector through the
improvement of seed  collection  and  the rehabilitation of forest
nurseries.
Part C:   Intensification of Forest Management
     Improvement of about 6,600 ha of highly degraded forest areas
through:
          (i)  construction of buildings,  fire  towers, roads and
               firebreaks, boundary  marking  and electrification;
               and
         (ii)  provision   of   transport,   fire   fighting   and
               communication equipment.
Part D:   Forest Pasture and Range Improvement
1.   Establishment of  permanent  pastures  over  about  700 ha in
humid and sub-humid areas;
2.   establishment of  permanent  pastures  over  about  400 ha in
semi-arid areas; and
3.   improvement of natural  pastures  in  forest zones over about
2,300 ha.
Part E:   Institutional Development and Support
1.   Preparation of a  national  inventory  of  forest and pasture
resources  and  of  a  master   plan  for  development  of  forest
resources;
2.   improvement  of  national   park  management,  environmental,
educational facilities and nature conservation; and
3.   improvement  of   forest   and   range  development  through:
(i) provision of  technical  assistance  in project management and
evaluation, accounting,  forest  inventory, research, conservation
and  training  in  Tunisia  and  abroad;  and  (ii)  provision  of
equipment to DF and DREF headquarters and to INRF and CFPR.
                             *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning April 1, 1992
     through   April 1, 2004                           770,000
On October 1, 2004                                     750,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
Page  9
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in  Part  C hereof, soil preparation works
for  mechanized  fast-growing  plantations   and  goods  shall  be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  works and goods
shall be grouped into bid  packages  estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $1,000,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Republic of
Tunisia may be granted a  margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and vehicles  estimated  to  cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or less per  contract  up  to  an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of  $4,500,000,  and  works other than those
provided for in Part  A  of  this  Schedule, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank,
which shall provide, inter alia, that:
Page  10
     (a)  no preference shall be granted  for purposes of bid com-
parison to any group of bidders;
     (b)  all bidders shall  be  treated  equally  in terms of the
requirements of furnishing bid and performance securities; and
     (c)  bids shall be opened in public.
2.   Goods readily  available  off-the-shelf  up  to  an aggregate
amount not to  exceed  the  equivalent  of  $800,000 and satellite
imagery may be procured  under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
3.   Road works, buildings  and  minor  civil  works, estimated to
cost in the aggregate  the  equivalent  of $1,000,000 or less, and
seeding,  planting  and  tending,  may  be  carried  out  by force
account.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  the  first  contract  for goods and the
first contract for works, and  thereafter each bidding package for
works estimated to cost the  equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and
each bidding package for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d)  shall  be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the prece-
ding paragraph, the procedures set forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall  employ  management,  agricultural and forestry
consultants whose qualifications, experience  and terms and condi-
tions of  employment  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the  Bank  on  the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of  Consultants  by  World Bank Borrowers and by
The World Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
Page  11
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible   Categories"  means  Categories  1
through 4 set forth in the  table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from  the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Autho-
               rized Allocation.
Page  12
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank for
crediting to the Loan Account)  an  amount  equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit by the  Bank  into the Special Account shall be
made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                  Forestry Coordination Committee
                    and Project Management Unit
Section I:  Forestry Coordination Committee
1.   Membership
     The  Forestry  Coordination  Committee   shall  have  as  its
president the  Secretary  General  of  the  Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture and shall have the following members:
A.   From the Ministry of Agriculture:
     a.    the director of Forets;
     b.    the director of the Regie d`Exploitation Forestiere;
     c.    the director of Planification, Statistiques et
           Analyses Economiques;
     d.    the director of Affaires Foncieres et de Legislation;
     e.    the director of Conservation des Eaux et du Sol;
     f.    the director of INRF;
     g.    a representative of the Office Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-
           Ouest; and
     h.    the director of Enseignement, de la Recherche et de la
Vulgarisation;
B.   From the Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agro-
     industries:
     a.    the director of Production Vegetale;
     b.    the director of Production Animale; and
     c.    the president directeur general of the Office de
           l`Elevage et des Paturages; and
Page  13
C.   a representative of the Ministry of Planning and
     Finance.
2.   Function
     (a)   Review,  coordination  and  monitoring  of  annual work
programs of the departments  involved  in forestry development, in
particular their activities relating to the Project.
     (b)   Evaluation of such programs within the framework of the
medium-term agricultural adjustment program of the Borrower in the
forestry sector.
3.   Meetings of the Forestry Coordination Committee
     The Forestry Coordination  Committee  will  meet at least two
times each year. The PMU  will  function as the secretariat of the
Forestry Coordination Committee.
Section II:  The Project Management Unit
1.   The PMU, to be established  within  DF,  shall be headed by a
full-time Project  Manager.    The  Project  Manager  shall report
directly  to  the  Director   of   DF,   who  shall  have  overall
responsibility for Project implementation.
2.   PMU shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
     (a)   supervision and implementation of the Project;
     (b)   coordination of all  Project-related activities by each
of  the  Borrower's  departments   and  agencies  responsible  for
carrying out the Project;
     (c)   the organization of the  training program to be carried
out under Part E.3 of the Project; and
     (d)   implementation of the Project's operational plans.
3.   The Project Manager  shall  be  assisted  in carrying out his
responsibilities by  an  organization  and  management  expert, as
required, and adequate support staff.
4.   The Project Manager shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
     (a)   the coordination of the  recruitment of consultants for
the Project;
     (b)   the coordination and  assistance  in the preparation of
documents for procurement;
     (c)   coordinating Project responsibilities with the Director
of DF and the departments and agencies concerned;
     (d)   coordinating and assisting  in  the  preparation of the
separate accounts  for  the  Project,  withdrawal applications and
statements of expenditure required  to  be  furnished to the Bank;
and
     (e)   the preparation  and  furnishing  to  the  Bank  of the
plans,  schedules,  reports  and  records  and  other  information
required  to  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  the Loan
Agreement and the General Conditions.
