Dowunent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
eg. 14W34 -(j
Repst No. P-3680-GN
REPORT AIND  NA   DTON
oF TE
PrSIET  OF THE
D}N UNUTIONL DEVEOPENT A SO0CIATIION
EXECUTIVE DIECLOS
ON A
PPOSED DEVELOPMET CREDIT
OF SDR 11.0 NIELIOl
TO THE
REPULIC OF THE GABIA.
FOR AN
U-B1 lM NEM   AIMD DEVELOPENT PROJECr
February 8, 1984
Urban Division
Western Africa Proiects DePartment
Ti_ demin km a usgucdd db&Rdm .i may be md by heipin IY ela dI Peuumm e Or
irehl dlis It   I - may no oihewbe be dhdme width  Wodi Bunk au_hodt.



CUREET EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =       Dalasi (D)
USS1.0                        U USS0.40
D1.C    -             =       Bututs C00
SDR 1.0                       USS0.96
WEIGHTS AND EASmRS
i kilometer (km)              0.62 miles (mi)
I sq. kilcmeter (km2)  =      0.39 square miles (mui2)
I hectasre                    2.4 acres
I acre                =       0.4 hectares
ABBREVIATIONS AUD ACRONYNS
BCC        Banjul City Ccoucil
FRM (GTZ)  Geselleschaft fur Technische Zrsmenarbeit (German Agency fer
Technical Cooperaticn)
GUC        Gambia Utilities Corperaticn
iCC        Inter-agency Coordination Committee
ISK        Kcabo-St. Mary
KUDC       Kanifing Urban District Council
NDI        Nanagement Development Institute
3EPID       Ninistry cf Econcmic Planning and Industrial Development
NLGL       Ministry fcr Local Government and Lands
PCU        Project Coordinating Unit
P9D        Public Yorks Department
SSHFC      Social Security and Ecusing Finance Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
July 1   -   June 30



FOR OMFCUL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
URBAJ KAJAGEXENT AND DEVEL0MMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:           Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiary:        Ministry fcr Lccal Gcvernment and Lands (XLGL) and the
Social Security and Hcusing Finance Corporation (SSHFC)
Amount:             SDR 11.0 million (USS11.5 millicn)
Terms:              Standard
On Lending Terms:   Gcvernment would cn-lend USS 3.0 million to the SSHFC at 7
percent, with the remainder passed on to the MLGL,
including Banjul City Ccuncil (BCC) and Ka-ifing Urban
District Council (&UDC) as a grant.
Project
Description:      The propesed project wculd [a) strengthen the finnucial,
eperational and managerial capacity of principal urban
institutions in the Greater Banjul area (Banjul, the
capital and environs) through training, technical
assistance, studies and the provision of essential equip-
ment, and (b) demcnstrate the feasibility cf improving and
extending deficient physical infrastructure in depresse"
areas and affordable serviced plots and core shelter for
lcw income beneficiaries. The project would directly and
indirectly improve the living conditicos of about 80,000
people threugh the provision cf improved water supply,
sanitation, roads, drainage, street and security
lighting. In the spirit of the Bank's Special Action
Program (SAP), a Special Account (revelving fund) would be
established under the project tc expedite disbursements.
Project Benefits
and Risks:        The project would intreduce policies and reforms fcr
managing the Greater Banjul area, thus enhLncing its role
as a center of emplcyment and prcductivity, while
providing increased support tc agriculture, industrial and
tcurism development. Other benefits include improvements
to city finances, resulting from revaluaticn of property,
imprcved health and access fcr the bulk of urban residents
in Greater Banjul, strengthened institutions and better
trained personnel.
This do_ment has a restritd dbution and may be used by rcipints only in the perfornce of 
theu ofid dutiests cntents may not otherwee be dilosed wthout Word Bank authowization



- ii -
Because a central project objective is to improve the
executing capacity of existing departments, a separate
project unit would not be established for this project.
Instead, an existing section in the Ninistry of Economic
Planning and Industrial Development would be upgraded into
a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). As a result, the
Director cf the PCU would have more of a coordinating
rather than an executive function. There is therefore a
risk of some initial loss of efficiency in execution of
physical works. To minimize this risk, the Director was
selected early and participated in the negotiations.
There is the related risk that the training and technical
assistance will not have the intended long-term impact.
However, given that the primary objective of the project
in the Government's mind is institutional development, asd
given the effort made at tailoring these programs to The
Gambia's needs, the risk is worth taking. In addition,
the relatively new Social Security and Housing Finance
Corporation (SSEFC) would introduce for the first time in
The Gambia measures for recovery of land and infrastruc-
ture investments through plot sales and it is possible
that resistance to such cost recovery may develop. The
fact that the SSHFC is relatively strong, is committed to
financial profitability and has the suppport ef the
Government, minimize these risks.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs:
(Uss million)
Foreign   Local     TOTAL
Urban/Municipal Institutional Development   1.8       0.9       2.7
Infrastructure Improvements/Extensions
and Land Development                       4.7      2.8       7.5
Project Management/Coordination and
Future Preparation                         0.5      0.4       0.9
TOTAL BASE COSTS (including taxes)       7.0      4.1      11.1
Less Taxes                                    -       0.8       0.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS (net of taxes)          7.0      3.3      10.3
Contingencies - Physical                     0.4      0.2       0.6
- Price                       1.0       0.5       1.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      8.4      4.0      12.4
Financing Plan:
Percentage
us5 (million) _    of Total
Foreign    Local     Total   Project Cost
IDA                   8.4       3.1       11.5          93
Govt.                   _0.9               0.9           7
8.4       4.0      12.4          100
Estimated Disbursements from the
IDA credit (US$ million):
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Annual             1.6 a/ 1.6    2.4    1.9    1.6    1.3    1.1
Cumulative         1.4    3.2    5.6    7.5    9.1   10.4   11.5
Economic Rate of Return: 31%
Staff Appraisal Report:   4628-GM
Map;                      IBRD No. 17349
a/ Includes refinancing of Project Preparation Facility advance of US$995,000
approved under the project.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA FOR AN
URBAN NANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment Credit to the Republic of The Gambia for SDR 11.0 million equivalent to
help finance an Urban Management and Development Project. The Credit would be
on standard IDA terms. The Credit would be made to the Government of The
Gambia, which would on-lend SDR 2.9 million to the Social Security and Housing
Finnnce Corporation (SSHFC) for 15 years, including 5 years grace, at
7 percent.  Government would pass SDR 770,000 to the Banjul City Council (BCC)
and the Kanifing Urban Development Council (KUDC) as a grant. Remaining
project funds would be used by the Ministry for Local Government and Lands
(NLGL) and the Ministry for Economic Planning and Industrial Development
(MEPID).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report on The Gambia, dated December 23, 1980,
has been Circulated to the Executive Directors. Its conclusions, updated by
the findings of subsequent missions, are reflected in the following assessment
of the state of the economy and its prospects. Country data appear in
Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.       The Republic of The Gambia comprises a narrow east-vest strip of land
bordering the Gambia River and surrounded on three sides by the Republic of
Senegal.  The terrain is extremely flat, maximum elevation being only 35
meters above sea level. Three regions can be distinguished from the mouth of
the River inland: the mangrove belt, which extends upstream for over 240 km;
the 'bantofaros", areas which become swamps in the rainy season and parts of
which are under rice cultivation; and, finally, the plateau of the eastern
portion of the country which is intensively cultivated in groundnuts, millet,
and other crops.
4.       The population (about 617,000 in 1982) is predominantly rural, some
80 percent of the work force being engaged in agriculture and animal husbandry.
Population pressure in the rural areas is high, with an average density of
137 per km2 of arable land. Population density and persistently disappointing
harvests have in recent years prompted emigration to urban districts and
aggravated urban employment particularly in and around the capital and
commercial center of Banjul.



-2-
Structure of the Economy
5.       The Gambian economy is traditionally centered on the production of
groundauts, its major foreign exchange earner and the base of its only signif-
icant processing industry, groundnut milling. Apart from groundnuts, cereals
(millet, sorghum, and rice) and livestock represent the principal products of
the agricultural sector. Despite the importance of agriculture in terms of
the share of the work force engaged, its importance in relatton to the
economy's overall octput has declined since the mid-1970's and currently
represents only about 30 percent of GDP. The trade and transport sectors,
reflecting the natural role of The Gambia as an entrepot for neighboring
countries together account for another 30 percent of the country's output.
Tourism, though the object of heavy investment in the past few years, has
shown disappointing results and presently accounts for less than 3 percent of
GDP.  Industrial activity is limited to two groundnut crushing mills and a few
modest manufacturing enterprises supplying the domestic market, all of these
located in Banjul.
Economic Performance and Financial Developments
6.       Throughout the latter 19-Os and up through 1981, major shortfalls in
groundnut production led the Gambian economy through a period of stagnation.
Average annual growth of the economy as a whole being negligible over the four
year period 1977/78-1980/81. I/ These shortfalls in groundnut productions
were owed principally to natural causes in that period-repeated drought or
unseasonal rainfall. They also reflected the accumulated consequences of
falling terms of trade for groundnut farmers and declining yields due to
deficiencies in seed handling and fertilizer application. By the 1979/80 and
1980/81 crop seasons, production was down to an average of only 64,000 metric
tons, less than half the average recorded just five years earlier.
7.       With favorable weather and moderate producer price increases, ground-
nut production has recovered by 50 percent in each of the past two crop years
and pushed overall growth of the economy to rates of 10.9 percent in 1981/82
and 5.4 percent in 1982/83. The improvement notwithstanding, average per
capita income in 1982 was a mere $370 in current prices, and in real terms per
capita incomes were no higher than they had been nearly ten years earlier.
8.       The Gambia continues to suffer from a severely weakened financial
position which emerged in the latter 1970s. Government revenue levelled out
beginning 1978/79, and budgetary savings turned negative as of 1980/81. A
doubled capital spending program in the latter 1970s, though heavily foreign
financed, has subsequently added pressure on Government budgetary resources
already narrowed by economic stagnation and no longer supplemented by
surpluses of the groundnut marketing monopoly, GPNB, as had been the case up
to 1979. On the external account, balance of payments deficits widened
beginning 1977/78 as groundnut exports faltered. By the end of 1979, net
foreign reserves had fallen to a modestly negative position for the first time
since Independence (1965) and proceeded to decline steadily thereafter. As of
1/   Corresponding to the fiscal year ending Ju-ae 30.



March J983, net foreign assets of the banking system had dropped to negative
D 64 million (US$63.5 million), equivalent to 70 percent of annual merchandise
imports.
9.       In an effort to stem the growing deficits, the Government undertook
an IMF Stand-by program in February 1982 (SDR 17 million) under which a wide
number of measures were taken, including the upward adjustment in producer
prices for groundnuts, referred to earlier and in selected retail prices and
interest rate3, as well as limitations on dcAestic bank credit and external
borrowing. Given the persistence of public sector deficits and the country's
*        vu'.nerability to a downward shift in groundnut export earnings, however, the
Gambian Government will need to intensify remedial measures in price policy
and credit administration in particular, in order to restore financial
*        stability.  Towards that end, the Government is considering a follow-up INF
program which it hopes to see in place by early calendar year 1984.
Investment Policy, Development Options and Constraints
10.      The generally weak performance of the Gambian economy in recent years
is in large part a consequence of persistent drought. Nontheless, inadequate
attention was given in the 1970s to providing appropriate producer incentives
and the institutional environment necessary to stimulate agricultural produc-
tion. Also public investment policy through the 1970s neglected the directly
productive sectors, notably agriculture. Under the current Second Five-Year
Plan (1981/82-1985/86), the composition of the investment envelope marks an
important departure from earlier priorities in transport and communications
and places prime emphasis on the agricultural sector, which accounts for 28
percent of total investment envisaged, as against only 16 percent of that
realized in the First Plan period (1975/76-1980/81). The Government further
recognizes that the single crop, groundnuts, cannot be relied upon as in the
past to provide the resources needed to supplement its normal budgetary
receipts nr to support adequately the country's foreign exchange requirements.
11.      The options for diversification are limited and rest principally
within the agricultural sector itself. Scope for diversification is seen in
rice, cotton and livestock as well as fisheries. Pilot schemes in irrigated
cropping, especially in rice, are being undertaken to alleviate the foreign
exchange burden of importing some 30 percent of the country's cereal require-
ment. Commercialization of The Gambia's sizable livestock sector is to be
stimulated through a new pricing system and a major animal health and breeding
program with a view to expanding exports.
12.      While essential to establishing the basis of sustained growth of the
Gambian economy, such diversification measures are difficult to implement in
the highly traditional socio-economic context of The Gambia's rural sector,
and can be expected to exert their impact on the economy only over the longer
term. In the intervening period of transition, the Government will also need
to mount a new effort to ensure social infrastructure and services of accept-
able levels, particularly in the urban sector, which has seen rapid growth
over the past decade, but where the provision of housing and basic services
has not kept pace. The proposed project represents the Government's largest
single undertaking in urban areas, which is envisaged under the current
investment program.



- 4 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA
13.      To date, the Bank Group has financed nine IDA operations in The
Gambia totalling US$35.0 million equivalent. Of these, three were in the
transport sector, two in the rural sector and one each in the tourism, educa-
tion, rural and urban enterprises, and energy sectors. Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits as of September 30, 1983.
14.      Project implementation and disbursement performance for the few
ongoing operations have been generally satisfactory and compare reasonably
well with other countries in West Africa with similar profiles. The most
serious problems encountered in project execution have been overall weakness
in project administration, including irefficiency in keeping project accounts
and difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified local counterpart
personnel. However, Government has taken appropriate corrective action in
agreement with the Association whenever such problems have arisen. Moreover,
future IDA-financed operations, such as the proposed project, are being
designed with objectives better adapted to existing manpower constraints in
The Gambia.
15.      Un'il recently, Bank Group lending has been concentrated in expanding
and improving The Gambia's physical and social infrastructure which has been a
major bottleneck to economic growth. These efforts led IDA to finance an
education project in FY78, a highway maintenance project in FY79, and in 1982,
an energy project for accelerating hydrocarbon exploration and pover distribu-
tion, and a rehabilitation project for the port of Banjul. The Bank Group has
also supported the Government's effort in diversifying its economy away from
groundnuts by assisting the development of small and medium-scale rural and
urban enterprises and building up The Gambia Commercial and Development Bank
(GCDB) as a financial intermediary.
16.      The Government has recently shifted priority from the infrastructure
sectors to directly productive sectors, particularly agriculture and the
current Bank Group's lending strategy in The Gambia reflects this priority.
An agricultural development project has recently been appraised and is
scheduled for Board presentation in FY84. The project would be the third IDA-
financed operation in the agricultural sector.  The first operation (the
Agricultural Development Project) was completed in 1976. The second opera-
tion, the Rural Development Project, was also recently completed. Performance
of both projects was mixed.  They succeeded in developing much of the infra-
structure on which long-term agricultural development can be based. However,
crop production was below targets set at appraisal. The design of the
proposed ADP II project has taken into considerations the problems and lessons
of the previous projects. Production targets are conservative and particular
emphasis would be placed in strengthening local institutions. In other
sectors a proposed DFC II project would assist the further development of
small- and medium-scale enterprises and strengthen GCDB. A Greater Banjul
Water Supply project would reinforce the water distribution system in the
urban area and provide technical assistance and training to the Gambia Utility
Corporation (GUC). Finally, a road maintenance project is also being prepared
to improve road maintenance capability of the Public Works Department (PWD)
with emphasis on regraveling poor sections of roads.



-5-
17.      While the Second National Development Plan (1981/82-1985/86) gives
priority to the development of the directly productive sectors, Government
also realises that it can no longer neglect upgrading the small but vital
urban institutions and improving essential physical infrastructure and service
delivery, especially in the mare depressed townships. Government has taken
the v_ew that continued inadequate responses to these emerging problems in
urban centers are likely to further precipitate uncharacteristic social and
political unrest in the country. It is widely accepted, for example, that the
disturbances of August 1981 originated in some of the lowest income sections
of the Greater Banjul area. The Government has, therefore, requested Bank-
Group assistance in support of a program aimed at rehabilitating major urban
centers. The proposed urban management and development project represents
the first direct response by the Government and the Bank in the country's
urban sector.
18.      The Bank Group's share of The Gambia's o:tstanding disbursed external
public debt has declined from a peak of 44 percent at the end of 1976 to
16 percent at the end of 1952.
19.      In 1983, The Gambia became an IFC member.  IFC's first operation in
the country, a US$2.9 million loan to complete and open the Kombo Beach Hotel
in Banjul, which was left unfinished because of the bankruptcy of the
expatriate contractor two years earlier, was approved in October 1983.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
20.      Even with improved prospects for rural productivity, urban-based
domestic production will be central to The Gambia's economic growth targets.
Well over two-thirds of all wage employment and about one half of GDP is
generated by Government, trade, transport, agro-industry, tourism, and other
services located mainly in Greater Banjul. This pull of economic opportunity
has placed mounting obligations on public authorities to provide infra-
structure and basic services, which they have been ill-equipped to provide.
In absolute terms, the size of the urban population, which amounted to 140,000
in 1982, or almost a quarter of the total population, would appear to be of
little cause for concern. Yet in relative terms, the rapid rate of growth has
caused managerial and financial strains beyond the capacity of the relatively
poorly developed administrative structure.
21.      The average urban growth rate is almost twice the national average of
2.8 percent. The overwhelming share of urban growth is concentrated in
Greater Banjul, which accounted for 15 percent of the 1982 total population
and two-thirds of the totaal urban population. At its current 8 percent growth
rate per annum, Greater Banjul's share of the urban population would top
70 percent towards the mid-1990's, the urban population climbing from its
present level to an estimated 40 percent of the total population over the
same period.



- 6 -
22.      This pace of growth has already outstripped an inadequate network of
roads, drainage, water and sanitation infrastructure, increasing the costs of
economic activity for households, commercial users and Government. Disregard
for the timely provision and maintenance of infrastructure and basic services
imposes heavy investment and replacement costs, which Government can ill
afford. To the extent that the urban economy supports agricultural develop-
ment and is, itself, a driving economic force, the efficient management of the
urban se; lr becomes an important tool in the country's development strategy.
A. Urban Infrastructure and Shelter
23.      Over 70 percent of the population of Greater Banjul and most of the
area's poor live in deteriorating conditions in the northwestern part of
Banjul, and the Bakau-Serrekunda areas on the Kombo-St. Mary Peninsula,
stretching some 20 km beyond the city center. While the level and quality of
services is generally better in Banjul itself, sanitation is extremely poor,
particularly in the lower income, dense neighborhoods in the city center.
24.      Sanitation is a city wide problem, with drainage channels beyond the
main streets blocked with solid waste and collapsed walls. In outlying
Kombo-St. Mary, drainage is virtually non-existent in residential areas where
stagnant pools of water collect, fostering the spread of water-borne and
associated disease to a population with an already grim health profile. Waste
disposal conditions are singularly deficient. Conditions are particularly
serious within the market network which constitutes the economic hub of both
central Banjul and Kombo-St. Mary, contributing 40 percent of revenues to the
Banjul City Council (BCC) and thirty percent to the Kanifing Urban District
Council (KUDC). These markets have long since outgrown their original
structures, creating serious conditions of overcrowding and presenting major
problems of sanitation, ventilation and circulation.
25.      A practice of allocating raw land for house construction, without the
benefit of a structure plan, has put Government in the difficult and costly
position of attempting to finance the extension of basic services to these
areas after they are inhabited. Residential and commercial users are not only
inadequately served, but the level of existing services in many areas is fast
deteriorating because of the absence of any systematic maintenance. The pri-
vate sector has been the prime factor in house construction and is expected to
continue as such over the longer term. Recently, however, increased over-
crowding suggests that the absence of financing, the shortage and high cost of
building materials, and the inadequate supply of serviced land have slowed the
private sector response. Fewer than 2,400 new dwelling units were completed
and recorded in Greater Banjul during 1973-1978, compared to an increase of
4,700 households (6.3 persons per household) over the same period. Land,
which is vested in the State, is allocated to applicants for a period of
21 years on a largely 'ad hoc' basis. An annual ground rent is charged when
the lease is granted, but the rate structure has not been revised since 1974,
and there has been no pricing system to recover the costs of servicing the
land with basic infrastructure. Cumbersome bureaucratic procedures and
shortages of staff and skills have virtually paralyzed the system, further
impeding the Government's capacity to extend services to the population.



B. Urban Institutions and Government Policy
26.      The Government has only recently acknowledged the need to plan for
and manage urban growth as part of an overall development policy. Like other
small developing economies, The Gambia is ill-equipped to tackle the task.
Both public funds and managerial and technical skills are in critical short
supply and the institutional and policy framework is extremely fragile. While
the financial constraint is the most immediate obstacle to remedying the
infrastructure shortfall, effective investments over the longer term will
require a solid policy, an institutional framework, and able, dedicated staff,
if benefits of urban investment programs are to reach their intended benefi-
ciaries. It is for this reason that Government is seeking to strengthen the
institutional/policy framework as the first step in a phased approach to the
management of urban growth.
27.      At the national level, The Ministry of Economic Planning and Indus-
trial Development (MEPID) is responsible for ensuring that urban investment
and policy are consistent with overall development objectives.  The absence of
a comprehensive national urban policy and weak staffing have prevented MEPID
from fulfilling this goal in the past, although the Government intends to move
to rectify this situation. The Second National Development Plan (1981/82-
1985/86) introduced a policy which would envisage increased responsibility for
the execution of urban activities to the Ministry for Local Government and
Lands (NLGL), via a network of local authorities. The purpose of the shift is
to give greater autonomy to local governments and to reduce their financial
and administrative dependence on the central government. Local governments
would in principle carry the burden for ensuring the efficient development and
maintenance of urban areas. All of them, however, presently lack the
management skills, financial resources and manpower to carry out this task,
for which they were previously responsible.
28.      Over the past two years in particular, the finances of both BCC and
KUDC, the two largest local councils, have deteriorated dramatically. This
situation is in contrast to earlier years where both councils recorded opera-
tional surpluses in virtually every year. Rapid growth in administration and
personnel expenditures, poor financial management and falling revenue collec-
tion performance, and the failure to adjust revenue structures to price level
changes have all contributed to the decline frorm surplus to deficit operations
in both Councils. While rates and taxes have consistently represented an
average of 50 percent and 35 percent respectively for BCC and "UDC, incomes
have grown only modestly over the past five years. In addita-U, very poor
revenue collection performances have had a negative net impact on operating
and liquidity positions. It is estimated that total revenue arrears average
some 30 percent for BCC and 50 percent for KUDC of total budgeted revenues and
have been growing even more rapidly in recent years. For both Councils,
increases in actual recurrent expenditure over the past five years have
exceeded those of revenues (42 percent contrasted with 10 percent for BCC and
757 percent contrasted with 250 percent for KUDC). Virtually no capital
expenditure has been undertaken in either Council over this period, as they
have both been relieved of this function by the Central Government. Under an
advance from the Project Preparation Facility (para. 32) two financial experts
have been appointed to update BCC's and KUDC's financial records. It was



agreed during negotiations that an action program and a timetable for
improvement of revenue collection and reduction of arrears of BCC and KUDC
would be prepared after the consultants have completed their task and the
exact magnitude of the arrears is known.
29.      To ease housing finance pressures, the Government created the Social
Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC) in 19B1. The aim of this
institution is to facilitate access to credit oy lower income groups
previously denied adequate financing possibilities, as well as to spur the
efficient development of serviced land. The SSHFC derived its origin from the
State Pension Board (SPB) which was, prior to the creation of the SSHFC, the
institution responsible for managing pension funds of public servants employed
in government corporations. There are two Funds in the Corporation: (a) a
Social Security Fund and (b) a Housing Fund. All contributions received from
member corporations (20 percent of total employee salaries) are paid into the
Social Security Fund, and are subsequently invested in either government
securities or loans to members. Inheriting a profitable base from the SPB,
the SSHFC has continued to be a viable institution, both finnucially and
actuarially.  While presently the Corporation mobilizes the bulk of its total
gross revenues (77 percent in 1982) from contributions from its corporate
members, i-t intends to broaden its future resource generation capacity through
active pursuit of savings deposits, thus intensifying its likely contribution
to housing and land development in The Gambia.
PART IV - TEE PROJECT
Background
30.      Following a brief sectoral review by a Bank mission in August/Sept.ember
1980, d-scussions were held with the Government in early 1981 on a number of
issues and problems affecting the country's urban development. I/  Subsequent
to the 1981 coup attempt, the Government invited a Bnk mission to assess the
damage and to assist in the identification of a rehabilitation project. The
mission concluded that while damage was relatively mincr and did not justify a
reconstruction project, there was a need to begin a long-term effort to estab-
lish institutions that could provide miniucun levels of basic infrastructure
and services and to do this in a way that takes into account limited resource
availability. These recommendations subsequently generated a remarkable
degree of cooperation and coordination amongst a broad spectrum of donors.
The Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ) is providing assistance (US$700,000) in
urban planning and investment programming. The People's Republic of China and
UNInO are financing construction of a clay brick factory in Greater Banjul to
promote expanded employment opportunities and the use of low-cost, indigenous
construction materials (US$500,000).  The Italian Government has expressed
agreement to finance the upgrading and rehabilitation of the School of Public
1/   See "An Exploratory Survey of The Urban Sector ia The Gambia" (A Working
Paper)", Urban Projects Dept.. Jan. 1981.



-9-
Health (USS600,000). In addition, the UNDP contributed $20,000 toward the
financing of the cost of feasibility studies for the proposed IDA financed
project.
31.      When the program was originally identified, the treatment of the
various efforts listed above as one large project with a number of co-
financiers was considered. However, givenL the complexity of the individual
efforts, especially those related to institutional development, it was decided
with Government and other financiers, that separate but complementary projects
would be the most appropriate administrative arrangement. The substantive
impact is similar to that which would exist with joint financing in the Bank
project. Tie possibility that the Bank finazced project should be a smaller
exclusively hardware oriented project, without significant technical assis-
tance and training, was considered but was rejected because of the Govern-
ment's comm.itment to start a process of institutional development.  It was
also concluded that among the potential donors, the Bank was in the best
position to assist in this regard. (At appraisal, the EEC expressed an
interest' in co-financing loans for housing consolidation (about US$300,000),
but this position was later reversed, because of likely cost overruns on the
Banjul Sewerage Project, which is partly financed by the EEC and is now under
implementation.)
32.      The project was prepared with the help of consultants financed under
an advance of US$995,000 from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) granted
in two stages and a contribution of US$20,000 from the UDDP. Negotiations for
the proposed credit were held in Washington, December 5 to 8, 1983, with a
delegation from Government and the SSHFC. The Staff Appraisal Report No.
4628-GN is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary Project Data are in Annex III.
Project Objec ives and Description
33.      The proposed project has two main objectives:
(a) strengthening the Ministry for Local Government and Lands (NLGL),
Banjul City Council (BCC), KaDifing Urban District Council (KUDC) and
the Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC), to
improve management and operational efficiency; and
(b) demonstrating the feasi7ility of e-tending basic infrastructure, low-
cost and affordable serviced land dnd shelter to the bulk of the low-
income population, generating foreign savings wherever possible,
through the use of indigenous materials.
34.      The project would introduce two major urban sector policy reforms for
activities which have never existed previously or have been inadequately
implemented. These reforms would include:
Ca) Phased and systematic movement towards financial independence by
municipal institutions; and



- 10 -
(b) cost-recovery for infrastructure provided on site as part of land
sales.
35.      The project would consist of the folloving two compon;uts:
(a) Urban/Kunicipal Institutional Development. This component provides
for strengthening the planning, operational, and programming capacity
for a number of departments in the KLGL and the SSHEC through train-
ing, technical assistance, studies and the provision of basic
operating equipment. Funding would be provided for (i) strengthening
the registration, management and mapping operations in the Depart-
ments of Lands and Surweys, including a study of land administration,
pricing and development procedures in The Gambia; (ii) upgrading the
technical capacity of the Physical Planning Department, through two
organized local training courses for physical planning cadets under
the gaidance of a planning expert from the Co=monwealth Fund for
Technical Cooperation and a team of German specialists preparing a
master plan for the major urban centers in The Gambia; (iii)
improving the capacity of the Housing and Building Control Services
Department to formulate and implement national housing policy,
especially in the use of indigenous building materials and construc-
tion technology; (iv) providing a Director/Chief Technical Advisor
and Curriculum Advisor for the Management Development Institute
(MDI) 1/ to supplement insufficient UNDP funding over a two-year
period; (v) reviewing and strengthening the operational and financial
systems and procedures of the SSHFC, including the preparation of a
statement of operational policy and the identification of criteria
for the determination and adjustment of interest rates 2/ in the
Corporation and of housing subsidies in the sector as a whole; and
(vi) enhancLng the operational, managerial and financial capacity of
BCC and KUDC by revaluing 4,000 properties in the Greater Banjul
area, strengthening debt collectiQn units in BCC and KUDC, with a
view to reducing their significant arrears; strengthening badly
neglected maintenance capacities in both Councils, through the
preparation of model maintenance supervision contracts and
procedures; updating financial records, ten years out of date, for
both Councils and preparing technical manuals; and instituting local
1/ The MDI, the first of its kind in The Gambia, was set up with BDank
funding under the First Education Project (Cr. 792-GM). Funding under
the present project would be supplemented by the UNDP for about nine man-
months in PY84, in the initial period of the hDI's operations.  The
Institute would provide suitable facilities for assisting in aspects of
the locally funded programs, including the Project Launch Seminar under
the proposed project.
2/  To be undertaken in a specific study, findings of which would be
discussed with the Association, with a view to determining whether, and
the basis on which, the initial on-lending rates to beneficiaries of
housing loans of 9 percent under this project as wel" as future interest
rates should be adjusted.



- 11 -
government financial training courses for staff, with the assistance
of the MDI. To permit more efficient organization of the revaluation -
exercise couatry-wide Government has transferred BCC's and KUDC's
valuation units to the Lands Department to strengthen a small unit
there. A chief valuation officer would be appointed to head this
unit for -two and a half years. He would train valuation assistants
and implement revaluation work in Greater Banjul.
(b)  Infrastructure Improvements/Extensions and Land Development.
Essential infrastructure  and market improvements would be provided
to some 440 ha in the Bakau and Serrekunda areas on the Kombo
St. Nary peninsula (Greater Bmnjul). The proposed improvements and
extensions of basic utility services and infrastructure are expected
to benefit some 50,000 people directly and an additional 30,000
indirectly. In the Bakau area, about 40 ha would be upgraded,
through the provision of approximately 1.5 kms of paved roads, 2 krs
of gravel roads and improved drainage, reducing chances of flooding
and improving access for local residents.  The water distribution
system would be strengthened, the over-taxed, obsolete electricity
distribution system replaced and security lighting improved. The
sole market serving residents in the area would be extended and
improved sanitary facilities installed, including better drainage.
In Serrekunda, 400 ha would be upgraded including 14 kim of secondary
and primary access roads, and similar infrastructure improvements
(water, drainage, electricity, security lighting) as in Dakau. The
market would be extended into the existing car park area, relieving
congestion, while sanitation facilities would be improved. Two
boreholes would be reconstructed in the Sukuta well-field and spares
provided for The Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC) as part of
emergency rehabilitation works to boost rapidly declining water
aupply capacity for the increasingly densely populated area. The
largest retail market in The Gambia, built in 1856, would be
upgraded, with priority reconstruction and repair works being done on
drains, culverts, outfalls, footpaths and sanitation blocks, as well
as on a few delapidated sheds.
Seven hundred plots of land would be developed in the Kazaifing Ebast
area, the center of industrial activity in the Greater Banjul area
and located some 11 kms from the capital. Some 34 ha would be
serviced with water, drainage, access roads, refuse disposal services
and electricity. Modest community facilities would also be installed.
Plots, to be allocated exclusively to low income beneficiaries
(incomes of D 174 to D 700 per month), would range in sizes from
250 m2 to 350 m2. 'Seed capital' would be provided to the SSHFC to
assist the start up of its construction loans operations and to
permit low income beneficiaries access to modest housing credit,
ordinarily denied them in conventional banking channels. Housing
loans averaging US$2,500 each, would be available to some 75 percent
of total beneficiaries under the project to construct core housing
units on serviced plots. Emphasis would be placed in housing con-
struction on the use of local materials. A number of typical units
would be built to demonstrate practical use of these indigenous
materials.



- 12 -
Project Implementation
36.      As is normal for The Gambia, respon3ibility for coordination of the
proposed Credit rests with the Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial
Development (KEPID).  An existing 'Urban Desk' in the Ministry has been
upgraded and would serve as the Project Coordinating Unit, consisting of a
Director, Deputy Director and Accountant. The Director, a Kenyan
architect/planner, has already been appoiated and brings to the post a sig-
nificant amount of experience in this tyre of project, having worked on three
previous World Bank urban projects.  Tb,c Deputy Director, a Gambian economist
who has coordinated preparation of preect over the past year, has also been
appointed. The Accountant to be appointed in the PCU prior to credit effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)), would
ensure adequate recording, documentation and settlement of all project-related
transactions. Project accounts would be audited annually by an auditor
acceptable to IDA and audited statements would be submitted to the Association
within six months of each fiscal year-end (Section 4.01(c) of the draft DCA).
An Inter-Agency Coordination Committee (ICC), consisting of all project
executing agencies, has also been established to advise the Project
Coordinating Unit.  The ICC is chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MEPID
(Section 1.01(f) of the draft DCA). The MLGL and the SSHFC are the two
agencies primarily responsible for project execution.  Although one of the
major project objectives would be to build up a comprehensive operational and
managerial capacity within the main executing agencies, there already exists a
small core of talented professional and sub-professional staff, capable of
implementing the project with appropriate technical support.
37.      Execution of the institutional development component would be the
primary responsibility of the MLGL and the SSHFC. Given their critical role
in the project, special care has been taken to ensure adequate execution and
monitoring of the training and technical assistance, which were derived from a
list of priority needs prepared by the Government. Primary responsibility far
the execution of these project elements rests with the Departmental heads in
the project agencies. Responsibility for supervision rests with the Deputy
Director in the PCU and with a special sub-committee created within the Inter-
agency Coordination Committee (ICC) for this purpose (Section 1.01(g) of the
draft DCA). As has been recent practice, beneficiaries of the training
programs, to be conducted mainly in neighboring African countries, would be
bonded and required to serve their respective agencies for twice the length of
time for which they were trained. To ensure continuity and effectiveness in
the execution of the long-term oriented institiution building effort under the
project, qualified counterpart staff would be identified prior to the appoint-
ment of all technical assistance consultants, who would be primarily from
institutions in other African and Asian countries. Terms of reference for all
technical assistance contracts have been agreed upon at negotiations and
include adequate provision for forma' on-the-job training of local staff by
consultants. In addition, efforts would be made to enhance execution of
project technical assistance, through possibilities of 'twinning' between
local agencies and similar entities in more developed countries.



- 13 -
38.      Execution of all physical works would be done by the Public Works
Department (PFD), on behalf of the MLGL and SSHFC, except for the water supply
and electricit7 which would be installed through force account by the Gambia
Utilities Corporation (GUC). The two municipalities (BCC and KUDC) would
implement their respective sub-components, with general supervision from the
ILGL. In the case of the SSHFC, assurance3 were obtained at negotiations that
Government would consult with the Association prior to making any changes in
the Director of Housing for the SSHFC, as well as prior to: (a) undertaking
any new housing scheme costing more than D 5 million; and (b) transferring
more than D 500,000 per annum from the Social Security Funds Account (Sections
3.04, 4.03 and 4.04 of the draft PA).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
39.      Total project costs, excluding local taxes, are estimated at
US$12.4 million. The foreign exchange component is US$8.4 million, or 68
percen' of total project costs. Bstimated costs of civil works are based on
preliminary designs prepared by Government and a consultant engineer, using
unit prices provided by the Public Works Department (PWD), The Gambia Utili-
ties Corporation (GUC) and private contractors. Completion of the detailed
engineering for major civil works which has already commenced, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft DCA). Base costs
are calculated as at end of September 1983. Costs for technical assistance,
consultants and advisory services including fees, subsistence and travel are
based on recent experience at about US$8,000 per person-month on average for
foreign experts (fees, transportation, subsistence and accommodation) and
approximately US$1,000 for local experts (fees). Because of the historically
close movements in domestic and international prices, price contingencies for
both local and foreign costs have been calculated in accordance with Bank
guidelines for the expected increase of international prices of 7.8 percent
for 1983/84, 7-3 percent for 1984/85, 6.5 percent for 1985/86, and 6.0 percent
each for 1986/87 and 1987/88. These represen' an overall price contingency of
about 14 percent of total baseline costs. Physical contingencies are esti-
mated at 10 percent of the estimated base cost for all civil works, including
land development infrastructure (6 percent of total base costs). No physical
contingencies were estimated for housing credit, technical assistance, and
training. A summary breakdown of costs is shown in the Credit and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report.
40.      The proposed IDA Credit of US$11.5 million would finance 93 percent
of total costs net of taxes, including the entire foreign exchange cost,
estimated at US$8.4 million. About US$3.1 million of local costs would be
financed from the Credit in view of the country's serious financial con-
straints.  The total Government contribution, has been estimated at US$900,000
over the five year life of the credit. To assist in the completion of a
number of preparatory tasks (detailed engineering, aerial photography,
establishment of the Project Coordinating Unit and appointment of key tech-
nical assistance staff), US$995,000 was financed under the Bank's Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). The Government would dispose of the IDA funds as
follows: (i) US$3.0 million would be on-lent to SSHFC at an interest rate of
7 percent for 15 years, with 5 years of grace, US$0.8 million would be passed
on to BCC and MUDC in the form of a grant. Remaining funds would be utilized



- 14 -
within the Government's overall budgetary allocation by NLGL, GUC and MEPID
for technical assistance, training and equipment, infrastructure improvements
and project management and coordination respectively.
Procurement and Disbursement
41.      Procurement of vehicles, civil works (roads, drainage and buildings)
and electrical equipment for a total of US$4.7 million would be under Inter-
national Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Other civil works (markets,
community centers, fencing and taxi park resiting) for a total of US$1.2
million would be procured following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures.
Civil works connected with the rehabilitation of water works (US$0.3 million)
would be done by GUC's force account; office equipment (US$0.6 million) and
materials (mainly local) for housing credits (US$1.5 million) would be
procured following local shopping procedures. Rehabilitation of water works
including the drilling of two boreholes (US$0.8 million) would be done by
negotiated contract with one of the firms presently in The Gambia. All
procurement would be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines and/or procedures
acceptable to the Association (Schedule 4 of the draft DCA). Eligible
domestic manufacturers of goods and contractors would be given a margin of
preference of 15 percent, or the applicable customs duties if lower, and
7 1/2 percent respectively, in the evaluation of bids. All bidding packages
for ICB or 1CB contracts over US$200,000 would be subject to prior review by
the Association. Technical assistance (US$2.4 million) and training (US$0.9
million) would be procured individually or through reputable firms/agencies on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, in accordance with Bank/IDA
gvidelines.
42.      Disbursement would be on the following basis:  100 percent of total
expenditures for training; 100 percent of total expenditures for technical
assistance and consultancy services; 100 percent of foreign or 90 percent of
local expenditures for materials, vehicles and equipment; 85 percent of total
expenditures for civil works; 90 percent of amounts disbursed by SSHFC for
housing credits and 70 percent of local expenditures for the project operating
expenses. Disbursements would be made against full documentation, except for:
(a) locally procured office equipment under orders of less than D 1,000 each;
(b) force account civil works; and (c) housing credits. Disbursements for
these items would be made against certified statements of expenditure;
relevant supporting documentation would be retained in the respective
executing agencies and made available on request for review by visiting IDA
missions. A Special Account would be set up in US dollars in the Central Bank
of The Gambia, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SDR 240,000 equivalent from the IDA credit, representing expenditures for
about three months, would be deposited into the Account promptly upon the
request of the Borrower. At negotiations, the mechanics and details of the
opening of this account were agreed upon with Government (Schedule 2 of the
draft DCA).
Cost Recovery and Beneficiary Affordability
43.      The majority of project costs are for city-wide infrastructure and
technical assistance for which indirect cost recovery methods are normally
used rather than direct recovery from specifically identified beneficiaries.



- 15 -
However, in the new land development areas all on-site capital costs,
including the allocated portion of technical assistance, would be directly
recovered from beneficiaries through plot sales, except for the installation
of water lines (which would be dealt with through the GUC water tariff) 1/ and
for community facilities (which are not normally charged to beneficiaries).
This would be the first time such cost recovery would be achieved in The
Gambia. Off-site capital costs would be recovered indirectly through addi-
tional property taxes resulting from the revaluation work and increased
revenues from adjustments in tariffs for licences and market stalls. Other
infrastructure to be provided in the already built up areas of Kombo-St. Fary
and Serrekunda, would be similarly recovered through appreciation in property
taxes and market fees. In all, some 38 percent of total project capital costs
would be recovered through direct means, and the remainder through indirect
means as is appropriate for projects of this type.  The SSHFC would directly
recover all of its on-site investment costs, with the small amount of costs
for institutional stengthening (D 300,000) being indirectly recovered through
general local and central government revenues.
44.      All project executing agencies would substantially cover incremental
recurrent costs arising from the project within ten years of credit effective-
ness. ; DC's financial position has been less healthy than that of BCC's.
More stringent expenditures control and budgeting as well as higher annual
revenue increments would be needed to enable KUDC's to close its operational
deficit over the next ten years. Daring negotiations agreement was reached
that a gradual and phased program of reforms and adjustments to be discussed
with the Association would be instituted shortly. Government would agree to
annually review property rates and general tariffs, making adjustments as
necessary for price level changes. A schedule of such adjustments for the
first five years following Credit Effectiveness has been agreed upon at
negotiations (Section 4.04(b) of the draft DCA).
Environmental Impact
45.      It is unlikely that the proposed project would have any adverse
effects on the environment. On the contrary, it is expected that, as a result
of upgrading and infrastructure improvements to be financed, the project would
significantly enhance the quality of life in two of the largest townships in
The Gambia. Improved sanitation, access to potable water-supply, and better
shelter would be only some of the environmental benefits to result from the
proposed project.
1/   At appraisal domestic tariffs for water were D 2.00, D 2.67 and
D 3.00 respectively per 1000 gallons each for the first and second 5000
gallons and residual amounts beyond 5000 gallons (with a minimum charge
of D1O).  Since then, Government has approved a 15 percent price increase
for the second 5000 gallons and above of consumption. While for the
Corporation as a whole existing tariff levels are probably not fully
economic and are being addressed in on-going discussions with the
Association and Government, these rates are currently sufficient to
permit full recovery over time of investment costs for watee under the
project.



- 16 -
Project Benefits
46.      The proposed project is expected to contribute to The Gambia's macro-
economic development objectives, introducing policies and strengthening insti-
tutions which would permit the Greater Banjul area to be a more efficient
locus of output, employment, and productivity.  In this capacity, the capital
would be better able to provide support to agricultural and industrial
development, thus enhancing the foreign-exchange earning potential of urban-
based activities, which are essential to the country's overall economic
growth. In the calculation of the economic rate of return, benefits were
estimated as the likely rental values of new housing created for the land
development scheme and as increases in rental values for properties
benefitting from the infrastructure improvements extensions sub-component. In
both cases, costs include assignable shares of incremental investment and
recurrent expenditure, including allowance for maintenance. The aggregate
rate of return for the land development and infrastructure improvements/exten-
sions sub-components, (85 percent of total project costs) is 31 percent.
Other project components whose costs are not included in the above are for the
institutional strengthening of the NLGL, including the municipalities and for
the rating and revaluation of property work for which an RRR could not be
computed. Sensitivity tests show that the project is quite robust, even where
benefits are reduced by 30 percent or costs increased by 30 percent. In the
former case, the ERR would fall to 21 percent, while in the latter the ERR
would be 24 percent. In the highly unlikely event that costs would increase
by 30 percent and benefits would decrease by 30 percent simultaneously, the
ERR vould fall to 16 percent, still above the average opportunity cost of
capital in the country.
47.      Project benefits would be city-wide, although a major portion are
non-quantifiable. Unquantifiable benefits include the longer term benefits of
institutional strengthening and training which would assist Government to plan
for and manage urban growth as an integral part of the investment process.
Planned improvements in Greater Banjul's capacity to increase yields from
local taxes through a revaluation of property and better cost recovery would
unquestionably have a major impact on the capital's financial position and
hence its capacity to maintain existing investments and extend infrastructure
as the city grows. Investments in infrastructure under the proposed project
would directly affect some 66 percent of the population of Greater Banjul,
bringing (in addition to a pilot shelter scheme) water supply, roads, water,
drainage, and electricity into zones with little, if any, such services.
Commercial users, and therefore vital economic activity, would also benefit
from these investments. An important indirect benefit would be improvements
to the health status of residents in an urban area where many identified
illnesses, particularly among the 0-5 age group, have been traced to
deteriorating environmental sanitation caused by poor drainage and
polluted wells.
Project Risks
48.      The major risk associated with this project revolves around the
coordination and implementation arrangements. In an effort to develop the
institutional capacity of existing departments, a separate project unit was



- 17 -
not created (para. 34). Rather, implementation is the responsibility of
normal executing agencies. The Director of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) has only a coordinating function. Thus there is a risk of loss of some
efficiency in the execution of physical works to start with. However, in
light of the institutional objectives of the project, these risks are worth
taking. To minimize these risks, the PCU Director was selected early and
participated in negotiations. The project also provides a very comprehensive
program of training and technical assistance to further minimize risks.
49.      The project also accords a high priority role to the SSHFC which,
while rather new, would be expected to introduce low cost, affordable shelter,
as well as measures for substantial reeovery of land development costs through
plot sales. This has not previously been the practice in The Gambia and it is
*     possible that some resistance to such cost recovery may develop.  The prior
review of designs, the heavy emphasis on institutional development and the
fact that the management of the SSHFC is relatively strong, has the support of
Government and is committed tD financial profitability, minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of The
Gambia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the SSHFC, and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V. Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
51.      Special features of the draft Development Credit and Project Agree-
mentsare referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III to
this report. Special conditions of Credit Effectiveness are: (a) establish-
ment of a Special Account in the Central Bank; (b) execution and delivery of a
subsidiary agreement between Government and the SSHFC; (c) completion cf
detailed engineering for major civil works, including preparation of contract
documents; (d) the staff positions of the PCU have been filled by suitably
qualified and experienced persons.
52.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMKENDATION
53.      I recomnend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment Credit.
A.V. Clausen
President
Attacbment
Washington, D.C.
Eebruary 8, 1984



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
Ame  I
Page 1 of 5 page.
soA IN2LD _
GiBAHM  SRt           -SOCt4               MTA SUE
OSKIA  THE                          unca    ^OM   (ISIWSD aWUtAGI)   -
HoE?               t. tOSKS 33011W *SSlltU n)
ARM flURSAUs e.  )
TOAL                               11.3       .11.3        t. 
ACaIcIULtURAL                       4.0         3.9        4.3
CU. rlt  CPITa (5)                    90.0       140.0      370.0              25t.6                   1147.9
sum mmEmwO VCR curia
(tLOCtKS CS COAL IQUIVALEC)        7.0        4490      121.0                9.3                    72.2
wanOT10    AIID nsSTaTSTms
POPULATION,MID-YEAB (TRMSAIS)    327.0        450.0       4.0 6.
Ul3M POIPULATI0N ([ 0F TOTAL)      12.4        15.0       19.0               19.5                     20.5
POPLATION PWOJECTIONS
PoPuLATroV tN tAR 2000 (mx.N)                            0.9
*                STATIONARY PPOLATON (MILL)                                2.9
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                          2155
PoPULATION DENS!'?
PER Sq. E.                       28.9        39.5       52.3              29.5                      56.5
PM SQ. tO. ACRI. LASS            62.4       115.4      137.4              19.1                     131.R
POPLLATION ACE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 ERS                        42.3        44.0       44.5               45.0                     45.90
15-64 IRS                        54.2        53.1       52.5               52.1                    51.2
65 AID ARGUE                      3.0        2.9         3.0               2.9                      2.8
POPULATION CR00TW RATE (2)
TTAL                              2.          3.2        2.7               2.6                       2.J
URIAN                             3.4         5.1        4.:               4.2                      5.3
CRDE BIRTH RATE (PER TUOUS)          ..          ..       49.5              47.9                     47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER  mS)           ..          ..       27.7               19.2                     13.2
CROSS REROWUCTION RATE               ..          ..        3.2                3.2                     3.2
FAMLY PLANrNIc
ACCEPTORS. AZNIAL (TIWS)                      1.0
uSERS (C2 Or ARRIED t              ..          ..         .                  ..
INDEX OP FOOM PRC. PER CAPITA
(1969-71'100)                     101.0        93.0       75.0              87.8                     95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY O0
CALORIES ( OF REQUIREMENTS)     110.0       101.0       97.0               38.0                    97.1
PROTEINS (CRAMFS PER DAT)        43.0        38.0       58.0              51.2                     56.0
eF MUtCH Ax4$J. AND PtLSE       12.0        14.0       14.0ke             15.1                     17.2
CH0LD (ACES 1-4) DATH RATE         53_9        52.3       46.1              25.7                     23.6
WATE
LIFE EXPECT. AT HIRTA (tYEAS)        ..          ..       35.6              47.4                     51.9
INFAART WiRT. RaTE (PER THWOS)    :22.3      216.5       196.2             126.5                    117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                              ..        12.0         ..               24.7                     25.4
URlBAN                             ..        97.C         ..              56.3                     70.5
RURAL                              ..         3.0         ..               18.3                    12.3
ACCESS To EICRETA DtSPOS
(2 or MOPULATWON)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         ..               U5.1
iBAN                               ..          ..         ..               65.7
RURNL.                             ..          ..         ..               fl.9                       ,
POPULATION PR PiYSICIAN         21800.0    22950.0    11470.0/d          27420.6                  12181.6
POP. PER  URSING PERSON          1420.0/       ..      1450. 07d         3456.2                   2292.0
Pop. PFR HIOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                          1810.0          ..        .0,1            3183.2                   1075.4
URBAN                           170.0/r       ..       170.07T           380.1                    41.$
RURAL                            220.D         ..     3890.077          317.35                   3926.7
ADtISSIONS PER EOSPnTAL RD           ..          ...
Rmn
AVERACE SIZE OF H0Ot511LO
TOTAL                              ..         8.34        ..
URBAN                              ..           I,.
RUUAL                                         9O.
sqpA  No. or POYNS,300
TOXL                               ..          ...
URAN                               ..          ...
RURBL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OP DWLLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RUS                                                          , 



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 20 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE IA
GAMBZA. THE            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SEET
GAMBIA. THE                         REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) I
HOST                     (MOST RECECr ESYDIATE) /b
19601b     1970-b  ENT l          ArRCA LOW INCOHE           MIDDLE INCOHE
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   12.0       2A.n        4R.0              63.9                     97.2
HALE                   17.0        34.0       62.0               73.6                    103 1
FrEALE                  8.0       15.0        33.0               51.6                     88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   3.0        8.0        13.0              12.5                     17.2
tlALE                   4.0        12.0       38.0               16.7                     23.5
FEMALE                  2.0        4.0         8.0                8.1                     14.2
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)          1.4        3.6         3.3               7.3                       3.2
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                          31.0        27.0        24.0              46.4                     42.9
SECONDARY                         19.0       20.0        16.0              25.1                     23.7                               a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)             6.0/a        *-        20.1              36.5                     37.1
0RRWlut Ion
PASSENMER CARSITHOUSAND POP         2.4         6.4          ..               3.3                     18.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/SHOUSAND POP        6.1       111.1       110.0              *5.3                     97.8
TV RECErVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..         ..          ..               2.2                     18.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            4.6          ..          ..               4.7                     18.Z
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCECAPITA        ..         ..          ..               1.0                      0.6
LABOR PORCER
TOrTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         169.0      219.0       277.0
FE.MALE (PERCENT)                46.8        46.2        44.1              34.5                     36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            85.0        82.0        79.0              76.9                     56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                7.0         8.0         9.0               9.8                     17.5
PARTICIPArION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             51.7       48.7        4586              *0.9                     37.0
MALE                             56.2        53.5        50.6              53.0                     47.1
FEHALE                           47.4        44.2        40.9              Z8.9                     27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           0.9         1.0         1.0               1.2                      1.3
INCUS DISTRIDTIX
PERCENr OF PRIVATE INCCOE
RECEIVED ST
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHDL0S             ..
HIGHEST 202 OF ROUSERUDDS           ..
LOWEST ZCZ OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 4020O HODISEHOLDS            ..
POERITf TARCT OUPS
ESTIMATED ABSoLUTE POVERTY INCOE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URSmAN                              ..         ..          ..             165.9                    534.2
RUR6L                              ..          ..        95.0/c            S7.4                    255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POV_ERT INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..       185.0/c           100.8                    491.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        9o.o7             64.6                    188.1
ESTtIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTr INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..              39.5
RURAL                              ..          ..       40.0/c             69.0                       ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICARLE
N O T E S
/a The group averages for each indicator *re populatlorueighted aritluetic eansa   Coverme of countria- am-oa the
indicator. depenads on availability of data ad 1 not unifor-
lb Unlear otherwdse noted. 'Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for -Mest RPecnt Eatt_te" betwen 1979 and 1981.
le  1977; Id 1978; le 1962: If 1976 /R 1973.
Pay 1983



BEST Copy AvAIuIej                                                                                        21 -
srrron  r tNAtiL lShltdtlOt                                                  Page   3   of   5   pages
racpctshla scc.eco  t tic lath ci scacotitac  dotlaiitcc  ccI` touccapta  ud by dLItlarat otetstac Ic naloltlsdl.   t  aaac  caebaa   attI
dcortaIe  udi. a.~ t  thucttado f IctoictreLod. dciahtot.. la.  anals. ccJ!i Et"tat'Ina  .aacac aelrtR.
Vb r.f.raccn tracw a,. t) tbs anM acoatty irq At the sohjct Msatly ad (1) c vs-troami cp Pilh aosachtblaifr e.asie  s,ae.s Iliac ito "Ol'tr ctoap or tic
sahict nanett (acpts"f tar      . 95db  lc all  11cPar.rA'  tA.p 'Ant 191diia lcaa lent.         -1t. c  Htddln Sad" I. oh.-. h.-anl .1*lOa    - ocein-clo
a1l.ittlac).  a.. lb. r-ia-s cra%p data tic acetateo arc iciIcLail  c.t1btd artIbalRIMA c      NCca  ot k cab Iclcal ft an  eltoos .'y W..c ma 1-t..ly at' lbs eatet   tooA
iran ha. data tat lbs lodloata. stawtheah so.oraga at testate  ean  cha  dtclra depSl. a lb. avctaltit7 at daNa A5  cm                  nIs,nAilc  aca Ph
catala-1ct IW.tIt'ttolad erage at cc. todictat tesoathr. TIbas      ntg aNt-..cal -c.1 .t to  ratNt  ia vale af an. ladttoto  at a I Ia accc  l   occt.y ccJ
Ste (ihaccas cq.ba.l                                       79~~~~~j~yjyjprifle  - Pcpclotica ~~dinndad 'IF iambi oft praej,Nlr
- Pane annaeras acyrtnat la  at  ad Icl.acot.Clra  libe.                     MAiiaIiTl             .  a    .ad.Ia cahact a. caorlty tIc-J.
*WTh cIS ISISdalc.                                         P.calalcc wr Ne.teag Iwoac -IpatatleAoldd by accr at ,taailet"A
S -rtontmal-tticats   Ai Lasttawnrcl am. cc   tacpataell at picacacti                         smca   eal Prtact  acra-, aaalatat aIc,Pratt oa  MAsco   W"e
ccrp.-atttat,  arosc at kI,tiso lance- ct W It. tctl1no lice,                      ,noc   allec
19111 ad Ice dat..                                                                     Paalaprbpttld-lni  ns.aa  aa     aoslactotal,
C%pS    CWS!  i          P pa raPtta actnate At crkoat a-towt prlr-a.                        acanlbl. Ic Powll  ad Float. ancc,c  cad a.t.a6Aalac  bapliat ad
~otlc1ililjida   sacerste  aisc  Ca meld teak Mtica (lIly-l bAPts)g                  rahablltanta Ccc.c.. leapltai la acts: bllcbaita Pos"acecly ctaris
till,  ill0, ad 3191 data,                                                                 by at tact dc. phylate10. ic0tabila.qia psalMacN Pit Porlplt 4-oaNtdl.
rate AMa ccl Icelicici. Raecl ktpltala. heai-nt. nalladIs Ugb asd
star weenoa PieCaPItA - Miaaaa  pparcat tccccc,loeseP at ctrawe                        aS Ia-,  atora npatnat P.osly tatol   by   PItAtolam  bthat My a    Nolat
pccyasal  at a    tlc    tralf.owntaraln-c as bpdrc-, MccLcat                       eatataol, Mcr..            Me.l i.) chnob  lI., ts-SpcnAIlctailcc
aS  t.bnctoo  lAonrtrlC-) Io s"bligee  at aMt nq.ltrateForpnaas -vitlelda A Ilaltad rangc at olect lanlltlna.  pop atetaltal pitplea
1910. 1510. ae  11 dsata                                                                   etba balactnda bPtolcaann.batl.actra
!!;M i=r     VITAL STatoTtes  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ecltcc,lanai .  ratal ."cta. aS astat aci atatltl  . taanr.
Atui           mtcaraada ta Acptt  cr  ainI.dSd acil aids. Ict.1
7.cRtcaMe. itt-Tear titw-sposol - Ac ct nipt It li1e, 19n.AM arE tlt              dse-oiaer W-pta.k5 - lna  nais, *1 cbacna   Pca   tabq
data.                                                                                    lt-JhoMaItiiMiv    byW lb cachet, Pr bi..
Utia  acaara. teIat c  1101  -bIl  c  cba.halalt onettacim
a..  -Mcastll 17c0, ailS, aMe 1391 data. .aSc0   ecbl  eron  a  sal.d     ad o                                                                            Ac nata
P.frniitisstiattea                                                                         - A haabed tcaan  ata  no   attScdai  So r*..t  Mca  qcai.
atM       .WO         Co.co pcp.latlcc pssJactlaeat bad hoc .       3                 ccian  tWior -.  -toi.  a bocrd  at lAder caY or cay -t ha  uLatdods L.
CutiiTib-loo Fica a   ate cc M trait -nudIty  ad t-artly                               tha ba-cbe14 tar alatlattl palpsoc.
tatam     -J.Prjatta  prat   ice aerailn itense. cuerte at 115                        coraaehta  ntac-,r                 tota   11-Le,camd rcrai atera5a clsbt
t-c.a  a__,M  Itta a=vataty at bt,tt tIaccsl  naettlc we                               at paean M  pat rae So P.Iior., aS rc.; actoton laoctttet
taytta Inca lent, Asm toad   1. "tI  "paneay aotabLsiac  at 17.1                       dccl SIMMc. ro.eenltaty.  bat Iaca coalS.  --.-.eona  a-rat.ntco ad
po..".  lea yar-W.r ir. Icortllta  ata  tl  boa rIns  ie-l3                              an-ptcd parta
-acato   dan=r  to tcntUtty catodlas Ia Iocra  Iscal ad lact lact1t                  enoc I. tlaittii  mnaRact ct da.ltlocI - totIal nnbo. ad  arsl. -
PIMMIpestaoe   lack wooatey I. thac oaaMPad eao at Ath"ac tc.(cCAsPttac   d                              'st,ta   ISalttlyh  I      da.qaina M.  p.rtmacts
fatclc   .1 crnalty asI tantity trade. Ir Prcj.ctlc  proMsca.PAI Ictal,  Mt,oad  -toa doatlIca  mrltsy
aititt eit adleto - Is A ctctteaty  Wpagttica the  . toM anwac
I.e. the bItch tat. ha aqoal Ia tiA death roa, ad cIa Alb apte                       CAtISS
a    -M`a - e.c    maa,ThiN  *aicc caty atte  r.ntsILy  -tae
d-hc.1 Asrtheo ealasacac  Icatow at Ctf scan rpradW.a tuato.,dalf                         Itraaloal.  al.Pr..."at
papals tt  at1. -  cotiasnad -A the Ilia or t1oe pauiette  eltrantc-pttery cohec-stI Aclataitaca  catcll, Intanac alilidrao  Nod G-t
Ltatc  Ft tha payelactw  1c tie yaa. 200. cad tha rats of doallc   fp car  hot Adjatd tci difiarao  Inotha  i potanry cictai-Sa  at
-tatlity tat. cc repteraca.  teedPP.                                                     -osaam   sin Wch  l-oorclPSciatIca    I sr ttt cyaeo10pral
tUar  AcfAtAcAt cacaitlain rtcneW - lie yet Sea clatloacty,                                ccoiPsoa pptia at bias or 1sbca the  I cttIa  ceal aft.
MCpAtal   otat .111 be tena.Oacatala     ac    csaE Loct  -tpanad a Cht.  toci
-ll-ctpapaLtIla Pat cqtlat  u.ti-aie  (IS0 bolatl ot                      pratdes coocta. eAcatolacaM. at-s.,htm Irac   a tantoo   let
iotiriid:Iota  lil. Ad kat data.                                                    paptin --cIIt anf I -  Il Yct  atae-crapMc                  - etn  arc
Ice as ha. crtralnrai lt   - Cearod sa.bat. cr srtaltcrc  Icci      oat relt -ocn       --iadnnl.ll  -tftl
pascintcoMe InerC. (racd  -11    Otat(-t   e1   ciisa.I-tnc Foftara- toal *                                       Acstr kt ant . oter    an.U atda  et. .,lfdaaaa
pcpetliscllieS,t.(e  ad  -o.  -i-    ftbrw ill  ata           l'cdlaanor old --WprInt?, adTcruay-tm                                      icaaLtdt
rnca nopultin  to N )-O  1100-10. cmi tile-cl.                                           n ooapactn  lard
loatentoo draetlIatatst - crba-  Maowet ercoh ratacr ciS.                                Molt Iltl-,a totsi.sttalt  - lortea. cdc1ta labIa ta Cad  P5 -t1tn  a.
ppIctIc  lotli-la  ie-ic, AsP W9-at,                                                   A pataclsc  an blat Mali ppI.t-a le ad  ) faCt. ad a.-I.
cro. liK=  M.c  P.,r Mh    d  -  aclInn blaghe p.r thacaocd .t o4d-
W-a pcpc1tsata; tiRg tl, m       lC  data.                                           CUlFrlS
(te4s bathS letslr  bni- A,l--kA-Maca ictha par thecacd at aId-yeas                      Pasasaco  Cer (par th-ses  .a-"atat-  aa r sara nsopetic  catra
pcAtICttols tilS, tile, ccili  data.                                                     ::et. ealla  tsa  Ilca sota  P.-c.a -aslada    ,nalc,  arat  Ad
C-y   ft-lscdtooa Nate - *nctac coahai at dwackicl a         Mile ac   a                   all llatr ocint I...
bai dail7i.il -tt . pra  tt a    aeatcepicac  age-cmttc                                kadla ERto-...a " tot Ihenoc casj.Itito) - cLIt lwpa  al feoleatr .te.
Ecttltlty ttac  Mostty tl.-YAMt asaoga  Asill a lSIeA, 1i7n, ad                          bt-dI-ota Co iccare  Pabil  Mcr thooaad at  ipa.tMAti    antlad" -
list.                                                                                   tatacood tolAra ta tao.rtos .5d ta yaara alt. oeateIttae  at radIo
tal   lcia-creaa          . Mcc1nj C      Mdchtccc  - Meet c.m.ha   tnnacac  ccc Ic artsn1 daWc.4ta t ..r tac   oata cay cat 1w raycrabta Mte                      l
flq'Am.                                                                               st esceact  Ina  t.accai na -alci) - TV rccair  rat b-oadnsLt
anaoncktdhcttc aab itcepste  nO. as olb-rnl-ostr  deottac to                          Ic  -trtatla  a4 is atarac.n tetttco, Int.-      TV -i  -a Ic tiMta.
a    ,ll caoladma    IcAm. It-ecrP.                                                  innantCtrtnbc nt   tmnod oclna     thaw lbC                 caac
moo asIa Wrtettnnl                                                             aatralan bad   iota. l t,'cstaa nccor-cs os-dpprtrt.t.ttaad     a. p-1.. ldt
esptctlo  cI alt teed ndlttc. traatic  aciie                 c                    to ha edatl1  it It  ppacra at t-cc    r tat iea  A eah.
toed and to a ca-tro. pt1onhest. Vn-Odicco        -  Pctressere cas  aa. (.'A.c   MclMcaac   ar(oc nn?a  - ca.c..                          as lbh  oob.ba c
data,                                                    tarn twa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  
ts cpia   d L-oflP toteb        1 (rec st a! t    Codta wowsc    - ccan   (.aR           WTbtI   L, tar its tbo.aca  -. Elsaleal  atI  ptco,irlda  croc
calite.  aS t obag  Is ctoc.  let andl  acndtlda sated  tad, mi.,                        aaalbtcl -t..      it       il   aa
-letwotlt eecl at- atcet stock     nt MdAM)    - 9-ktc  etsaco  at pe napisa                195b ad tilt. data.    1191  t
caMt aoly et-ed nA.so dayes. at       . co l,    tss  ha ditiotteccobo.                Nrcclcdacace (r'c)   o                  Wt!,cas. cc1i1next  C- t-iltlrott re 
1sqotAMMMata       CLMw ibt  FMineattl l atbhaa  b1y. M5MaNStc rotd cfl.e                anitl   at   r t        Lopei  1-as    t, 1. Ad   -".i toke in t ..a 
ocaprttl. i  c   30 ate ch=od       d be atoolsestelr.. tao                             tile,tile.4  aS iiIlw Mct. wt.1 on bea af  110'. pant-.1yetto  rats.
eWe-dcd  at ois tressecs    t of    13 tte1 .  at c soa Pran An sod  flare.              nftolti  cmcc etrain. o  Lb. yapaalta. eo 5 loead Iootaleadr. A
C               IbsiAt   World led    danvey  95141.3 iSlD ad I IS dat.                                 sacl .4--faci    nt.r -M lav. aM papoftatta    F en  Ibra ci an   cotIno
Frtati eol cat :Z ice e               Yct Ja   - P-   hat oo-aPIy at, ras                    tac     abel ct.w.                l. sdt1
dat-a.ss..    l            0Wo      t   .-m     n..             h                    10163   Ptit1tcllTtn=eI'.M-ftvolo  rw
..tteeod AP I-I fame,    b ta  Mrda  to  gross  pof  IA;ms tat -t   icnaplso,rpaotted   se-ahec     parstcf, Portcat Vt pc I, ciswomtct- cc   rna oA
1%acfn  at dart14  d tea Itta63 sabloc  isO, 179 ades   liltM dot..                      maoaabatd...d                                                     -
Cthitc;d in  tilt- ad tict    PAt.                                                        alald  a troorel  snth  acadarlaosatoc
baher en      d-l..(ac .   sethe. adtRotueta ineacc1 INcIc  hacas                         tetM
scar aply (trlada  rald arista  rate a  erase   baa            lr tcate iAcir otlcterrlonte   Il nttne)-araaEns 
intlaAd  asec   cta   r    rtca   eces.eatg.cdartttlo   lel   aaotcl   eec"thIrd tnt coP--, 1.-I..00c                                                      d
boat.  s tan  cane tas   orl  ao      a  01   hsl   ecei atss-ttel tonal -my da pag  patttc(ae  ads  neat) toe L-- 'aiMe
ecker a tin .ketd d ctb- boI torIpad c1 dlarcpttiet pant Lf fcdb
chtdayto ted t-hl     c lb  rtya Cha  caP~Se.    .          PAm.d-                               "1       -ry             ~            WI        WP,-I
kE.ot tener_1.a  Mcaa Wreosant  ".i -aaletIc)   hae         -ec. ad-r-lfes   r h   Pt.MM     -                                            A  .tP   -c        -
loca 0- aSe atZ    =44io c     a` cobac. te Isctal d ru hi. ontc-cet   doMsnf, ik    ons    11.   ....Aos
resi A IMA as  airoe wofohnttdAsIss ecpatlc pc "PnltAc. dstees o dpett                  W =       q-  b,.:                                                   MA
Cy bISethe aticats addaccca. eti a tao. tace... C                                               Iocet cc MelalItPh.tblal
h.baa  M santo aissob.caoc Atby- o.ta-ho  A cy0Ct. at thaeats Me t ofccsMayspca  Paette   enrao
ptrc. AMYci ftalce tb.sFlalyoccce -tra1d1.



BEST CPY AVAILBLF
-22-
AM     
P.85 4 or Sy -eit
oNOfc rXVICA!0S
Gc SS Ak==rAL PE t N 198S/E2 It                                                        PM E o coC (             t   u
mg Ki.h/li - 19S9/80 (Ir/.)    W-1e81   1gBI12
cSP at fa*e:t Price                      22.2        100.0                                  02              -4.9       10.9
Gmsa Doneaic 30ava1 as                   61.T         Z7.6                                 27.9             -27.3     -t.8
Cross :saiaal Saving                     1T.0          7.6
Current Account Balance                   .7          2D.0
xports of Cood. PS                       61.7        Z2.6                                  1T.8            .40.7        19.6
:Portn of Goods. En_ -116.2                          52.t                                  6.7             -9.6      -21.0
eaZ-U?. U302a PO3CE UJD P-ODUC;iTT IN 196018
Yalue Added                labor Form 2                 V.A. Per VbOrU
Ag-rieaure              51.6      27.4               218.8    79.0                  235.6    36.7
iustry                  26.6      14.1               24.9      9.0                1.068&3   157.1
service                110.2      58.5               33.2    Mz.O                 3.319Z      M
Totalf/Avrage       1983      100.0               277.0   100.0                  679.8   100.0
cmrmar- cC32 PAV
D-_SI, xLa.            Pect of OW
I got1          198/8       178,79  S0
C=rret Recedte,                88.3              18.0             20.A
Current EzdIturw             -113.5              23.1            19.7
Current S:plus                -5.3                5.1              O.T
Capital Expenditure           -71.2              14.5            12.6
Overall Bal                    96.5               3.0             1.9
.ternsl Assistance (net)   8.9                  18.1             10.9
bEE!. CE9I sd P8n   3
1979180         815?          _/_
Tzti-ii    DsLaas outstdng gu-Pertod
lous_ amd 1u1s- Nay                      74.1             87.0          98.8
Cla4i  on Publie Sector                  846             104.5         130.0
Claim on Private Sector                  91.6            104.1         106.9
(Perentages or Indez Ehbers)
vouy azi Qul Nome
as % of (DP                             183             20.8          20.1
Ceneral Price Index (1976M  - 100)       124.5           137.0         148.1
Annual Perenta  Chanest Q r
Central Price Index                       5.0             10.0           8.1
Claim on Public Sector                   61.8             23.5          24Z.
CI&4  on Privato Sector                  25.5             13.6           2.7
Note: All coersiden to dollas In thi tale a*, at the averag wecag rate prevaling durin the period cowe.
,Pscal year endin  Jue 30.
*21 Labor force ln 19W.



B cPY AVILABLE                                       -  -
us  .4.&
IE _   2.S      ffS           tFt                     _
3     ~~~~~6.9                         ..s           -                                              5
z.=    C.. i1 e
c_ t)         -     2r )-O-  
-        I-               4.'__  59
21  _  =              _  zf _    _       -21.
Le -WM-X 0 ~~~~* 
_.pIt e    ,,,
* a g.1.0.
-                                                                      - IS'uS"              *W



-24 -    BEST COPY AVAILABLE
AkNEX    II
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAIBIA*
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)
Amount (less cancellations) 1/
Credit                                                              (US: million)
Number     Year    Borrower             Purpose                  IDA     Undisbursed
Four credits fully disbursed.                                   13.88
792-FN     1978  Republic of      Education Project              5.50       0.02
The Gambia
314-GM     1978  Republic of    Rural and Urban
The Gambia      Enterprises Project            3.00       0.38
397-GM     1979  Republic of      Highway
The Gambia      Naintenance Project            5.00        1.95
1187-GM    1981  Republic of      Energy Project                 1.50 2/   0.82 3/
The Gambia
1266-GM    1982  Republic of      Second Banjul Port
The Gambia      Project                        6.50 2/    3.93 3/
Total                         35.38       7.10
of which has
been repaid                  0.17
Total now held by IDA I/      35.21
Total undisbursed                         7.10
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ US$ equivalent computed at the rate of approval date.
3/ Undisbursed balance computed at the September 30, 1983, rate of 1.05684.
go IFC Projects in The Gambia.
* The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMEffT AND DBVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 17 months
(b) Agencies that prepared the project:  The Ministry of Economic
Planning and Industrial Development, the Ministry for Local
Government and Lands, and the Social Security and Housing Finance
Corporation.
(c) Date of the first presentation to the BAnk: September 1981.
Date of the first Bank mission
to consider the Project: September 1981.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:  February 14, 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:  December 1983.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1984.
Section II - Special IDA Actions - None.
Section III - Special Conditions
By Government
(a) Studies on land pricing, interest rates, housing subsidies, and
municipal administration and finance would be undertaken by
respective agencies (Schedule 3 of draft DCA, Section 2.02 of PA and
para. 35);
(b) Interest rates for housing would be adjusted periodically in line
with inflation (Section 4.05 of draft DCA and para. 35);
Cc) Remaining Project Coordinating Unit Staff to be appointed (Section
6.01 of draft DCA, paras. 36 and 51);
(d) Special sub-committee from ICC to be established to monitor training
and technical assistance arrangements (Section 3.01 of draft DCA and
para. 37);
(e) Prior notification to IDA before occurrence of new housing schemes
costing more than D 5 million and before transfer of more than D
500,000 per annum from the Social Security Funds Account (Sections
4.03 and 4.04 respectively of draft PA and para. 38);



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) Prior notification to IDA before making changes in the Director of
Housing for SSHFC (Section 3.04 of draft PA and para. 38);
(g) Property assessments and market fee3 would be adjusted periodically
in line with increased municipal and market expenditures (Section
4.04 of draft DCA and para. 44);
(h) Establishment of a Special Account (ccndition of effectiveness,
Section 6.01 of draft DCA and para. 51);
(i) Execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
Government and the SSHFC (condition of effectiveness, Section 6.01 of
draft DCA and para. 51);
(a) The staff positions of the PCU have been filled by suitably qualified
and experienced persons (conditions of effectiveness, Section 6.01 of
draft DCA and para. 51); and
(k) The detailed engineering for major civil works has been carried out
(condition of effectiveness, Section 6.01 of draft DCA and para. 51).



Doe,      1W                         Rip
14
som_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Nasd.~ 
-w    r           ~~~~~~KILOt:ETRS O  ID    D0    30   O      50J
<          ~~~~MILES O     to         iO      00
_        ,                X
rO Sivu^        JAPHw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- S.1Iy



IBRD 17349
Is.                                       lRmThe n  Im lee- ewd Cr                   N          MAUR I TANIA JLV 1983
Thde Woaw,.s eebs.e.* jf S
n~tes cano s ee o r a  4*              SE NE GAL   V
SW P &*bmg ~We       THE                            MAL
G             G    A    L                                                             9  gyein                 GAMBIA '                       MLI
.ed 1r NW hmx3m Zs , N
Pal of The IIf etm aw 1 RO VW
bite'ato.uFi,., c Co.pwa         GUINEA~ 
W9.p, QI,etG. me  btepswm        SSSAUJ   , -   G U I N E A
,~~~~~~~~~~edsao 0'0 aceRIc of                                             r-
__   \-  <   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \             l                                                        R-o~~~~~~~~~~~~SIERRA p 
N. -                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEONE
.>oe4oE~, lsw,                                                                        Atlontic                              IVORY
u.oe                                                                                            L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBERIA )COAST
(  kod_                                                                                 Oceon
- 
= =- ~~THE  GAMBIA 5v-,\XI2  S-_
tN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                             _- -
~~<<                                                                   \             - w  =r Mm,..
_  Primtryro uds  5poved   l Seed.                                                            J s_ e.                         \
3  J   ____ Tracksu _                                                                                                   Km.h.h/
f5t   - Rivers
t          @   ~~~~Noationol capital                                                                         rine
J e ~~~~Districr headqua rters 
Divisional headquarters                                                                                                         .
-----Divisional boundaries
----Internotioncil boundaries
S        E         N        E    G             A         L
T ~ Fi, qiee|






