Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13734
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1443-GM)
NOVEMBER 28, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aUthorization.



CURRENCY EAUILNIS
Currency Unit = Dalasi (D)
US$1.0(1984) = D 2.50 *
US$1.0(1985) = D 3.89
US$1.0(1986) = D 6.94
US$1.0(1987) = D 7.07
US$1.0(1988) = D 6.70
US$1.0(1989) = D 7.58
US$1.0(1990) = D 7.88
US$1.0(1991) = D 8.80
US$1.0(1992) = D 8.89
*rate used in the SAR
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MIEASURES
1 kilometer (kim) = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2) = 0.39 square miles (mi2)
1 hectare = 2.4 acres
i acre = 0.4 hectares
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCC          -      Banjul City Council
FRG(GTZ)   -        Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Agency for Technical Cooperation)
GBA          -      Greater Banjul Area
GUC          -      Gambia Utilities Corporation
ICC          -      Interagency Coordination Committee
KMC          -      Kanifing Municipal Council
MEPID        -      Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
MDI          -      Management Development Institute
MFT          -      Ministry of Finance and Trade
MLGL         -      Ministry for Local Government and Lands
PCU          -      Project Coordinating Unit
PF           -      Project Preparation Facility
PWD          -      Public Works Department
SSHFC        -      Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation
UMDP         -      Urban Management and Development Project
UNCD         -      United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Off ice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                       Novenber 28, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on the Republic of The Gambia
Urban Management and Development Project (Credit 1443-GM'
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Republic of The Gambia - Urban
Management and Dewelopment Project (Credit 1443-GM) prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The main objectives of the project (involving an IDA credit of US$11.5 million equivalent)
were to strengthen local institutions by improving their management and operational efficiency and
to demonstrate the feasibility of extending basic infrastructure, low-cost serviced land and affordable
shelter to the low-income urban population.
Tlhe main physical objectives of the project were achieved. The project had a tangible impact
on the ground through provision of basic utilities and services, housing and markets facilities. New
institutions at the municipal level were created but new policies concerning housing, decentralization
and local tax reform designed through the project were not implemented. The project failed to foster
cooperation among the many entities involved in project implementation. It experienced delays due
to problems with detailed engineering designs, underestimation of properties under the valuation
exercise, problems with land allocation and slow disbursements for home construction loans.
The project was over-ambitious. It was considered by Government as a first step in managing
urban growth. Yet, it was designed as a stand-alone operation. Major policy dysfunctions in the
urban management system were left to studies to explore, without ensuring that the necessary
mechanisms for reform implementation were in place. Among the main lessons of this operation are:
(i) the need for clear targets "owned" by the borrower, particularly on decentralization and tax reform,
(ii) the importance of strong leadership in the Project Coordinating Unit to promote cooperation
among agencies, (iii) the need to ensure a firm stance during supervision concerning the provision
of technical assistance for project implementation, and (iv) the relevance of having enabling
legislation in place to facilitate project implementation and institution strengthening.
On balance, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its institutional development impact
as modest, and the sustainability of project benefits as uncertain. The quality of the PCR is
satisfactory. The project may be audited in the future.
Attachment 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornianoe of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1443-GM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ............................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................  ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PROJECT
A. Project Identity ..........................  I
B. Project Background ..........................  I
C. Project Objectives and Description ..........................  2
D. Project Design and Organization ..........................  4
E. Project Implementation ..........................  5
F. Project Results ..........................  8
G. Economic Performance ..........................  9
H. Project Sustainability ..........................  9
I. IDA's Performance ..........................   10
J. Borrower's Performance ..........................  11
K. Project Relationship .... ......................   12
L. Consultant and Contractor Services .........   .................  12
M. Project Documentation   .............              .............  12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Lessons Learned ..........................   13
B. Areas for Improvement ..........................  14
C. Bank's Performance ..........................  14
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and Credits ..........................  16
B. Project Timetable ..........................   17
C.  Credit  Data  .......... .......................................          18
D. Project Costs and Financing    .............        .............  21
E. Financing Plan ..........................  22
F. Project Results ..........................  23
G. Use of IDA Resources ..........................  26
H. Compliance with Credit Covenants ............. .............  29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1443-GM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Urban Management and Development Project
for which Credit 1443-GM in the amount of SDR1 1.0 million (US$11.5 million equivalent) was approved
on May 22, 1984. The Credit was closed on February 28, 1993, 14 months behind schedule. The
amount of SDR 193,040.92 was left undisbursed and was canceled on October 14, 1993. The last
disbursement was made on April 27, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Sahelian Department, Africa
Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III); and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, the correspondence files and interviews with IDA staff.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1443-GM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The main objectives of the project were: (a) to strengthen the Ministry for Local Government and
Lands (MLGL), the Banjul City Council (BCC), the Kanifing Municipal Council (KMC) and the Social
Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC), to improve management and operational efficiency;
and (b) to demonstrate the feasibility of extending basic infrastructure, low-cost and affordable serviced
land and shelter to the bulk of the low-income population, and generate foreign savings wherever
possible, through the use of indigenous materials.
Implementation Experience
The project experienced a number of delays over its nine-year implementation period. These
included delays in completing the detailed engineering for the civil works components (eventually
resolved through claims negotiations) resulting in a one-year lag in their start-up. The valuation exercise
took much longer than expected due to the underestimation of the number of properties to be valued
(8,000 at appraisal vs. 25,000 at completion) and to the valuation teams' slow progress. Delays in the
land allocation for the urban development component and in the establishment of a contract savings
scheme by SSHFC led to slow disbursements for home construction loans. These delays caused the
project to take 14 months longer than planned to complete. Variances in scope include the establishment
of a semi-autonomous cleansing service; the financing of a tourism impact study through the Italian Trust
Fund; and the sprn-off of a project, the Albert Reconstruction Project, following a fire which destroyed
Banjul's main market (see full discussion of variances in Section E). Despite these variances, the project
should be considered a success, especially in terms of the accomplishment of the physical objectives of
the project, particularly since this was IDA's first intervention in The Gambia's urban sector, and it
represents The Gambia's first attempt to plan and manage urban growth as part of its overall development
policy. Successful implementation is credited to strong direction within the Project Coordination Unit
and to IDA's persistence in addressing problems.
Results
The project generally met its physical objectives and results are satisfactory. On the ground the
impact is tangible and dramatic. Areas which were inaccessible and lacked basic utilities and services
now have access to all-weather roads, water, electricity and refuse collection. Housing was provided for
about 704 beneficiaries under the housing component, and several markets were provided or
reconstructed. The property valuation exercise provided accurate rolls on which taxes were assessed and
collected. There was no overall project cost overrun (para.28), although there were some major



- iii -
reallocations to accommodate higher expenditures for technical assistance. The implementation of the
project's institutional objectives was far less positive. Although institutions at the municipal level of BCC
and KMC and MLGL and MDI were improved through start-up or reorganization, further institutional
strengthening is needed (see para. 12). Although much effort was spent in the design of new policies
(housing, decentralization and local tax reform), the implementation of these policies has been
disappointing. A large number of Gambian nationals were trained locally and abroad under the project
(see section F for detailed results).
Sustainability
The project cannot be regarded as financially sustainable in view of a number of policy actions
not taken by the Government and by the Councils, particularly KMC. As long as Government does not
recover the imputed or market value of land (serviced and unserviced), it will be unable to provide the
necessary infrastructure networks and urban services. It also lacks control over the allocation of land in
the peripheral areas, thereby jeopardizing the form of future urban growth and putting environmentally
sensitive areas at risk. The fact that KMC has not completed the valuation of all its properties and not
benefitted from its full potential in terms of increased rates revenues means it cannot afford to provide
the urban services it is mandated to provide. Since Government's control of the urban planning process
is ineffective, it is unable to reap any of the benefits which would accrue from a comprehensive planning
and strategy process.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The following lessons may be drawn from the execution of this project:
i.    the Project Launch Workshop, the first one built into the SAR as a funded and integral part of
project design, is credited with substantially advancing project execution. However, the Project
launch and review workshops, though very useful, could have served as forums to explain Bank
procedures better. Instructions on the preparation of withdrawal applications should be included
in any Project launch workshop for future projects in The Gambia (paras 14 and 37);
2.    the impact of the studies carried out under the project could have been greater had there been
covenants to ensure the effective implementation of their recommendations (para 16);
3.    the fact that SSHFC refused to use the TA set aside for it led to implementation delays (paras 17
and 19(e)). In addition, the related covenant of the project Agreement, section 2.02, was not
met. The Bank appears to have been too lenient in accepting SSHFC's reluctance to recruiting
technical assistance;
4.    the importance of strong leadership in the PCU and regular and persistent supervision in solving
problems quickly cannot be overstated.  Flexibility in recognizing and accommodating the
Borrower's needs on the part of IDA was also important (paras 18, 38, 39);
5.     acceptable bidding documents for major contracts should be prepared before effectiveness to
avoid delays in the execution of civil works (para 19 (b) and section K) (This recommendation
has now been obviated by the Bank's insistence that all projects use standard bidding documents);



- iv -
6.    the appointment of trainable local staff before project implementation begins should be a condition
of lending (para 19 (g)); and
7.    while the project had its full support, Government was very slow to take important steps or
decisions to support or facilitate project execution. In any future project in The Gambia, IDA
should consider requiring the following as condition of effectiveness: i) the establishment of a
competent major tender board free from political influences; and ii) the passage of any new laws
or enabling legislation needed to facilitate project execution and the reorganization or
strengthening of key agencies. In the future, IDA should design project covenants in light of
institutional structures systems and procedures. Where also the institutional capacity has been
identified as weak or non-existent, institutional strengthening components should incorporate
specific monitorable actions that would be included as part of the covenants.
From the Borrower's standpoint:
8.    it is important to bond personnel receiving training abroad from the proceeds from the project,
and to adapt training programs to the specific needs of the country (para 19 (c));
9.    long-term technical assistance contracts should be performance-based, and should include a clause
specifying that all technical assistance will be judged on their ability to transfer knowledge to
local counterparts;
10.   the problem of sustaining the improved state of urban infrastructure following the closing of this
project will be partly solved through the execution of the Public Works and Capacity Building
(Cr. 2554-GM) recently approved by IDA (see para. 12); and
11.   no environmental considerations were built into the project design. Little or no attention was
given to environmental preservation and the rehabilitation of ecologically sensitive tourist or
historical areas. This problem is already being remedied by the completion of the Gambia
Environmental Action Plan (GEAP) and the creation of the National Environment Agency (see
para. 12).
Assimilation of these lessons into project design:
12.   It is worth highlighting in this report three current projects (recently approved or under
preparation) which build on this project's accomplishments while attempting to improve and make
sustainable its institutional strengthening objectives:
Public Works and Capacity Building. This project concentrates on rehabilitating roads, markets,
drainage canals using labor-intensive techniques. The works will be tendered through an agency
using simplified procurement procedures contained in its procedures manual. The Gambia's
implementation capacity to carry out the necessary design and engineering studies, execute the
works using the small, private sector construction firms, and supervise these works will be
improved through the execution of this project. This project will also finance a study aimed at
defining improvements to the procurement system in The Gambia.



-v -
-     Capacity Building for Environmental Management TA Project (Cr. 2602-GM, approved on April
12, 1994) focuses on the development and/or strengthening of the institutional infrastructure
required to achieve the policy and program objectives of the GEAP;
-     Proposed Urban Environment Project (FY95) aims: a) to improve urban living conditions of the
Greater Banjul Area through the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure networks, integrating
environmental considerations into urban planning; b) to facilitate the administration of urban
development by strengthening the relevant institutions (MLGL, BCC, and KMC) and mobilizing
the necessary support to the operationalization the necessary enabling legislation and regulating
framework; and c) to preserve environmentally sensitive areas by enhancing the operational and
management efficiency of key regulation institutions.
Overall Project Assessment
The project clearly achieved its physical goals. Although the institutional and financial objectives
were not fully achieved, the project may be considered satisfactory.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1443-GM)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project:     Urban Management and Development Project
Credit No.:   1443-GM
RVP Unit:    Africa Region, Sahelian Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country:     Republic of The Gambia
Sector:      Urban
B. Project Background
1.    When the Project was identified in September 1981, The Gambia had just experienced nationwide
disturbances, one of the alleged reasons being the poor state of urban services and infrastructure. The
Greater Banjul area, comprised of the capital city of Banjul and the Bakau and Serrekunda areas on the
Kombo-St. Mary Peninsula, had witnessed phenomenal growth, much of it due to rural-urban migration
as a result of drought, strife in neighboring countries and plain opportunities for work. The Greater
Banjul Area (GBA) held the largest share of urban growth in the country, accounting for two-thirds of
the total urban population. At the 1982 growth rate of 8% per annum, GBA's share of The Gambia's
urban population was estimated to top 70% towards the mid 1990s.
2.    The physical infrastructure in place in the Greater Banjul area was minimal. Over 70% of its
population lived in deteriorating conditions. While the level and quality of services was generally better
in Banjul proper, sanitation was extremely poor with drainage channels beyond the main streets blocked
with solid waste. In the outlying areas, drainage was virtually non-existent encouraging the spread of
water-borne and associated diseases. Conditions were particularly serious within the market network
which constituted the economic hub of both central Banjul and Kombo-St. Mary. These areas contributed
41 % of the revenues of the Banjul City Council (BCC) and 30% to the Kanifing Urban District Council
(KMC).
3.    In the urban policy realm, land was being given away free, through either official channels (Lands
Department) or through the traditional "alkalo" or village chief who would allocate land in traditional
settlements. The practice of giving away raw land for housing construction before extending basic
services resulted in the land being inadequately served. Provision of infrastructure had not kept pace with
demand and financial constraints led to the deterioration of what little there was in terms of urban
services, utilities and infrastructure. There was no cost recovery or premium charged for servicing land
and no organized way to finance and provide basic urban utilities and infrastructure. Solid waste was
being collected by a private firm, which was providing very poor service to only some areas of Banjul,
at exorbitant fees paid by the Ministry of Health.
4.    The private sector had been a prime factor in housing construction. However, insufficient
financing, a shortage of building materials and the inadequate supply of serviced land had slowed the



private sector response, and overcrowding was becoming more serious. Cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures and a shortage of skilled staff had virtually paralyzed the system.
5.     The institutions involved in the urban sector were local Councils for whom concepts of financial
probity, accountability and financial and physical planning were alien. Also underdeveloped was the
Councils' sense of responsibility in providing services in a sustainable manner to residents, implying
appropriate pricing and cost recovery.  In the case of the KMC, there was an essentially rural
administration suddenly faced with rapidly growing urban problems with neither the financial means nor
the human resources to understand the issues, let alone knowing what to do about them.
6.     Believing that the increasingly fragile urban environment was due to urban institutions in their
infancy, serious shelter problems and uncoordinated development in urban centers, Government
acknowledged the need to plan and manage urban growth as part of an overall development policy.
Government realized it was ill-equipped to tackle the task which required an institutional framework and
able and dedicated staff if the benefits of urban investment programs were to reach their intended
beneficiaries. For this reason, Government sought this project as a first step in the management of urban
growth.
7.     At this time, the Ministry for Economic Planning and Industrial Development (MEPID) was
responsible for ensuring that urban investment and policy were consistent with overall development
objectives. The absence of a comprehensive national urban policy and weak staffing had prevented
MEPID from fulfilling its mandate in the past. The Government had recently introduced a policy through
its Second National Development Plan (1981/82 - 1985/86) which envisioned increased responsibility for
the execution of urban activities to the Ministry of Local Government and Lands (MLGL) via a network
of local authorities. Under the decentralization plan, this function was to be gradually reinstituted in the
local development Councils. The latter, however, lacked the necessary skills and resources.
8.    In 1981, the Government created the Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC)
with financing from Government pension plans. SSHFC was to facilitate access to credit by lower
income groups previously denied adequate financing possibilities, as well as to spur the efficient
development of serviced land. IDA considered the above institutional and policy changes as indicative
of Government's commitment to improving the management and development of urban areas.
9.     The project was IDA's first direct operation in The Gambia's urban sector. However, some of
IDA's earlier projects had been involved indirectly (Part III, Table A). Earlier, a feasibility study
financed by the UNDP had defined a broad urban rehabilitation program. It subsequently attracted an
extraordinary degree of cooperation and coordination amongst a broad spectrum of donors including
Germany (planning), China (construction materials) and Italy (public health). Given the complexity of
the efforts of individual donors, it was decided by all concerned that separate but complementary projects
would be the most appropriate administrative arrangement. IDA's role was to finance a series of
measures to strengthen key institutions and to extend key infrastructures in the urban sector.
C. Project Objectives and Description
10.   Project Objectives. The project had two main objectives:
(a) to strengthen the MLGL, the BCC, the KMC and the SSHFC, and to improve their management
and operational efficiency; and



(b) to demonstrate the feasibility of extending basic infrastructure, low-cost and affordable serviced
land and shelter to the bulk of the low-income population, generating savings wherever possible,
through the use of indigenous materials.
11.   Project Description. To achieve the above objectives, two components were proposed, an
urban/municipal institutional development component and a structure improvements/extensions and land
development component. The urban/municipal institutional development component would:
(a) provide 51 person-years of local and foreign training, 15 person-years of technical assistance, and
essential equipment to upgrade the coordinating and executive functions of five departments in
the MLGL. The departmental strengthening assistance would:
(i)  strengthen registration, management, and mapping operations in the Lands and Surveys
Departments, including a study of land administration, pricing and development
procedures;
(ii)  strengthen the technical capacity of the Physical Planning Department including
complementary support to Germany's master-planning exercise;
(iii)  upgrade the Housing and Building Control Services Department to improve its capacity
to formulate and act on national housing policy, including research into the use of
technology, indigenous building materials and construction technology; and
(iv)   assist the Community Development Department to expand community services and
replicate a successful rural program using local construction materials and developing
construction skills.
(b) carry out a review and upgrade the financial and operational procedures, systems and fiscal base
of BCC and KMC, including a revaluation of about 8,000 properties (resource mobilization), and
provision of equipment, technical assistance and training to improve maintenance and to install
an efficient system of revenue collection and arrears management; and
(c) provide training and technical assistance to strengthen the internal accounting, auditing and legal
capability of the SSHFC. A study to determine and define appropriate financial and operational
policies was to be undertaken, particularly policies related to interest rates, resource mobilization
and housing subsidies in general, and to identify criteria for ensuring continued operational
flexibility within changing economic conditions.
12.   The infrastructure improvements/extensions and land development component was divided into
two sub-components, an infrastructure improvement and extension sub-component and a land development
and housing consolidation sub-component:
(a) the infrastructure improvement sub-component financed:
(i)  the provision of essential infrastructure improvements and extensions to some 440 ha in the
Bakau (40 ha) and Serrekunda (400 ha) areas in Kombo-St. Mary, benefitting 50,000 people
directly and 30,000 indirectly. In both areas, short sections of roads were to be upgraded
by paving or graveling to improve access and permit solid waste collection in hitherto



- 4 -
inaccessible spots. The water supply distribution systems were to be extended and additional
standpipes provided. Low-tension electricity distribution systems, overtaxed and potentially
hazardous, were to be replaced with distribution systems capable of meeting current and
future household demands. Street lighting, along with a street naming system, were also
envisaged. In both cases, the local market was to be rehabilitated to improve sanitation and
drainage. The Serrekunda market was to be extended into an existing parking lot to relieve
congestion;
(ii)  for Greater Banjul, the reconstruction of two boreholes in the Sukuta wellfield and emergency
spare parts to the GUC. These measures were to augment the system-wide supply of water
by some 600 million liters per annum and assist GUC in operations and maintenance. Funds
were also provided for the design of water supply and distribution works necessary to meet
Greater Banjul's growing needs; and
(iii)  the upgrading of the Albert Market built in 1856. Rehabilitation works consisted of the
reconstruction of drains, culverts, outfalls, footpaths and existing toilet blocks within the
market area, and the repair and rehabilitation of market sheds, including provision of new
concrete floors, vending slabs, gutters, downpipes, roofing, roof vents, translucent sheets and
repainting.
(b) The land development and housing consolidation sub-component, designed to demonstrate cost
recovery principles, financed:
(i)  the development of housing plots, ranging in size from 250m2 to 350m2, primarily from
lower to lower-middle income groups in the Kanifing East area. Plots would be allocated to
beneficiaries by an Allocation Committee in SSHFC using procedures outlined in the SAR
(annex 3-2);
(ii)  the provision of a community center to serve as an adult-literacy and day care center; and
(iii)  seed capital for the SSHFC to assist the start-up of its construction loans operations and
provide access to housing credit to lower income groups ordinarily excluded from
conventional banking channels. The housing credits were to facilitate the construction of
expandable core shelter units with proper sanitary facilities, utilizing local construction
materials wherever possible. A number of typical units was to be built to demonstrate
optimum use of plots and local building materials and to assist in the development of basic
construction skills.
D. Project Design and Organization
13.    The project's conceptual foundation was fairly clear: in order to provide urban services, it is
necessary to have appropriate and relevant revenues; to ensure that these services are maintained, it is
necessary to have stronger institutions. Though these concepts were understood by some, they were
either not understood or not accepted by others in The Gambia, especially during the early years. By
1991, when the notion of a follow-on project was first discussed at the Permanent Secretary and Director
levels, the degree of understanding and acceptance of the fundamental issues was almost universal. It
is impossible to determine the specific causes for this shift in understanding, but probably the project
implementation process was a contributing factor.



14.   The project was not particularly innovative from  IDA's perspective.  It was only slightly
innovative insofar as greater emphasis was placed on training, and the project featured a project launch
workshop and an implementation review. Conceptually, it did not break new ground. From the Gambian
perspective, however, the project did challenge some fundamental procedures and assumptions such as:
(a) the inalienable right of residents to free water (from stand-pipes), free land and urban services
generally; and
(b) the right by Government employees to subsidized housing loans.
15.   The project was conceived as a stand-alone, one-of-a-kind, rather than as a first in a series of
projects. The project was probably over-ambitious in its objectives and too broad in its scope. However,
with The Gambia being such a small country and lending possibilities limited, IDA felt it had only a
single opportunity to take a stab at urban problems and therefore had to try to deal with all the issues at
once.
16.   In retrospect, the project's design could have been tighter. First, major policy aspects of the
dysfunctions in the urban management system (such as land administration), were left to studies to explore
in the hope that Government would implement some of the politically less acceptable recommendations.
Only during the SAL implementation was any linkage made between some land issues and disbursement
of funds. Second, while the project's conceptual foundation (or financial benefits) lay in the indirect
benefits to be derived from increased rates revenues, there was no direct link between the valuation
exercise on the one hand and the revenue efforts of the Councils on the other. In other words, the
councils had no direct responsibility for the valuation exercise and there was little incentive for MLGL
to speed up the process or ensure that it was completed.
17.   The roles and responsibilities of the various institutions and agencies were clearly defined and
understood -- they just were not always accepted by all the players. The SSHFC's management felt that
IDA should not tell them what to do, and was hostile to any suggestion that they should have a corporate
strategy or that they needed technical assistance to help plan and administer 700 mortgages. MLGL felt
it should have been given responsibility for project management and coordination, and resented the fact
that MEPID was given responsibility for the project. It is not surprising that the components involving
SSHFC and MLGL experienced the most troubles and consequent delays.
18.   The fact that coordination and management of the project lay with MEPID  (until its
reorganization) provided the project (which tended to cut across many agencies' and ministries'
responsibilities) with a strong non-partisan home, which was also considered impartial in the
administration of the development funds. Also, the fact that the PCU Director was a Kenyan without
specific Gambian allegiances but experienced in IDA Urban projects, helped immensely. The project was
also strongly supported and closely followed by the then Secretary-General. Success was therefore as
much a question of the right individuals at the right time in the right place as thoughtful project design
or close IDA supervision.
E. Proiect Implementation
19.   First of all it should be noted that the project took off just as the country started to feel the effects
of inappropriate macro-economic policies which IDA and the IMF helped to rectify through a series of
structural adjustment interventions beginning in 1985/86. The devaluation of the Dalasi, restraint on



- 6 -
public sector spending, public sector cut-backs all affected the project which demanded greater
investments (counterpart funds) and hiring of qualified personnel at a time of PIP limits. Often these
policy changes were at odds with the requirements of the project or the urban sector's needs. Also, while
senior policy-makers and decision-makers were grappling with macro-economic issues, it was difficult
for them to focus on the nitty-gritty of how to make things work or work better in the urban sector.
20.   Project implementation started in the second quarter of FY85, three months behind schedule.
Variances between planned and actual project implementation concern variances in both timing and scope.
In terms of timing, the following are considered critical variances which affected the outcome of the
project:
(a) Delays by GUC in the use of PPF funds for what were considered emergency works (boreholes
and transmission mains) and materials/spares in 1983, but that were not fully utilized until
1987/88.
(b) Delays in completion of the detailed engineering design of the civil works components (the
technical committee set up to review consultant proposals were probably swayed more by the
financial proposal of the consulting engineers than by their technical competence and key
personnel's experience in similar projects (this proved counterproductive for variances greatly
increased consultant fees). This resulted in a one-year delay in the start-up of civil works.
(c) Delays in the completion of the valuation exercise were in part due to an underestimation of the
number of properties to be valued in (8,000 instead of 25,000) and to the slow progress of the
valuation teams. This problem, which resulted in the extension of the Valuation consultant
contract by two years (a variance in scope), was further aggravated by the fact that a Gambian
national sent on overseas training to qualify for the position of Chief Valuer, failed to return to
The Gambia upon completion of his studies. This single problem had a significant impact on
KMC's inability to derive the full potential financial benefits (through increased rate revenues)
from the completion of its valuation exercise. In contrast, another Gambian sent to study
overseas under the training program, was subsequently qualified in Geographic Information
Systems, but had no unit to manage.
(d) Delays in the establishment of a contract savings scheme by SSHFC, in the allocation of plots
and in the construction of core housing at Kanifing East Plot Land Development Scheme delayed
disbursements for home construction loans. In fact, although the data regarding this component
were incomplete and hard to reconcile, the following is clear: a) SSHFC took five years to
release applications, analyze them and interview the prospective beneficiaries; b) eventually, 704
beneficiaries were chosen from over 3000 applicants; and c) although 68% of the beneficiaries
had not reached the appropriate stage of plot execution to warrant total disbursement, most of the
disbursements had been authorized by SSHFC by December 31, 1992 in order to comply with
the closing date of the loan. Needless to say, this delay and apparent disorder in the management
of this component did not allow the development of the disbursement profile or the plan for
repayment by the beneficiaries envisioned at the inception of the project.
(e) The non-use of technical assistance funds by SSHFC was detrimental to its administration of the
Kanifing East Pilot Land Development Scheme and to ensuring that beneficiaries built expandable
and upgradeable core housing units within their means.



(f) The above delays indirectly contributed also to contract extensions for the PCU Director.
(g) The non-availability of qualified and trainable senior staff in the two Councils (BCC and KMC)
reduced the long-term impact of the expatriate municipal financial management consultants in the
municipal finance departments (these were required to be in position within three months of
effectiveness). To a certain extent, this was the problem also with the Valuation Unit.
21.   In terms of project scope, the following variances can be seen:
(a) An expatriate municipal maintenance engineer happened to be in the country when the
Government (under pressure from IDA in conjunction with the preparation of a health project)
decided not to renew a solid waste management contract (which was using up more than 30% of
the health budget) with a private firm. A semi-autonomous Cleansing Service was established,
headed by this municipal engineer, and the project provided financing for a solid waste
management study as well as some equipment.
(b) The scope of technical assistance funds eventually spent greatly exceeded the planned amounts,
for the many reasons mentioned earlier. Fortunately, the overall scope of the project, in terms
of physical works, was accomplished, thanks to civil works contracts which were completed
within budget, albeit later than planned. The project funds were reallocated to accommodate
necessary changes.
(c) A Tourism Impact Study was also undertaken in 1986, financed from the Italian Consultant Trust
Funds managed by IDA, which led to some changes in the tourism industry and an action plan
for its future development.
(d) IDA was also involved in spinning off a new project, the Albert Market Reconstruction Project,
following a fire which destroyed Banjul's main market--for which project funds were to have
provided improved sanitation facilities and basic infrastructure.
22.   Project risks identified during appraisal included coordination and implementation arrangements.
While these proved satisfactory, perhaps more could have been done to develop a cooperative spirit in
the implementation of some project components by fostering more collaboration among the numerous
entities involved in project implementation. As previously mentioned, the lack of technical assistance
proved detrimental to the institutional strengthening of SSHFC. Institutional weaknesses were correctly
identified as being major risks.
23.   The major factors which affected implementation which were not foreseen during preparation
included:
(a) the delay in the preparation of engineering design and contract documents, the weakness of the
main civil works contractor (including their poor quality of supervision);
(b) the emerging macro-economic debate and subsequent reforms, which while necessary, were
disruptive and could not have been foreseen;



- 8 -
(c) the complexity and slow pace at which even minor procedural changes and approvals were
obtained (e.g., for rates changes, municipal fees approvals by MLGL, replacement of BCC
Treasurer, etc.); and
(d) the non-availability of suitable or trainable staff within existing institutions.
24.    Actions taken which most affected project implementation include those concerning the Cleansing
Services and the selection of the consulting engineers and major civil works contractor (by the Gambian
Government Technical Committee reporting to the Tender Board).
F. Project Results
25.    The project, despite certain shortcomings, should be considered a success. On the ground the
impact is tangible and dramatic. Areas which were inaccessible and lacked basic utilities and services
now have access to all-weather roads, water, electricity and refuse collection. Economic and commercial
activities have mushroomed as a result and land has seen an intensification and change of use. There is
a much greater awareness, among the public and even the weaker institutions involved in the urban
sector, of the problems, issues and actions needed to resolve them. There is also greater political resolve.
26.    The physical works were completed, although with some delays. Utility services were greatly
improved and extended in the area, community services were expanded and several markets were
provided or reconstructed. The project provided the basis for the proposed urban environment project
which would address the broad issues of physical and financing needs in the housing sector, and
continued strengthening of urban development institutions. In terms of housing, 704 plots were allocated,
but only 30% of these plots were physically completed by the project's closing date (refer to para. 20(d)).
27.   Institutions which were virtually non-existent when the project started, particularly at the
municipal level at BCC and KMC, have been improved. The property valuation work provided accurate
rolls on which taxes were assessed and collected, and the two major municipal councils were placed on
a sound footing. The MLGL was reorganized, an existing office building was renovated, and an Annex
was built to accommodate the Valuation Unit. The MDI was assisted in starting up its operations.
However, further strengthening, both at municipal and central government levels, is required to achieve
the project's original objectives. A large number of Gambian nationals were trained locally and abroad
thus providing the staff and managers essential to the operation of urban services. In other areas, where
much effort was spent in the design of new policies (housing, decentralization and local tax reform), their
implementation has been disappointing. For example, legislation such as the General Rating Act was
passed in July 1992, even though the municipalities rely heavily on property based taxes but never
implemented.
28.    Financial Performance. There was no overall project cost overrun (in SDR) because the project
was fully implemented within the limits of the Credit amount (SDR 11.0 million), which financed 93
percent of the total project cost. On the other side, the project cost in dalasi jumped from the appraisal
estimate of 30.0 million to 87.5 million, because of the depreciation of the dalasi against the SDR: the
exchange rate went from D 2.50 to SDR 1, in 1984, and to D 8.89 to SDR 1 in 1992. It is important
to note that category 3 for training, technical assistance and consultants services, jumped from SDR 2.05
million to SDR 3.83 million, mainly because of the delays in implementation; this was within the limits
of the unallocated funds.



- 9 -
29.    The property valuation exercise provided accurate rolls, on which taxes were assessed and
collected. Consequently, the financial situation of the urban institutions involved has been greatly
improved. In fact, the financial performance of the councils exceeded expectations, even though it is felt
that, in particular could have achieved higher revenues had they invested more effort into completing the
valuation of properties and improving collection rates of all fees, especially those from markets and
taxi/bus parks. A comparison between projected expenditures and revenues for the two Councils at time
of appraisal against actual performance for the year 1992/93 reveals a better-than-anticipated performance
for both councils. At the time of appraisal, recurrent financial shortfalls were projected for both Councils
and the project was deemed to help mitigate the deficits, despite projected increases in revenues from
property rates. Deficits of D45,000 and D734,000 for Banjul and Kanifing Councils respectively were
projected at that time for 1991/92. Incremental property rate revenues were very conservatively projected
to reach DI,137,000 in Banjul and D186,000 in Kanifing in the low-case scenario. Actual rate revenues
in each of the two councils were in excess of D2.2 million in 1992/93, considerably higher than
expectations, even after allowing for inflation or devaluation.
30.    Nonetheless, it is important to point out that although the Councils performed better than appraisal
estimates, they could have done better on the revenue side, particularly in terms of collection
performance. On the expenditure side, more could have been spent on urban infrastructure services and
maintenance and less on administration and overheads. KMC had by far the greatest potential for
increasing revenues due to its much larger population (230,000 vs. 50,000) and potential property tax
base. The financial performance of the Councils is a good start to be consolidated and strengthened in
the follow-up urban project.
G. Economic Performance
31.    The economic performance of the project was difficult to assess due to the poor quality and
reliability of data, both at the time of appraisal and at the time of project completion. Reliance on a
single indicator, incremental rental value, as a proxy for all economic benefits may be conceptually sound
but difficult to ascertain in cases of poor initial and final rental surveys.
32.    Nonetheless, the overall economic rate of return (IRR) for the project is 47% vs. the estimated
IRR at appraisal of 31 %. The economic rate of return (IRR) for the infrastructure improvement
component was estimated at 54%, higher then the estimated base case scenario of 39%. Benefits were
higher than anticipated, particularly due to the higher incremental rental values (based on current market
value) and changes in the use of land. This is a conservative estimate since the benefits from rental
increases are assumed to affect only 50% of the properties. This IRR underscores the increase in
economic and commercial activities, which have grown exponentially within the project area.
33.    The economic rate of return (IRR) for the land development component was estimated at 20%
compared to a base case scenario of 14% at appraisal. This estimate includes benefits from utility
network improvements, since the plots are fully serviced. If the incremental value of land is taken into
account, the IRR for this component increases to 48%. This sensitivity in the IRR further strengthens
the rationale for Government to adopt a market-oriented land policy and a policy to capture of the
incremental value to cover municipal development costs.



- 10-
H. Project Sustainability
34.    The project cannot be regarded as financially sustainable in view of a number of policy actions
not taken by the Government and by the Councils, particularly KMC. As long as Government does not
recover the imputed or market value of land (serviced and unserviced), it will be unable to provide the
necessary infrastructure networks and urban services. It also lacks control over the allocation of land in
the peripheral areas, thereby jeopardizing the form of future urban growth and putting environmentally
sensitive areas at risk. Since Government's control of urban planning process is ineffective, it is unable
to reap any of the benefits from a comprehensive planning and strategy process. The fact that KMC has
not completed the valuation of all its properties and not benefitted from its full potential in terms of
increased rates revenues means it cannot afford to provide the urban services it is mandated to provide.
35.   In short, while the project made a substantial and tangible contribution in terms of physical and
economic achievements and in the increase of access to basic urban services, it contributed less to policy
and institutional capacity building. Judging by the standard that the project set for itself, therefore, the
project may be considered to have failed in an important aspect. Nevertheless, it is possible that the
project's scope and goals were over-ambitious and unrealistic. Rather, the physical and financial
accomplishments as well as the lessons learned regarding the implementation and institutional issues may
be considered a successful outcome. In order to move toward greater institutional capacity building
goals, the Bank and the relevant municipalities ministries need to build upon the project's achievements
and lessons (see para. 12).
I. IDA's Performance
36.    The project was thoroughly prepared by IDA staff and was not changed significantly from the
time it was identified to the time it was approved by the Board. Project preparation was a particularly
onerous task because of the diverse components involved such as water, power, roads, housing, training
of staff and managers for a large number of institutions, and a wide range of technical assistance. The
fact that this complex project was successfully executed is a tribute to the preparatory and supervising
efforts of IDA staff, in addition to the Borrowers' tenacity and the hard work of the PCU.
37.    The problems that did arise during execution were beyond IDA control, and although they
delayed execution, the project objectives were ultimately achieved.  The Urban and Water Supply
Divisions worked closely together and were later merged as a result of the Bank's reorganization in 1987.
As can be seen in Part III, Tables G (i) and (ii), IDA made available substantial staff resources to prepare
and supervise the project. The success of the project is credited in part to the continuity of staff
involvement in the project in its early years. The Education Division also participated in project
supervision and contributed to its success.
38.    Some 250 staff-weeks were spent on this project over the entire project cycle, which is relatively
high, since the average is 200 s/w. The only gap in supervision occurred over a 10 month period
between November 1985 and September 1986, after the problem with the detailed design of the housing
component had come to light, prior to the Bank's 1987 reorganization. Following the reorganization,
a mostly new group of staff assumed responsibility for the project. The high quality and detailed
coverage of supervision reports continued under the new team. It included the participation of one former
staff member as a consultant, ensuring that continuity was maintained. Despite the problems that
developed during the execution of this difficult and complex project, IDA's persistence in seeking



- I1 -
remedial action from Government to resolve these problems is one of the ingredients for its successful
implementation.
39.   IDA staff was too lenient in accepting SSHFC's reluctance in recruiting technical assistance but,
on the other hand, it displayed flexibility during project execution in accommodating the Borrower's
needs that had not been fully recognized or known earlier. Approval was given to GUC to standardize
certain types of equipment, the Solid Waste Management Study was commissioned and acted upon, the
project scope was revised to take into account the reconstruction of the Albert Market, and training
coverage was frequently adjusted to reflect new developments. The re-ending rate was lowered from
7% to 5% to help the SSHFC. Funds from the Credit were used to finance the detailed engineering of
the Water and Electricity Project (Cr. 1724-GM), while funds from that Project were used to help
complete this Project when cost overruns developed. As the two Projects were closely linked from their
inception, this arrangement was appropriate.
J. Borrower's Performance
40.   The project had the full support of the Government including the several ministries and agencies
involved. The establishment of the PCU under the direction of an expatriate African was a wise move.
The PCU's dedicated staff contributed substantially to the success of the project. Decisions, with some
exceptions, were taken promptly, and local officials were kept well informed through the PCU,
Interagency Coordination Committee and the circulation of minutes and correspondence.
41.   The exceptions referred to above involved the Major Tender Board, which was outside the control
of the PCU. The Board was sometimes slow in giving its approval for contract awards necessitating, on
occasion, the extension of bid validity dates. This problem, however, was endemic to most IDA projects
in The Gambia at the time.
42.   A lesser problem, but one which extended throughout the execution of the PPF and the early
years of Credit, was the frequent failure of the Government to follow IDA withdrawal procedures.
Requests for disbursements were sometimes submitted without any documentation, the withdrawal
category unidentified, or without a copy of the supporting contract which resulted in payment delays to
suppliers of goods and services. It is recommended that for any future project, instruction in the
preparation of withdrawal applications be included as part of the project launch seminar. In May 1987,
a disbursement operations seminar was held for English-speaking countries in West Africa, but this was
rather late for this project.
43.   The most frustrating aspect of project supervision for IDA staff in The Gambia was the securing
of remedial action to correct problems which were holding up project execution. This was particularly
the case when new laws or enabling legislation were needed, or Government agencies needed
reorganization or strengthening. A prime example of this concerned corrections to be made to the
Financial Institutions Act of 1974. The beneficiary savings and loan scheme could not be initiated until
certain provisions covering SSHFC's mandate under the Act were changed to permit it to set up and
operate a contract savings and mortgage loan scheme. Legal changes to the SSHFC's statute were made,
but the required changes in the Act by legislative enactment, requested in 1985, still had not been made
in October 1987. Thus, while the Government supported the project in principle, it was very slow to take
any action which required a change in the status quo. It would seem essential in the case of future
projects in The Gambia, that any such changes which can be anticipated, should be made conditions of



- 12 -
negotiations, board presentation or effectiveness, and/or be incorporated into monitorable actions as part
of project covenants.
K. Project Relationships
44.   Relations between IDA staff and the Borrower's officials and other personnel were always cordial
and open. Relationships between some of the ministries (especially MLGL, SSHFC) and the PCU were
not always so cordial or open.
L. Consultant and Contractor Services
45.   A large number of individual consultants and small firms were used during the preparation and
execution of the project. Their services were generally satisfactory. However, the performance of the
international consulting firm which was entrusted with the design and preparation of contract documents
for the housing scheme was considered unacceptable by IDA. Substantive revisions had to be made to
the contract documents, including the need for additional field survey work to produce a set of documents
that could be used for construction. These revisions and the consequent delays confirmed IDA's
judgment as to the poor quality of the original work.
46.   One source of delay can be attributed to a change which was made in the documents between
those used for bidding and those later revised for construction. This illustrates the danger of calling for
tenders with incomplete documents.
M. Project Documentation
47.   The project documents provided a sound basis for the design and execution of the project. The
aide-memoires left with the Government by the supervision missions and the supervision reports provided
a detailed record of the problems encountered in the execution of the project and a guide to Government
for remedial action needed to improve its performance. The supervision reports would have been
enhanced if they had included cost data including comparison of appraised and actual cost figures
(especially in light of the changes after the devaluation of the dalasi), and tables showing compliance with
credit covenants.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPM1ENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1443-GM)
PART U. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORRUWER'S PER.PECTIVE
A. Lessons Leaned
1.    The project assisted immensely in building the appreciation (among implementing agencies) of
the need for active collaboration at the onset particularly in designing aud impl ion of the project
taking into consideration the needs of the eventual beneficiaries. An important element durin,. and after
the afore-mentioned stages is commuinity participation to ensure 'ownership". Evolving designLs for
layout systems taking into consideration beneficiary affordability levels, optimization of land efficiency
along with improved financial and construction management techniques should be given due consideration
in the sequel to UMDP, including design norms for infrastructure particularly roads.
2.    The project was purely one of urban upgrading in unplanned urban centers experiencing an
uncontrollable sprawl, that is, the Kombo St. Mary Area under Kanifing Municipal Council jurisdiction -
- notably Serrekunda and Bakau (the two towns have grown into a conurbation). A sub-component of
the Infrastructure Improvement/Extension was effectively targeted towards the urban poor. To a limited
extent the establishment of the Housing Finance Department of the Social Security & Housing Finance
Corporation (SSHFC) to implement part D of the project has set the stage for the management of future
housing programs.
3.    Central Government's role as facilitator for providing shelter for the poor is gradually being
understood through implementation of core housing approach and concepts of incremental growth, based
on plot consolidation, rather than full-blown housing schemes built by conventional external contractors
bearing in mind their prohibitive overheads and mobilization costs.
4.    Project unit staff and certain implementing agencies got better exposure to urban development
management issues through the implementation of UMDP in the area of a) project preparation,
procurement, disbursement, etc., b) developing project design culture, c) tendering for physical works
and coordinating the work of the contractor and consultant in the field, d) better appreciation and use of
construction management techniques, e) appreciation for evolving cost effective designs, f) reducing
potential delays in project land acquisition, and g) processing contractor claims using alternative dispute
resolution methods.
5.    However, the traditional project management culture - unconcerned with performance -- approach
could not bring in expected levels of improvement in practicing the new ideas in the area of planning,
design, construction and management approaches effectively. It was also realized that lack of effective
communications between consultants' site staff and contractors team led to inordinate delays. The lack
of comprehensive technical details and comprehensive soil prospecting information, together with delays
in providing information for the contractor, adversely affected the quality of work, its speed as well as
executing design ideas effectively. Frequent changes of personnel on the both the contractor and the
consultant teams affected progress on site. The inability of the resident engineer to make certain critical
technical decisions for corrective action did not augur well for speedy implementation of the physical
works.



- 14 -
6.     To achieve more effective results in the future, the following imat be ensured: a) the resident
engineer and contractor staff on site should have the freedom of decisio-making for corrective action
rather than making frequent referrals to their head offices, b) an effective communication system among
project coordinating unit staff, implementing agencies, site engineers, and the contractor, c) improvements
in tender processing, d) use of modern management tools and equipment, e) continuous monitoring and
evaluation of project implementation by the project coordinating unit without interference from central
government agencies with similar purviews.
7.     The division of the physical work contracts into lots has been found very effective. The only
problem was that the contractor ought to be able to evolve a pragmatic and practical work program rather
than opening up too many sites at the same time and having to leave some of the sites inactive, especially
drains and roads which have caused considerable hardship to the public particularly those in the
immediate project vicinity.
B. Areas for Improvement
8.     Evolving a more expedient beneficiary selection process with the objective of processing leases
and mortgages faster thus speeding up beneficiary occupancy a well as tranche disbursements. The site
should be handed over well ahead of finalizing the list of selected beneficiaries.
9.     To ensure that lease and mortgage processes are automated to facilitate and ease modifications
in the event supplementary loans are made.
10.   To ensure that pertinent project unit staff, particularly nationals are recruited at the early stages
of project design and given clear roles. Again, they should be trained and familiarized with Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures from the onset to minimize rejection of withdrawal applications
at the early stages of the project.
11.    Technical assistance both at the level of the project unit and the implementation agencies should
be on a short term, rather than have resident experts ending up not effecting any skill transfer at the end
of their contracts.
12.    Certain criteria adopted for beneficiaries selection have been difficult to ascertain, particularly
that pertaining to applicant or spouse ownership of land.  Spinsters were usually not given due
consideration like bachelors with families - the gender anomaly should be remedied in the future.
13.    Ensure adequacy of detail at the preliminary design stage to reduce detail design problems.
Accessibility to and affordability of services (water and electricity) should be an important consideration
apart from the development costs.
14.    Land availability at suitable locations is a must, particularly for the LIG, as a consideration for
success in the replication of such land consolidation projects.  Government policies, legislation,
procedures for land acquisition posed problems in terms of timely availability of land.
15.   The municipalities state of preparedness to benefit from the project has been found rather
wanting. A lot of project resources had to be utilized in sanitizing the manpower base of the urban
municipalities to ensure that the efforts at devolving some of central governments functions would yield
positive results.



- 15 -
C. Bank's Performanc_
16.   Bank officials have been visiting regularly throughout the phase of detail project formulation (i.e.
design) and project execution. The frequency, timing and duration of field missions has been found to
be adequate except for the lull during the period in 1987 when the Bank was going through a
reorganization. The mission's aide memoires have been found to be very effective in terms of taking
remedial action during supervision missions and outlining actions to be taken to progress the project.
They served as a useful management tool for PCU, Central Government as well as Bank officials to
achieve project results.
17.   Project Unit officials' interaction with Bank mission teams during implementation period has been
found effective and useful. The Bank's response to the communication by the PCU has been very quick
thus helping in taking faster decisions in various matters, particularly in obtaining no objections from the
Bank. Technical input of Bank recommended experts has been adequate and timely.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1443-GM)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Credit 1443-GM was IDA's first intervention in The Gambia's urban sector. However, IDA was
indirectly involved in the urban sector through the following projects:
Loan/Credit Title                  Purpose             Year of           Status
Approval
1. Credit 187 - GM Port              Rehabilitate the port of     1970       completed
Rehabilitation Project               Banjul
2. Credit 602 - GM Infrastructure and   To improve infra-         1976        completed
Tourism Development Project          structure networks in
higher income
neighborhoods and to
develop a tourist zone
in Greater Banjul
3. Credit 814 - GM Rural and Urban   To assist small-scale        1978        completed
Enterprise Project                   industry
Source: SAR, para. 1.11.



- 17 -
B. Project Timetable
Date Ptanned               Date Revised               Date Actual'
Identification                                                                            9/81
Preparation                     1/82 - 4/82 2                                          10/81-8/82
Pre-appraisal                      7/82 2                                                 7/82
Appraisal Mission                  9/82 2                                                 2/83
Credit Negotiations              8 - 9/83 3                                           12/5 - 8/83
Board Approval                       --                                                 3/06/84
Credit Signature                                                         .              5/11/84
Credit Effectiveness                 --                                                 12/06/84
Credit Closing                   12/31/9 1 4                                            12/31/92
Project Completion               6/30/91 4                  12/31/92 5                  2/28/93
1   Source: correspondence files
2   Source: Identification Mission Report, dated 11/17/81.
3   Source: Issues Paper, dated March 14, 1993.
4   Source: Development Credit Agreement
5   Brief extension granted to enable work on one item to be completed.



- 18 -
C. Credit Data
1.    Credit Disbursements
Disbursements (in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter        Estimated          Actual         Actual % of
Cumulative al    Cumulative b/      Estimated
1985  1                               0.9              0.00               0
2                              1.1              0.05               4
3                              1.3               1.48             114
4                              1.6               1.64             102
1986  1                               1.9              1.79              94
2                              2.3              2.11               92
3                              2.7              2.28               84
4                              3.2              2.63               82
1987  1                               3.8              2.83              74
2                              4.4              3.71               84
3                              5.0              4.16               83
4                              5.6              4.44               79
1988  1                               6.1              4.83              79
2                              6.6              5.49               83
3                              7.1              6.04               85
4                              7.5              6.83               91
1989  1                              7.9               7.26              92
2                              8.3              7.54               91
3                              8.7              7.70              88
4                              9.1              8.53              94
1990  1                              9.5               9.31              98
2                              9.8              9.48              97
3                              10.1             10.19             101
4                              10.4             10.29             99



- 19 -
Disbursements (in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter         Estimated    |      Actual         Actual % of
Cumulative a'     Cumulative b/       Estimated
1991   1                               10.7             10.68              100
2                               11.0              10.68              97
3                               11.3              10.93              97
4                               11.5              10.93              95
1992  1                                 --              11.19               97
2                                                 11.19              97
3                                                 11.44              99
4                                                 12.82              111
1993   1                                                12.82              111
2                                                 13.07              114
3 (end Feb/93)                                    13.52
4
a/ Source: SAR, Annex 6
b/ Statements of Credit
Note: Because the devaluation of the US dollar in relation to the SDR, disbursements in US dollars are
misleading. There was no overall project cost overrun in SDRs (please see para. 28).



- 20 -
2.    Credit Allocations (SDR million Equivalent)
Category                  At Appraisal '             At Completion bl
1. Civil Works                         4.40                      4.15
2. Materials, Vehicles                 0.29                      0.55
3. Training, T.A., Equipment
and Consultant's Services            2.05                     3.83
4. Housing Loans                        1.03                     1.03
5. Operating Expenses                  0.38                      0.25
6. Special Account                     0.24                      0.00
7. Refund of PPF                       0.96                      0.90
8. Unallocated                          1.65                     0.09
TOTAL                               11.00                    10.80
al Source: Schedule 1, Development Credit Agreement
b/ Source: Disbursements



- 21 -
D. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost (in Dalasi '000)
l                                  |~~~abw    Appraisal V                       Actual bl
l| Local | Foreign  T Total      Local    Foreign      Total
A. URBAN/MUNICIPAL
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Strengthening of Ministry for Local   941        1,534      2,475       648       3,517      4,165
Government and Lands (Sundry Dept.)
Municipal Development (Banjul City    777        2,067      2,844       404       7,279      7,683
Council, Kanifing Urban District Council
and Local Government Inspectorate
Division)
203       700         903         51       3,249      3,300
Resource Mobilization (Rating and
Revaluation of Property in Greater
Banjul Area)                            308        516         824         21        455        476
Strengthening of SSHFC                141        613         754         0         935        935
Management Development Institute
(Director and Curriculum Advisor)       2,370      5,430       7,800      1,124     15,435     16,559
SUB-TOTAL
B. INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS/EXTENSIONS
AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
3,470      9,179      12,649      3,840    43,604     47,444
Improvements/Extensions to Essential
Infrastructure Pilot Land Development   1,203      2,261       3,464       0          0          0
scheme
992       2,515       3,507      3,507     8,893      12,400
Housing Credits
5,665     13,955      19,620      7,347    52,497     59,844
SUB-TOTAL
C. PROJECT
MANAGEMENT/COORDINATION                 965        1,644       2,609      1,958     9,098      11,056
AND FUTURE PREPARATION
9,000     21,029      30,029     10,429    77,030      87,459
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
a/  Source: SAR, page 6 - contingencies included in each item.
b/  Source: PCU



- 22 -
E. Financing Plan
(in US$ million)
|   Appraisal !'     Actual b |
IDA                    11.5          11.0
Government             0.9           0.9
TOTAL                  12.4          11.9
Note: Due to the complexity of several donor's efforts in the sector, especially where institutional
development was concerned, Government and cofinanciers decided that separate but complementary
project would be the most appropriate administrative arrangement. d
' Sourc  SAR, page 7
Sourc: PCU
Sourc  SAR, page 4



- 23 -
F. Project Results
1.    Direct Benefits
The SAR did not define a set of key indicators. However the following indicators can be determined
from the SAR and project correspondence.
Indicators                Appraisal Estimate   Completion
Valuation/Revaluation of properties        8000 properties    30,000
Sites and services upgrading, Bakau            40 ha
Sites and services upgrading, Serrekunda      400 ha
Sites and service development, Kanifing East  700 plots      704 plots
Number of plots auctioned publicly                              30
Number of plots allocated by SSHFC           700 plots          704
Number of plots subject to a mortgage loan                      590
Number of plots having received a mortgage                      590
loan                                                            153
Number of plots not having received a loan
Number of plots with 1st tranche               700
disbursement (plot development and house                       590
foundation)
Number of plots with 2nd tranche                                178
disbursement (superstructure)
Number of plots with 3rd tranche                                102
disbursment (roofing)
Number of plots with 4th tranche                                55
disbursement (finishings/fittings)
Number of houses occupied                                       182
Additional Project results not foreseen in the SAR include the establishment of an area-wide garbage
pickup and disposal system resulting in improvements in health and environmental conditions, and IDA's
participation in the reconstruction of the Albert Market after its destruction in the 1986 fire.



- 24 -
2. Studies
Study                  Purpose in SAR                 Status           Impact of Study
Land Administration,      To identify strengths and         Completed in     MLGL was reorganized
Pricing and Development    weaknesses of current practices  1986             to rationalize and
and make recommendations for                      improve the
adequate reforms, especially in                   administration of all land
pricing and development aspects                   related matters and
physical planning and
development control
issues.
Financial and Operational    To define principles and details of    Completed in    The Corporation's
Policy and Procedures of    a suitable statement of operating    1987        mandate became more
SSHFC                     and financial policy for the                       clearly defined,
Corporation, including detailed                   particularly the mission
study of likely impact of interest                of the Housing
rates and housing subsidies on the                Department (HD) and
Corporation and housing in                        the House Finance Fund
general                                           (HFF) vis-a-vis the
Pensions and Provident
Funds which were
hitherto earmarked as the
nucleus of the HFF,
SSHFC experienced an
improvement in the
management of the three
funds. The study also
led to the public
auctioning of 30 plots to
determine the demand
and indicative prices for
serviced plots for
improved accessibility
and replicability of
serviced plots for shelter
development. Not only
did this measure lead to
salvaging the HFF but it
did bring to light the
existence of a market for
serviced plots.



- 25 -
Housing Subsidies in The    To identify, measure and assess  Completed in        Identified subsidies
Gambia                     the impact of housing subsidies in   1987             particularly "disguised"
the public sector and suggested                      housing subsidies in the
reforms for the housing sector                       public sector and
recommended reforms
for eliminating most of
these subsidies which
were duplicated in
certain instances thus
leading to cost reductions
for recurrent public
sector expenditure.
MLGL was also inspired
by this study to
undertake the
formulation of a Housing
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _  _policy.
Tourism Impact Study       Not defined in SAR. The study     CompIeed in         The study led the
was to define a strategy for the  early 1989         Ministry of Information
tourism sub-sector to establish a                    and Tourism to re-orient
framework and goals for its                          its tourism marketing
orderly development.                                 and promotional
campaigns. Despite the
impressive arrival figures
the net earnings (apart
from the negative social
and environmental
effects) were not
commensurate to the
investment and
associated risks made by
government given other
investment possibilities.
Solid Waste Management    Not defined in SAR. The study      Completed in        An interim arrangement
Study                      was to assist in developing a     1987                for solid waste
program for the gradual transfer                     management was set up
of operational and financial                         in 1987 (execution by a
responsibility for refuse collection                 semi-autonomous
and road sweeping to the Urban                       metropolitan [with
Councils.                                            central and municipal
authority participation]
agency through direct
labor). An enabling
legislation and
accompanying
regulations for imposing
user charges were drawn
up to render the service
self-sustaining. A refuse
disposal site next to a
residential neighborhood
in Bakeu was closed.



- 26 -
G. Use of IDA Resources
1.    Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cycle               Planned            Revised             Final
Pre-appraisal                       unavailable                              99.6
Appraisal to Board                  unavailable           --                 22.1
Supervision                            17.0               10.3              113.2
PCR                                     --                7.0                15.3
TOTAL                               17.0              17.3               250.2
Notes:
The SAR originally foresaw 80 staff-weeks for supervision, with 60% of this time required in the first
30 months of implementation due to the novelty of the operation (p. 35).
Original and revised data are available only for 1992 and 1993.
Source: Summary of CAM lending operations



- 27 -
2.      Mission Data
Stage of       Month/Year | Number of | Days in |  Specialization   [ Performance [ Dates of
Project Cycle                 Persons    | Field      Represented '      Rating Status | Reports  |
Identification 1      9/81          2           7            E, FA                         9/25/81
Preparation 1        10/81           1          5             FA                           11/13/81
Preparation 2         1/82           3          8         EA, EC, FA                       3/23/82
Preparation 3         6/82          2           7           AP, FA                         7/07/82
Preparation 4         8/82           1          3              C                           9/08/82
Pre-appraisal         9/82           4          17          3 C, FA                          NA
Appraisal             2/83          6           14        E, 2 FA, LC                     3/14/83t'
Identification        2/83          2           3            E, FA              _         3/23/83 "
Post-appraisal        7/83          3           3           2 FA, L                          NA
Post-appraisal        9/83          2           2            E, FA                          NA N    |
Preparation           2/84           2          3            E, FA                        3/08/84 '
Post-negotiations     2/84          2           4           AP, FA                         3/26/84
Supervision 1         6/84          4           2              _                _          8/17/84
Supervision 2         8/84          2           9          FA, UBS            1,1,1        10/10/84
Supervision 3         9/84          2           3            E, FA              _         10/19/84''
Supervision 4        11/84          2           13          AP, FA            1,1,1        1/03/85
Supervision 5        11/84           3          2          E, EC, FA                       1/11/85
Supervision 6         3/85          4           3        E, EC, FA, TS                     4/12/85
Supervision 7         3/85          2           4           AP, FA                           NA
Supervision 8         7/85           1          6             AP              1,1,1        10/31/85
Supervision 9         9/85           1          3             TS                             NA
Supervision 10       11/85          2           2            E, FA                        12/05/85 Y|
Supervision 11       11/85          2           6            AP, E            1,1,1,1      12/23/85
Supervision 12        9/86           1          8             AP                             NA
Supervision 13       10/86           1          3             FA              1,2,1,2     11/21/86 '
Supervision 14       12/86           1          2             FA              1,2,1,2     12/22/86k'
Supervision 15        2/87           3          8         AP, FA, TS          1,1.1,1      5/29/87
Supervision 16       10/87           3          3          AP, E, EC          1,1,1,1      11/30/87
Supervision 17        3/88           1          1             FA                           4/04/88



- 28 -
Stage of    | Month/Year | Number of  Days in |  Specialization   | Performance | Dates of
Project Cycle                 Persons   [ Field      Represented '      Rating Status    Reports
Supervision 18       4/88           3          12           E, EC            1,1,2,2      7/21/88
Supervision 19       9/88           4          4       AP, E, C, FA, TS      1,1,2,2     11/09/88
Supervision 20       2/89           3           4         AP, E, EC          1,1,2,2      5/08/89
Supervision 21       7/89           1          5             AP            2,2,1,1,1     10/12/89
Supervision 22       11/89          4           5       AP, E, FA, TS       2,2,1,1,1     2/03/90
Supervision 23       6/90           3           7         AP, E, FA         2,2,1,1,1     8/16/90
Supervision 24       2/91           1           6             e             1,1,1,1,1     4/02/91
Supervision 25       7/91           1          10             e             1,1,1,1,1     8/19/91
Supervision26        10/91          1          2             FA             1,1,1,1,1    11/15/91
Supervision 27       5/92           2           1           E, FA           1,1,1,1,1     6/10/92
Supervision 28       10/92          2          3            E, FA          2,2,1,1,1      1/04/93
Supervision 29        1/93          4          3           E, 2 FA         2,2,1,1,1      3/25/93
a/ AP      -   Architect/Planner
C      -   Consultant
E       -   Engineer
EA      -   Engineer Advisor
EC      -   Economist
FA      -   Financial Analyst
L       -   Lawyer
NA     -   Not Available
TS      -   Training Specialist
UBS   -   Urban Management Specialist
_/ Issues Paper
c/ Water supply component of project prepared by the Water Supply Division.



- 29 -
H. Compliance with Credit Covenants
Section              Description of Covenant                 Status
Credit Agreement
3.01 (a)             Due diligence                           met
3.01 (b)             Due diligence                           met, but delayed
3.01 (c)             Staffing of PCU                         met
3.01 (d)             Valuation Units                         met
3.01 (e)             Maintain ICC and its technical sub-     met
committee
3.01 (f              Relending                               met
3.02                 Employ specialists and consultants      met
3.03                 Counterpart Staff                       generally met
3.04                 Operation of MDI                        met
3.05                 Insurance and use of credit proceeds    met
3.06 (a)             Furnish documents                       met
3.06 (b)             Maintain records                        met
3.06 (c)             Publish contract data                   met
3.06 (d)             Prepare PCR                             met
3.07                 Acquire land                            met
3.08 (a)             Valuation Act                           met
3.08 (b)             Timetable for Volunteer                 met
3.09                 Design Standards                        met
4.01 (a)             Maintain separate records and accounts  met
4.01 (b)             Maintain detailed records and SOEs      met
4.01 (c)             Have independent auditors               met
4.02                 Operate community facilities            met
4.03 (a)             Maintain facilities and roads           met
4.03 (b)             Cause BCC and KMC to establish and      met
maintain appropriate budgeting and
accounting procedures                                     l
4.04 (a)             Cause BCC and KMC to collect taxes,     not met
fees, etc.



- 30 -
Section               Description of Covenant                   I Status
4.04 (b)              Adjust above changes at regular intervals    not applicable
4.04 (c)              Recover revenue arrears                     met
4.05                  Cause SSHFC to adjust its interest rates    not applicable
for mortgages                              (There is a
provision to adjust
interest rate in
mortgage
agreement)
Project Agreement                                             _
2.01 (a)              Due diligence                               met
2.01 (b) (i)          Apply beneficiary selection criteria        met
2.01 (b) (ii)         Loans to beneficiaries at interest rate of  met, following
9%                                         revision
2.01 (b) (iii)        Terms of loans to beneficiaries             met
2.01 (b) (iv)         Protect interests of the borrower           met
2.02 (a)              SSHFC to employ financial consultants       met
2.02 (b)              Employ appropriate consultants when         met
2.02 (c)              Consultants to be satisfactory to IDA       met
2.03                  Procurement requirements                    met (except the
case of Albert
Market)
2.04 (a)              Carry insurance                             met
2.04 (b)              Goods and services to be used exclusively    met
for the project
2.05 (a)              Furnish documents, etc.                     met
2.05 (h)              Maintain records                            met
2.05 (c)              Publish contract data                       met
2.05 (d)              Prepare a report of Part D                  met
2.05 (e)              Inspection                                  met
2.06                  Obligation of SSHFC                         met
2.07                  Keep IDA informed                           met
3.01                  Operation of SSHFC                          met
3.02                  Maintenance of plant, etc.                  met
3.03                  Carry insurance                             met



- 31 -
Section            1 Description of Covenant                 Status
3.04                 Consult IDA on qualifications of staff  met
4.01 (a)             Maintain records                        met
4.01 (b)             Retain records                          met
4.02                 SSHFC to have its accounts audited      met
4.03                 IDA to approve SSHFC's financial and    superceded by the
operating procedures                    drawing up of
Performance
Contracts for
private enterprise
including SSHFC
4.03 (b)             Conduct its operations in accordance with    met
its approved procedures
4.03 (c)             SSHFC shall not amend 403(b) above      met
4.04                 SSHFC not to undertake any scheme in    met
excess of D 5.0 m
4.05 (a)             SSHFC should have its operations        met
reviewed by an actuary every 3 years
4.05 (b)             Shall not transfer any sum over D 0.5 m  met
from the Social Security Fund and the
Housing Finances Fund
4.06 (c)             Furnish IDA with report responding to   met
4.05 (a)
Source: Credit and Project Agreements



