Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Y-.
Report No. q
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 7, 1984
Urban Division
Western Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dalasi (D)
US$1.0              D 2.50
D 1.0               US$0.40
D 1.0                Bututs 100
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (Ian)         0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)    0.39 squares miles (mi2)
1 hectare             =  2.4 acres
1 acre                    0.4 hectares
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC          -  Area Council
BCC         -  Banjul City Council
CDD         -  Community Development Department
EEC         -  European Economic Community
FRG (GTZ)   -  Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Agency for Technical Cooperation)
GUC         -  Gambia Utilities Corporation
HBCSD       -  Housing and Building Control Services Department
ICC         -  Interagency Coordination Committee
KSM         -  Kombo-St. Mary
KUDC        -  Kanifing Urban District Council
LGID        -  Local Government Inspectorate Division
MEPID       -  Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
MFT         -  Ministry of Finance and Trade
MLGL        -  Ministry for Local Government and Lands
PCU         -  Project Coordinating Unit
PPD         -  Physical Planning Department
PWD         -  Public Works Department
SSHFC          Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
UNIDO       - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



- i -                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMNT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................... vi-vii
I.    SECTOR BACKGROUND       .............................1............... 
A.  The National Economic Context .................                   1
B.  Urban Infrastructure and Shelter .........................        1
C.  Urban Institutions and Government Policy .............            2
D.  Bank Strategy and Other External Assistance .............     .  3
II. ELEMENTS OF THE PROJECT. . .                                             4
A.  Objectives and Main Project Features        .      .              4
1.  Urban/Municipal Institutional Development.                    5
2. Infrastructure Improvements/Extensions
and Land Development.                                      5
B. Summary Project Costs           ..                                 5
C.  Financing and Funds Flow .... ....                  .     .7
III. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION. . .                                      8
A.  Urban/Municipal Institutional Development .           .           8
1.  Ministry for Local Government and Lands (MLGL).              8
2. Social Security and Housing Finance
Corporation (SSHFC).                                       9
B. Infrastructure ImprDvements/Extensions
and Land Development.                                        10
1.  Infrastructure Improvements and Extensions .10
2.  Land Development and Housing Consolidation .11
IV.   HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT          . . .12
A. Staff Training    ..13
1. Local Training.                                               13
2. Foreign Training .15
B. Technical Assistance           ..                                 15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
The Gambia in February 1983. Mission members consisted of Messrs. Laurence
Clarke (Mission Leader) Ms. Carolyn Tager (WAPUR); Asif Faiz (WAPDR);
David Jones (WUD); Paati Ofosu-Amaah (LEG) and; Benedetto di Zitti (CONS.).
The report was typed by Mrs. Lyssa Piquion (WAPUR). Assistance in the
preparation of statistical annexes was given by Mrs. Anita Artaza (WAPUR).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Table of Conten.ts (Continued)
Page No.
V.     FINANCIAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT, DEVELOPMENT
AND COST RECOVERY                          ..                         18
A.  Strengthening of Shelter Finance Capability..                          18
B.  Strengthening of Municipal Finance Capability   ...                    21
1. Banjul City Council (BCC)    .                 .21
2.  Kanifing Urban District Council (KUDC)   .            .22
C.  Cost Recovery and Beneficiary Affordability    ...                     23
1. Capital Costs                           ..23
2.  Recurrent Costs ......................................  25
VI.   PROJECT COORDINATION AND EXECUTION ....... .       ...................  27
A.  Project Coordinating Unit .           .................................  27
B.  Project Execution             ........................  27
1.  The Ministry for Local Government and Lands (MLGL)  ...  27
2.  The Social Security and Housing Finance
Corporation (SSHFC)               ............  29
C. Implementation Schedule                 . . .29
D. Procurement                    . . .31
E. Disbursement                        ... 33
F. Accounting and External Auditing               . . .33
G. Maintenance and Operations .                  .                         34
H.  Supervision ..............................................  35
I.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting           .     .                 35
VII. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION    .                   .36
A. Justification and Project Benefits .36
B. Economic Evaluation .37
C. Rate of Return Calculations .39
D.  Distribution of Benefits and Poverty Impact .40
E. Project Risks .40
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .41
ANNEXES
2     Detailed. Cost Tables
3-1   Infrastructure Design Standards
3-2   Land Development Sub-Component - Beneficiary Selection Criteria
4-1    Details of Project Training
4-2   Details of' Technical Assistance



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
4-3   Job Descriptions and Terms of References
4-4   Summary Details of Studies to be Undertaken under the Project
5-1   SSHFC - Aspects of Actuarial Assessment of Pension Scheme
5-2   SSHFC - Housing Fund:  Financial Forecasts
5-3   SSHFC - Consolidated Financial Forecasts
5-4   BCC - Forecast Recurrent Finances
5-5   KUDC - Forecast Recurrent Finances
5-6   Impact of Project Reforms on Forecast Recurrent Finances
5-7   Ministry for Local Government and Lands:  Forecast Recurrent Expenditure
6     Disbursements Schedule
7     Analysis of ERR for Infrastructure Improvements/Extensions and Land
Development Sub-Components
PHOTOGRAPHS   Existing conditions in The Gambia.
MAPS           Greater Banjul - Project Sites (IBRD 17155)
Bakau - Infrastructure Upgrading Area (IBRD 17156)
Serrekunda - Infrastructure Upgrading Area (IBRD 17198)
Kanifing East - Pilot Land Development Scheme (IBRD 17199)
Map of The Gambia (IBRD 17349)



- iv -
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. Urban Municipal/Institutional Development
Al.  An Exploratory Survey of the Urban Sector in The Gambia (a working
paper), January 1981 (Urban Sector B/R).
A2.  Report on Municipal Financial Component - J. K. Bahal, March, 1982
(PCF / March 31, 1982).
A3.  Pre-appraisal Report on Financial Management Components (SSHFC and
Municipalities) - J. K. Bahal, November 1982 (PCF, November 30,
1982).
A4.  Land Management and Valuation - S.S. Yayha, September 1982
(PCF, September 1982).
A5.  Study of Housing Finance in The Gambia: Vols. I and II - A. Knight,
December 1979. (125162(B) (Cr. 814)).
A6.  SSHFC - a Report of Project Preparation in The Gambia - A. Knight,
March, 1982 (PCF, March 31, 1982).
A7. A Proposal for an In-Service Training Program for Physical Planning
Assistants in The Gambia - Dr. C. K. Jayarajan, CFTC Advisor (DOC
#129-860).
A8.  A Phased Development Plan for the Renovation, Modernization and
Expansion of the Albert Market in Banjul, The Gambia - Booker T.
Washington Foundation, June 1982 (DOC #129-860).
B. Infrastructure Improvements, Extensions and Land Development
B1.  Urban Management and Development Project - Consultants Report No. 1 -
H.S. Mangat, February 1982 (DOC #129-860).
B2.  Urban Management and Development Project - Consultants Report No. 2 -
H.S. Mangat, February 1983 (DOC #129-860).
B3.  Summary of the Survey of Housing Market Situation and Beneficiary
Practices - Vols. I and II - MLGL, June/July, 1982 (DOC #129-860).
B4.  Summary of Findings of Housing Situation and Beneficiary Practices -
World Bank, September/October 1982 (DOC #129-860).
B5.  State Pensions Fund - Annual Reports and Accounts - 1981/82 and
1982/83 (DOC #129-860).
B6.  SSHFC - First and Second Actuarial Review 1979 and 1983 - Bowring and
Layborn (DOC #129-860).
C. Other
Cl.  Project Economic Evaluation and Financial Analysis Working Papers -
C. Tager and L. Clarke, respectively (DOC #129-860).
C2.  FinanciaL Estimates - Banjul City Council, 1979/80 - 1982/83 and
Kanifing Urban District Council, 1982/83 (DOC #129-860).
C3.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation Criteria (DOC #129-860).
1/   Project Correspondence File (PCF).



- v -
C4. Sundry Legal Documents and Acts - Government of The Gambia
(DOC #129-860).
C5. Estimates of Recurrent Revenue and Expenditure and Development
Expenditure - Government of The Gambia, 1981/82 and 1983/84
(Ref. GAM-182).
C6. Estimates of Development Expenditure - Government of The Gambia,
1982/83 (Ref. GAM-182).



- vi -
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiary:           Ministry for Local Government and Lands (MLGL) and the
Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC).
Amount:                SDR 11 million (US$11.5 million)
Terms:                 Standard
On Lending Terms:      Government will on-lend US$3.0 million to the SSHFC at
7%, with the remainder passed on to the MLGL, including
Banjul City Council and Kanifing Urban District Council
as a grant.
Project Description:  The proposed project will (a) strengthen the financial,
operational and managerial capacity of principal urban
institutions in the Greater Banjul area (Banjul, the
capital and environs) through training technical
assistance studies and the provision of essential
equipment; and (b) demonstrate the feasibility of
improving and extending deficient physical infrastrac-
ture in depressed areas and affordable serviced plots
and core shelter for low income beneficiaries. The
project will directly and indirectly improve the living
conditions of about 80,000 people through the provision
of improved water supply, sanitation, roads, drainage,
street and security lighting. In the spirit of the
Bank's Special Action Program (SAP), a Special Account
(revolving fund) will be established under the project
to expedite disbursements.
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The project will introduce policies and reforms for
managing the country's major urban areas, thus enhancing
their roles as a more efficient center of employment and
productivity, while providing increased support to
agriculture, industrial and tourism development. Other
benefits include improvements to city finances,
resulting from revaluation of property, improved health
and access for the bulk of urban residents in Greater
Banjul, strengthened institutions and better trained
personnel.



- vii -
Because a central project objective is to improve the
executing capacity of existing departments, a new and
separate project executing unit will not be established
for this project. Instead an existing Section in the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
will be upgraded into a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
As a result, the Director of the PCU, will have more of
a coordinating rather than an executive function. There
is therefore a risk Df some initial loss of efficiency
in execution of physical works. To minimize this risk,
the Director was selected early and participated in
negotiations. There is the related risk that the train-
ing and technical assistance will not have the intended
long-term impact. However, given that the primary
objective of the project in the Government's mind is
institutional development, and given the effort made at
tailoring these programs to The Gambia's needs, the risk
is worth taking. In addition, the relatively new Social
Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC) will
introduce for the first time in The Gambia measures for
recovery of land and infrastructure investments through
plot sales and it is possible that resistance to such
cost recovery may develop. The fact that the SSHFC is
relatively strong, is committed to financial profit-
ability and has the support of the Government, minimizes
these risks.



- viii -
Estimated Project Costs:
Foreign    Local      TOTAL
…---   (US$ million)---
Urban/Municipal Institutional Development        1.8         0.9       2.7
Infrastructure Improvements/Extensions
and Land Development                           4.7         2.8      7.5
Project Management/Coordination and
Future Preparation                             0.5         0.4      0.9
TOTAL BASE COSTS (including taxes)           7.0         4.1     11.1
Less taxes                                        --         0.8      0.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS (net of taxes)              7.0         3.3     10.3
Contingencies - Physical                         0.4         0.2      0.6
- Price                           1.0         0.5       1.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          8.4        4.0      12.4
Percentage
of Total
Financing Plan:                                Foreign    Local    TOTAL  Project Cost
-------…(U$ million)------
IDA                                              8.4         3.1      11.5        93
Government                                        -          0.9      0.9          7
TOTAL FINANCING                            8.4         4.0      12.4        100
Estimated Disbursements
from IDA credit:
FY85     FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
_____________ (UTS$ millionT--------------
Annual                        1.4 a/   1.7   2.5   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.1
Cumulative                    1.4      3.1   5.6   7.5   9.4  11.3  12.4
Economic Rate of Return:          31%
Staff Appraisal Report:           4628-GM
Maps:           IBRD No. 17155
IBRD No. 17156
IBRD No. 17198
IBRD No. 17199
IBRD No. 17349
a/ Includes refinancing of Project Preparation Facility advance of US$995,000
approved under the project.



I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. The National Economic Context
1.01     The Gambia is one of the smallest and poorest countries on the
African continent. In 1982 it had a total population of about 617,000, with a
current average per capita income of about US$370. Agriculture is the back-
bone of the economy, employing 80% of the working population, but claiming a
declining share of the economy's overall output. Farming and livestock
account for about 30% of GDP, down from 40% just five years ago. Groundnut
production dominates both directly and indirectly, generating 90% of total
export value and fueling the principal industrial activity of groundnut oil
milling.
1.02     Even with improved prospects for rural productivity, urban-based
domestic production will be central to The Gambia's economic growth targets.
Well over two-thirds of all wage employment and about one half of GDP is
generated by Government, trade/transport, agro-industry, tourism, and other
services located mainly in Greater Banjul. This pull of economic opportunity
has placed mounting obligations on public authorities to provide infra-
structure and basic services, which they have been ill-equipped to provide.
In absolute terms, the size of the urban population, which amounted to 140,000
in 1982, or almost a quarter of the total population, would appear to be of
little cause for concern. Yet in relative terms, the rapid rate of growth has
caused managerial and financial strains beyond the capacity of the relatively
poorly developed administrative structure.
1.03     The average urban growth rate is almost twice the national average of
2.8%. The overwhelming share of urban growth is concentrated in Greater
Banjul, which accounted for 15% of the 1982 total population and two-thirds of
the total urban population. At its current 8% growth rate per annum, Greater
Banjul's share of the urban population would top 70% towards the mid-1990s,
the urban population climbing from its present level to an estimated 40% of
the total population over the same period.
1.04     This pace of growth has already outstripped an inadequate network of
roads, drainage, water and sanitation infrastructure, increasing the costs of
economic activity for households, commercial users and Government. Disregard
for the timely provision and maintenance of infrastructure and basic services
imposes heavy investment and replacement costs, which Government can ill
afford. To the extent that the urban economy supports agricultural develop-
ment and is, itself, a driving economic force, the efficient management of the
urban sector becomes an important tool in the country's development strategy.
B. Urban Infrastructure and Shelter
1.05     Over 70% of the population of Greater Banjul and most of the area's
poor live in deteriorating conditions in the northwestern part of Banjul, and
the Bakau-Serrekunda areas on the Kombo-St. Mary Peninsula, stretching some



-2-
20 km beyond the city center. While the level and quality of services is
generally better in Banjul itself, sanitation is extremely poor, particularly
in the lower income, dense neighborhoods in the city center.
1.06     Sanitation is a city wide problem, with drainage channels beyond the
main streets blocked with solid waste and collapsed walls. In outlying Kombo-
St. Mary, drainage is virtually non-existent in residential areas where
stagnant pools of water collect, fostering the spread of water-borne and
associated disease to a population with an already grim health profile. Waste
disposal conditions are singularly deficient. Conditions are particularly
serious within the market network which constitutes the economic hub of both
central Banjul aqnd Kombo-St. Mary, contributing 40% of revenues to the BCC and
30% to the KUDC. These markets have long since outgrown their original
structures, creating serious conditions of overcrowding and presenting major
problems of sanitation, ventilation and circulation.
1.07     A practice of allocating raw land for house construction, without the
benefit of a structure plan, has put Government in the difficult and costly
position of attempting to finance the extension of basic services to these
areas after they are inhabited. Residential and commercial users are not only
inadequately served, but the level of existing services in many areas is fast
deteriorating because of the absence of any systematic maintenance. The pri-
vate sector has been the prime factor in house construction and is expected to
continue as such over the longer term. Recently, however, increased over-
crowding suggests that the absence of financing, the shortage and high cost of
building materials, and the inadequate supply of serviced land have slowed the
private sector response. Fewer than 2,400 new dwelling units are completed
and recorded in Greater Banjul during 1973-1978, compared to an increase of
4,700 households (6.3 persons per household) over the same period. Land,
which is vested in the State, is allocated to applicants for a period of
21 years on a largely ad hoc basis. An annual ground rent is charged when the
lease is granted, but the rate structure has not been revised since 1974, and
there has been no pricing system to recover the costs of servicing the land
with basic infrastructure. Cumbersome bureaucratic procedures and shortages
of staff and skills have virtually paralyzed the system, further impeding the
Government's capacity to extend services to the population.
C. Urban Institutions and Government Policy
1.08     The Government has only recently acknowledged the need to plan for
and manage urban growth as part of an overall development policy. Like other
small developing economies, The Gambia is ill-equipped to tackle the task.
Both public funds and managerial and technical skills are in critical short
supply and the institutional and policy framework is extremely fragile. While
the financial constraint is the most immediate obstacle to remedying the
infrastructure shortfall, effective investments over the longer term will
require a solid policy, an institutional framework, and able, dedicated staff,
if benefits of urban investment programs are to reach their intended benefi-
ciaries. It is for this reason that Government is seeking to strengthen the
institutional/policy framework as the first step in a phased approach to the
management of urban growth.



- 3 -
1.09     At the national level, The Ministry of Economic Planning and Indus-
trial Development (MEPID) is responsible for ensuring that urban investment
and policy are consistent with overall development objectives. The absence of
a comprehensive national urban policy and weak staffing have prevented MEPID
from fulfilling this goal in the past, although the Government intends to move
to rectify this situation. The Second National Development Plan (1981/82-
1985/86) introduced a policy which will envisage increased responsibility for
the execution of urban activities to the Ministry for Local Government and
Lands (MLGL), via a network of local authorities. The purpose of the shift is
to give greater autonomy to local governments and to reduce their financial
and administrative dependence on the central government. Local governments
will in principle carry the burden for ensuring the efficient development and
maintenance of urban areas. The construction of new assets requires a long
term financial capacity to ensure adequate maintenance and expanded delivery
in the future. Under the decentralization plan, this function will be
gradually reinstituted in the local development councils, all of which
presently lack the management skills, financial resources and manpower to
carry out this task, for which they were previously responsible.
1.10     To ease housing finance pressures, the Government created the Social
Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC) in 1981 with resources from
Government's pension fund as its financial nucleus. The aim of this institu-
tion is to facilitate access to credit by lower income groups previously
denied adequate financing possibilities, as well as to spur the efficient
development of serviced land. The institutional and policy changes underscore
Government's political commitment to improving the management and development
of urban areas.
D. Bank Strategy and Other External Assistance
1.11     IDA's involvement in The Gambia's urban areas has been largely
indirect across a range of sectors.  In 1970 it approved a US$2.1 million
credit to rehabilitate the port of Banjul, reinforced by a supplementary
credit of US$2.4 million in 1974 (Credit 187-GM). In 1976, IDA financed
an Infrastructure and Tourism Development Project (Credit 602-GM) of
US$4.0 million which improved infrastructure networks in higher income
neighborhoods and developed a tourist zone in Greater Banjul. In 1978, IDA
agreed to assist small scale industry development through a Rural and Urban
Enterprise Project (Credit 814-GM) of US$3.0 million.
1.12     The proposed project represents the Bank's first direct intervention
in The Gambia's urban sector. Following a brief sectoral review by a Bank
mission in August/September 1980, discussions were held with Government in
early 1981 on a number of issues and problems affecting the country's urban
development. Subsequent to the 1981 coup attempt, Government invited a Bank
reconstruction mission which assessed the dimension of damage in the urban
sector and assisted in the identification of the proposed project. A feasi-
bility study financed by the UNDP defined a broad urban rehabilitation program
that subsequently attracted an extraordinary degree of cooperation and coordi-
nation amongst a broad spectrum of donors. The Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ)
has already begun to provide assistance in urban master planning and invest-
ment programming. The People's Republic of China and UNIDO are financing



construction of a clay brick factory in Greater Banjul to promote expanded
employment opportunities and the use of low-cost, indigenous construction
materials. Thiis project is underway and the factory is targeted for comple-
tion in early 1984. The Italian Government has expressed agreement in
principle to financing the upgrading and rehabilitation of the School of
Public Health. The school is the sole local institution that trains field
health inspectors in the maintenance of adequate environmental sanitation
throughout The Gambia.
1.13     Through the proposed project, IDA will finance a series of measures
aimed at the strengthening of key institutions and the extension of essential
infrastructure. When the program was originally identified, the treatment of
the various efforts listed above as one large project with a number of co-
financiers was considered. However, given the complexity of the individual
efforts, especially those related to institutional development, it was decided
with Government and other financiers, that separate but complementary projects
will be the most appropriate administrative arrangement. The substantive
impact is similar to that which will exist with joint financing in the Bank
project. (At appraisal, the EEC did express an interest in funding some
credits for housing consolidation (about US$300,000), but this position was
later reversed, because of cost overruns on the Banjul Sewerage Project, which
is partly financed by the EEC and is now under implementation.)
II. ELEMENTS OF THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Main Project Features
2.01     The proposed project has two main objectives:
(a) strengthening the Ministry for Local Government and Lands (MLGL), the
Banjul City Council, Kanifing Urban District Council and the Social
Security and Housing Finance Corporation, to improve management and
operational efficiency; and
(b) demonstrating the feasibility of extending basic infrastructure, low-
cost and affordable serviced land and shelter to the bulk of the low-
income population, generating foreign savings wherever possible,
through the use of indigenous materials.
2.02     To achieve the above objectives, two components are proposed:
(a) urban/municipal institutional development; and (b) infrastructure
improvements/extensions and land development.



- 5 -
1.   Urban/Municipal Institutional Development
2.03     The project will provide:
(a)  local and foreign training, technical assistance and essential
equipment to upgrade the coordinating and executive functions of a
number of departments in the Ministry for Local Government and
Lands (MLGL);
(b)  a review and upgrading of the financial and operational procedures,
systems and fiscal base of Banjul City Council and Kanifing Urban
District Council, including a revaluation of property (resource
mobilization), and equipment, technical assistance and training to
improve maintenance and to install an efficient system of revenue
collection and arrears management; and
(c)  training and technical assistance to strengthen the operational and
financial efficiency of the SSHFC.
2.   Infrastructure Improvements/Extensions and Land Development
2.04     The project will finance:
(a)  the provision of essential infrastructure improvements and extensions
(drainage, water, electricity, roads, markets) for the Bakau and
Serrekunda areas in the KSM;
(b)  the development of serviced sites by the SSHFC, with essential
infrastructure and services primarily for low-income groups; and
(c)  a small credit line for core shelter consolidation on these serviced
plots.
B. Summary Project Costs
2.05     The table on the following page sets out the summary of total esti-
mated project costs. Detailed costs are in Annex 2. Total project costs,
excluding local taxes, are estimated at US$12.4 million. The foreign exchange
component is US$8.4 million, or 68% of total project costs. Estimated costs
of civil works are based on preliminary designs prepared by Government and a
consultant engineer, using unit prices provided by the Public Works Department
(PWD), The Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC) and private contractors. Com-
pletion of detailed engineering for major physical works, which has already
commenced, will be a condition of Credit effectiveness. Base costs are cal-
culated as at end of September 1983. Costs for technical assistance, con-
sultants and advisory services including fees, subsistence and travel are
based on recent experience at about US$8,000 per person-month on average for
foreign experts (fees, transportation, subsistence and accommodation) and
approximately US$1,000 for local experts (fees). Physical contingencies are
estimated at 10% of the estimated base cost for all civil works, including
land development infrastructure (6% of total base costs). No physical
contingencies were estimated for housing credit, technical assistance, and
training.



SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Dalasi '000                         US$ '000                                Percentage
Local    Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign    Total    of Base
A. URBAN/MUNICIPAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT a/
Strengthening of Ministry for Local Government
and Lands b/   (Sundry Depts)                           854       1,281      2,135         342         512        856          40          60       100           8
Municipal Development (Banjul City Council,
Kanifing Urban District Council and Local
Government Inspectorate Division)                       705       1,726      2,431         282         690        972          29          71       100          10
Resource Mobilization (Rating and Revaluation
of Property in Greater Banjul Area)                     184         585        768          73         234        307          24          76       100           3
Strengthening of SSHFC                                    279         431        710         111         172        284          46          55       100           3
Management Development Institute (Director
and Curriculum Advisor)                                 128         512        640          51         205        256          20          80       100           3
SUB-TOTAL                            2,150       4,535      6,684         860       1,814      2,674           32          68      100           27
B. INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS/EXTENSIONS                                                                                                                                     o
AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Improvements/Extensions to Essential
Infrastructure c/                                     3,148       7,665    10,812        1,259      3,066      4,325           29          71       100          42
Pilot Land Development Scheme                           1,091       1,888      2,979         436         755      1,191          37          63       100          11
Housing Credits                                           900       2,100      3,000         360         840      1,200          30          70       100          12
SUB-TOTAL                            5,139      11,653    16,791        2,055       4,661      6,716          31           69      100           65
C. PROJECT MANAGEMENT/COORDINATION AND
FUTURE PREPARATION                                      875       1,373      2,248         350         549        899          43          57       100           8
TOTAL BASE COSTS d/                  8,164      17,561    25,723        3,266       7,024    10,289            32          68       100         100
Contingencies - Physical                492         985     1,477         197         394        591           33          67
- Price               1,243       2,485                    497         994    1,491            33           67
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS e/               8,999      21,030    30,928        3,960       8,412    12,371            32          68
a/ Technical assistance, training (Chapter 4 and Annexes 4-1 and 4-2) and equipment (Annex 2).
b/ Excluding rating and revaluation exercise administered by Lands Department.
c/ Including emergency water supply rehabilitation works of D 1.5 million (base).
d/ Including design and supervision of 4% and 5% respectively in Item B.
e/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.



-7-
2.06     Because of the historically close movements in domestic and interna-
tional prices, price contingencies for both local and foreign costs have been
calculated in accordance with Bank guidelines for the expected increase of
international prices of 7.8% for 1983/84, 7.3% for 1984/85, 6.5% for 1985/86,
and 6.0% each for 1986/87 and 1987/88. These represent an overall price con-
tingency of about 14% of total baseline costs and physical contingencies of a
total of about 6% of total baseline costs.
C. Financing and Funds Flow
Financing Plan
DALASI                  US$           _%
(million)             (million)
IDA              28.7                   11.5            93
Government        2.3                    0.9             7
Total         31.0                   12.4          100
2.07     The proposed IDA Credit of US$11.5 million will finance 93% of
total costs, including the entire foreign exchange cost, estimated at
US$8.4 million. About US$3.1 million of local costs will be financed from the
Credit in view of the country's serious financial constraints. The total
Government contribution, is US$900,000 over the five year life of the
Credit. To assist in the completion of a number of preparatory tasks
(detailed engineering, aerial photography, establishment of the Project
Coordinating Unit and appointment of key technical assistance staff),
US$995,000 was financed under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
2.08     The Credit will be made to the Government of The Gambia, which will
on-lend 25% of total proceeds (US$3.0 million) to the SSHFC, at an interest
rate of 7% for 15 years, with 5 years of grace (para. 5.13).  (A small amount
of US$320,000 for technical assistance will be passed on as a grant to build
up the Corporation's equity base.) It will also pass 7% of total funds
(US$0.8 million) to BCC and KUDC in the form of a grant (para. 1.10). Remain-
ing project funds (US$8.5 million) will be utilized within the Government's
general budgetary allocation by the MLGL, GUC and MEPID for technical
assistance, training and equipment, infrastructure improvements and project
management and coordination respectively. Government will bear all foreign
exchange risks.



- 8 -
III. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Urban/Municipal Institutional Development
3.01     This component will provide institutional support for the two major
project executing agencies, MLGL and SSHFC, in the form of training, technical
assistance, and vehicles and equipment.
1.   Ministry for Local Government and Lands (MLGL)
3.02     The project will provide funding to the MLGL to improve its routine
planning, programming and operational capacity. A total of 51 person-years
of training and 15 person-years of technical assistance (details in
paras. 4.01-4.09) will assist in (a) strengthening five departments in the
Ministry; (b) upgrading the BCC, KUDC and the Local Government Inspectorate
Division (LGID) 1/; and (c) undertaking a rating and revaluation of property
exercise (resource mobilization).
3.03     Departmental Strengthening:  Project assistance will:
(a) strengthen registration, management, and mapping operations in the
Lands and Surveys Departments respectively, including a study of land
administration, pricing and development procedures in The Gambia
(Annex 4-4);
(b) strengthen the technical capacity of the Physical Planning Depart-
ment (PPD) including complementary support to the Federal Republic of
Germany's (GTZ) master-planning exercise;
(c) upgrade the Housing and Building Control Services Department (HBCSD) 2/
to improve its capacity to formulate and act on national housing
policy, including research into the use of technology, indigenous
building materials and construction technology; and
(d) assist the Community Development Department (CDD) to expand community
services and replicate a successful rural program using local
construction materials and developing construction skills.
3.04     Municipal Development:  Funds will be provided to review the rela-
tionships between central and local government regarding land development and
maintenance and to upgrade the financial and operational procedures and
systems of the BCC and the KUDC. Particular attention will be paid in both
1/   The LGID is located in the MLGL and is responsible for supervising,
auditing, and inspecting the operations and finances of all local
councils in The Gambia.
2/   The HBCSD is responsible for (a) regulating standards and practices
in the construction industry; (b) monitoring control of rents; and
(c) the development and promotion of the use of local building materials.



- 9 -
Councils to: (a) updating severely outdated financial records (before Credit
effectiveness 1/) and improving systems and procedures, including the prepara-
tion of a manual, and (b) upgrading the revenue collection capability.  A
start would be made towards returning maintenance and service functions to BCC
and KUDC. Significant training and technical assistance will be provided to
bolster the maintenance capacity in these Councils. Efforts will also be made
to strengthen the LGID, which is responsible for the overall supervision and
management of all municipal units in The Gambia. Technical assistance in both
Councils and the LGID will provide a significant amount of on-the-job
training.
3.05     Resource Mobilization (Property Rating and Revaluation):  The project
will provide the Councils with basic equipment, vehicles, training, and tech-
nical assistance for rating and revaluation of property in Banjul and the KSM
area, which has not been done for 20 years. Following negotiations the
existing valuation units in BCC and KUDC and six valuation assistants were
transferred to the valuation unit of the Department of Lands, which, for
purposes of economy of scale and operations, will henceforth be responsible
for country-wide revaluation exercises. Local councils will retain full
responsibility for collection of property rates. A Chief Valuation Officer,
funded under the project, will be appointed to head a team composed of the six
valuation assistants and possibly two valuation cadets to be recruited.
Valuation will cover some 8,000 properties over approximately two and a half
years, including six months upfront intensive training by the Chief Valuation
Officer of the support staff. Revaluation will be undertaken on the basis of
capital values. 2/ The exercise is expected to cost about D 650,000
(US$260,000) and is expected to yield over D 9 million (US$3.6 million) in
incremental revenues in 10 years (paras. 5.11 and 5.13). Promulgation of an
order by the Minister for Local Government and Lands, bringing into effect the
1978 Valuation Act which provides legislative authority for the valuation work
was recently completed.
2.   Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC)
3o06     Technical assistance under the project will assist the gradual build-
up of a strong internal accounting, auditing and legal capability in the
SSHFC. A study to determine and define appropriate financial and operational
policies will be undertaken and necessary adjustments made in consultation
with the Bank. Specific attention will be directed to the Corporation's
proposed policy on interest rates, resource mobilization and housing subsidies
in general and to the identification of criteria for ensuring continued
operational flexibility within changing economic conditions (Annex 4-4).
1/   As a condition of negotiations, Government will be required to
appoint two short-term (6 months each) consultants to update financial
records of both Councils.
2/   Primarily because an existing Rent Control Act is likely to
constrain market rentals, although in practice rents charged are usually
above official control levels. KSM is presently on the capital value
system.



- 10 -
These criteria will be spelled out in the subsidiary credit agreement, to be
signed between the Corporation and Government as a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
3.07     Through the land development scheme, the project will assist the
Corporation to acquire the capacity to develop land. The project will attempt
to introduce cost recovery for land development which is not current practice.
B. Infrastructure Improvements/Extensions and Land Development
1.   Infrastructure Improvements and Extensions
3.08     Essential infrastructure and market improvements will be provided to
some 440 ha in the Bakau and Serrekunda areas in KSM (IBRD Map No. 17155).
The proposed improvements and extensions of basic utility services and infra-
structure are expected to benefit some 50,000 people directly and an addi-
tional 30,000 indirectly. 1/
3.09     Bakau:  Some 40 ha will be upgraded through the provision of approxi-
mately 1.5 km of paved roads, 2 km of gravel roads, and improved drainage
(IBRD Map No. 17156). These improvements will reduce the chances of flooding,
facilitate the orderly collection of refuse, and vehicular and pedestrian
access for local residents. In addition, they will enhance access to the
rapidly developing Tourist Development Area, bordering on Bakau, which is a
major labor support area for the tourist industry. The water supply distribu-
tion system will be extended and additional standpipes provided to area resi-
dents. The low-tension electricity distribution system, obsolete, overtaxed
and a safety hazard, will be replaced with a distribution system capable of
meeting current and future demand for household connections and providing
security street:Lighting while also reducing system losses. A street naming
program will be instituted, as part of the updating of the cadaster. The
Bakau market will be extended through the provision of additional stalls and
"canteens" and improved through the provision of a toilet block, partial
reconstruction of a perimeter wall, and better drainage and sanitation.
3.10     Serrekunda:  The project will finance the upgrading and extension of
essential services and infrastructure to some 400 ha. The water distribution
network will be extended throughout the area and designed to permit eventual
100% private cormpound connections. As an interim measure, 35 standpipes will
be provided. The low-tension electricity distribution system will be over-
hauled and security street lighting provided throughout the area. The roads
and drains (including seven km of major arteries linking Bakau, Serrekunda and
Banjul) will be improved on an area-by-area basis, with the highest priority
assigned to the area in the immediate vicinity of the Serrekunda Market and
the lowest priority assigned to the area east of Airport Road (IBRD Map No. 17198).
Some 3 km of secondary roads will be tarred and 11 km gravelled to improve
access and solicd waste collection in an area hitherto inaccessible. A street
naming program will also be instituted.
1/ See Annex 13-1 for infrastructure design standards.



- 11 -
3.11     As part of the improvement of the Serrekunda area, the market will be
extended into the existing car park area, relieving congestion in the present
market and allowing access to the rear, residential access road. Sanitation
facilities and water supply will be improved and a half-built market shed
completed. The market will be linked to the proposed relocated taxi/bus park
by a pedestrian way (IBRD Map No. 17198).
3.12     Greater Banjul:  At the Greater Banjul level, the project will also
finance reconstruction of two boreholes in the Sukuta well-field and provide
emergency spare parts to the Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC). These mea-
sures shall augment the system-wide supply of water by some 600 million liters
p.a. and assist GUC in its operations and maintenance. Funds will also be
provided for the design of water supply and distribution works necessary to
meet the growing demand in Greater Banjul, which will be increased by the
proposed project.
3.13     The Albert Market in Banjul, the largest retail market in The Gambia,
which was built in 1856, will be upgraded. The project will finance priority
repair and rehabilitation work including:
(a) reconstruction of drains, culverts, outfalls, footpaths and existing
toilet blocks within the market area; and
(b) repair and rehabilitation of market sheds, including provision of new
concrete floors, vending slabs, gutters, downpipes, roofing, roof
vents, translucent sheets and repainting as necessary.
2.   Land Development and Housing Consolidation
3-14     The proposed pilot land development site lies some 11 km from Banjul
proper (IBRD Map No. 17155), in the Kanifing East area of KSM. Nearly 100 ha
of land are available for residential development, of which some 34 ha are to
be developed under the project. This site is ideally located, adjacent to the
Kanifing Industrial Estate and close to the proposed shopping and administra-
tive center to be established in the area (IBRD Map No. 17155). Gently slop-
ing and about 15 m above mean sea level the site is undeveloped, sparsely
treed and well-drained, with soil conditions ideal for housing construction
and installation of septic tanks or pit latrines. Electricity services are
available in the area while water mains are available along nearby Pipeline Road.
3.15     Access to the site will be provided from the main Banjul/Serrekunda
(and Airport) Road and also the new road serving the Management Development
Institute and Hotel Training School both financed under previous Bank projects.
The site layout is based on traditional spatial organization of private, semi-
public and public open space, and a hierarchical system of roads. Collectors
are built to tarmac standards from the main access roads down to gravel 1 cal
road2 and pedestrian walkways. Some 700 plots, ranging in size from 250m to
350m , will be serviced to eventually accommodate about 11,000 people. 1/
Beneficiaries will be selected from lower to lower-middle income groups, using
1/   See Annex 3-1 for physical design standards.



- 12 -
procedures and criteria outlined in Annex 3-2.  The target population is
defined as that having household incomes between D 170 and D 700 a month,
between the 20th and 80th percentiles on the income distribution curve. (See
also affordability analysis table on page 25.) About 60% of the plots will be
about 300m and serviced land will be set aside for public and community
facilities (IBRD Map No. 17199). A community center, which will also serve as
an adult literacy and day-care center, will be provided. Differential land
pricing based on access and location will be instituted. Initial land
development costs will be kept as low as possible but providing a minimum
level of acceptable services and future upgrading as residents' incomes
permit.
3.16     To facilitate implementation of the land development sub-component,
the Minister for Local Government and Lands has promulgated regulations under
the Lands (Bathurst and Kombo-St. Mary) Act relating to plot allocation and
granting of leases. In the regulations, the Minister has given SSHFC a
license to develop the site for the purposes of the Project. The regulations
provide for a deviation from the current practice of granting leases for a
term of 21 years, by extending the period to at least 50 years. Such leases
will be on the same terms and conditions prescribed by the Act, including an
option to renew. Plots will be allocated to beneficiaries by an Allocation
Committee in SSHFC under procedures and criteria outlined in Annex 3-2.
3.17     Housing Credits:  'Seed capital' will be provided to SSHFC to assist
the start up of its construction loans operations and to provide lower income
groups access to housing credit ordinarily excluided from conventional banking
channels. Housing credits will be available to some 75% of total beneficiar-
ies under the project. Credits will be voluntary for allottees of serviced
plots. Beneficiaries will be required to provide personal equity of at least
5% of construction costs based on income levels.. The housing credits, total-
ling US$1.4 million and averaging US$2,500 will facilitate the construction of
expandable core shelter units with proper sanitary facilities, utilizing local
construction materials wherever possible. A nuLber of typical units will be
built to demonstrate optimum use of plots and local building materials and to
assist in the development of basic construction skills.
IV. HUMAN RESOURCE I4ANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
4¢01     The strengthening and development of the major urban executing
agencies in The Gambia will play a central role under the proposed project.
As detailed in Annexes 4-1 to 4-4 and summarized in tables on pages 14 and 17,
a total of some 71 person-years of training (7% of total project costs or
US$1 million) and 29.4 person-years of technical assistance (18% of total
project costs or US$2.4 million) have been provided under the project to
strengthen the administrative capability of these institutions.



- 13 -
A. Staff Training
1.   Local Training
4.02     The table on the following page summarizes staff training under the
proposed project. Details are in Annex 4-1. About one quarter of the total
training costs have been earmarked for local training. The MLGL and the muni-
cipalities will be the major beneficiaries mainly through two in-house courses
to be run by the Physical Planning Department and the Local Government
Inspectorate respectively. In the case of the PPD, funding will be provided
for training 15 physical planning technicians in basic sub-professional skills
such as urban planning and design, building economics, draughtsmanship and
rudiments of architecture. Two two-year courses will be held under the
direction of a technical advisor financed by the Commonwealth Fund for Techni-
cal Cooperation and with assistance from selected local technicians and a team
from the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ) presently undertaking the master-
plan exercise. Ten qualified post-secondary school students will be recruited
for the first course and five for the second. Training will assume both an
on-the-job and in-studio/classroom dimension. Graduates will be absorbed upon
completion of training by the Department in the capital and other regions, as
detailed in a comprehensive strategic national, regional and local physical
planning program prepared by the Department (see Project Files). This train-
ing will contribute significantly towards enhancing the country's physical
planning capability and in monitoring its rapid urban growth.
4.03     Twice yearly for a period of four and a half years, the LGID will
conduct a training program for 10 technicians from various councils to upgrade
financial and administrative skills. Similar training existed up to three
years ago until funding provided by the Overseas Development Agency of the
U.K. was exhausted. These three weeks courses will be organized and directed
by technical assistance and qualified Local Government Inspectorate staff.
Training of these 90 personnel by project completion will be critical to the
development of a core of personnel to effectively fill the void for skilled
technicians currently affecting local authorities.
4.04     The Surveys and Lands Department in the MLGL is experiencing serious
problems and delays in routine operations, mainly as a result of the lack of
skilled technicians. The recently created HBCSD (para. 3.03) suffers from a
lack of both an adequate organization and suitably qualified administrative
and technical staff. These three departments will conduct limited cadetship
and specialized training for technicians and valuation assistants. These
training efforts will be initially organized by technical assistance funded
under the project (para. 4.08). A Project Launch Seminar will be conducted by
the Project Coordinating Unit to acquaint officials involved in project
execution with project objectives and procedures, while an implementation
seminar will review project direction and ensure necessary mid-course adjust-
ments. Finally, the Community Development Department (CDD) will hold an
educational workshop for various community leaders to familiarize them with
the project at an early stage of execution.



- 14 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT TRAINING
Total
Beneficiary                               Sub-component/Major Objectives               Type of Training               Proposed Location          Total Person Yrs         Cost a/
(D'OSS)
A. LOCAL TRAININC
1. MLGL
(a) Sundry Departments             Improving physical planning                In-house sub-                       The Gambia                      4 b/               286
capacity and upgrading local               professional
government technical staffing              seminars, workshops
capability
(b) Municipal Development          Strengthening municipal                    Organized technical                                                 5                   167
administrative, financial
and technical skills
(c) Resource Mobilization          Revaluation of property                    In-house sub-                                                       3                   40
professional
2. Project Management and             Installing sound project                   Project launch                                                       I                   10
Coordination                     management capacity and                    seminar
strengthening future project
preparation
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                                                                   13                  503
b. FOREIGN TRAINING
1. MLGL
(a) Sundry Departments            As in A.1.(a) above                         Technical fellowships            Ghana, Kenya,                     16                  511
and attachments                  Nigeria, Zimbabwe,
Zambia, U.K.
(b) Municipal Development         As in A.l.(b) above                                                                                            19                  425
(c) Resource Mobilization         As in A.1. (c)                                                                                                  4                  119
2. SSHFC                              Strengthening technical,                                                                                        7                  200
financial and administrative
skills of SSHFC
3. Project Management and             As in A.2. above                           Technical attachments            Kenya, Zambia,                     1                    46
Coordination                                                                                                 U.S., U.K.
4. Other                              Upgrading technical skills c/              Technical fellowships            U.K., U.S.                        11                   481
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                                                                  TS                 1,782
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                                                71                 2,2R5
a/ Including contingencies.
b/ Person-years for cadetship prograns financed for HBCS, PPD and Lands Development not included, since most training would be on the job as opposed to
other formal and organizaed types.
c/ Gn the School of Public Health and Ministry of Information and Tourism.



- 15 -
2.   Foreign Training
4.05     Foreign training will consist of short and medium-term fellowships
and attachments. Of a total of 57 person-years of foreign training, about
7 person-years will be for 27 senior and middle-level administrative and tech-
nical officers in the project executing agencies to pursue short familiariza-
tion visits and attachments to similar project sites and other institutions in
neighboring African countries. In addition, 23 fellowships will be awarded
over the four and a half year period for Gambians to pursue sub-professional
and professional technical and financial training principally in Nigeria,
Kenya, Zimbabwe, and Ghana, in courses lasting about two years on average.
Training will be in supervisory maintenance, valuation, accounting and
finance, land management, physical planning, architecture, draughtsmanship,
public health and a few other related technical skills.
4.06     To ensure that the benefits of training meet project objectives, it
was agreed at negotiations that Government identify and establish the terms of
reference of a technical sub-committee from within the Project Inter-Agency
Coordination Committee (para. 6.03). This sub-committee, which will include
senior representation from the Establishment Office will supervise and monitor
all project-related training. It will be responsible for reviewing and
setting long and short lists of potential candidates and for making final
recommendations to the Public Service Commission for selection. Beneficiaries
of training fellowships and attachments under the project will be bonded and
required to serve the respective agencies through which they were selected for
at least twice the length of time they were trained.
B. Technical Assistance
4.07     To strengthen their generally weak institutional capacity and support
project implementation, technical assistance will be provided to the principal
executing agencies in a number of areas, as summarized below and described in
more detail in Annex 4-2.
4.08     While the bulk of technical assistance costs are foreign, a sizeable
amount of local technical assistance will be employed mainly for providing
short-term support to the Departments of Surveys, Lands, HBCSD and the SSHFC.
The bulk of the local consultants will be drawn on a part-time basis from
other technical departments and the small private sector in The Gambia.
Government has requested that an expatriate serve as Project Director for at
least the first two years, on account of the unavailability of adequately
trained and experienced Gambians in this area (para. 6.02). Other technical
assistance will include:
(a) maintenance - a municipal engineer for one and a half year, to be
based in the LGID and be responsible for upgrading the maintenance
capability in all local authorities, including training of two
maintenance supervisors in BCC and KUDC (para. 3.04);
(b) municipal finance - three specialists (two for two years each and one
for 18 months) to assist BCC and KUDC to upgrade their financial and
operational records, systems, staffing and procedures, and, in LGID,



- 16
to review operational systems and design training programs for local
councils country-wide;
(c) rating and revaluation - a Chief Valuation Officer (CV0) for two and
a half years to reestablish a valuation unit in the Lands Department
to train valuation assislants and implement revaluation work in
Greater Banjul; and
(d)  technical supervision of civil works - a civil engineer for two years
to be attached to the PWD, but to be responsible for supervising the
construction of the civil works for the project including smaller
items such as the markets and Community Center.
Appointment of the CVO, municipal financial specialists and the PWD engineer
is to be made within three months of Credit effectiveness. Funds have also
been provided for short-term conisultancies to assist in future project
preparation and strategic national urban developinent design.
4.09     In addition, a Director/Chief Technical Advisor will be recruited for
two years for the recently constructed Mlanagement Development Institute (LMDI)
financed under the First IDA Education Project (Credit 792-GM). Funding under
the project will be supplemented by TJNDP for about 9 man-months in FY84, in
the initial period of MDI's operations.  A specialist in curriculum develop-
ment will also be recruited with project funding for the development of
suitable curricula and courses for the Tnstitute.  Candidates for these posts
will be appointed after prior consultation with IDA (Terms of Reference in
Annex 4-3).  The MDI, the first of its kind in The Gambia, will largely be
responsible for training staff of the public and private sectors in manage-
ment. The Institute will provide suitable facilities for assisting in
aspects of the locally funded training programs under the proposed Project
(paras. 4.02 - 4.04). During negotiations assurances were obtained that
Government will provide competent counterpart staff to support the technical
assistance team and to operate the Institute on an efficient basis.
4.10     To ensure maximum benefit from all project technical assistance,
consensus was arrived at with Governrment for the observance of guidelines in
the design andl administration of technical assistance contracts. In the case
of the municipal development sub-components, emphasis will be placed on
seconding technicians from municipalities in other countries to bring to bear
a practical bias. As part of their terms of reference, which were all
finalized at negotiations (Annex 4-3), technical assistance will be required
to provide a miniimum of one day per week of on-the-job training for
operational staff in their assignments and to provide written manuals and/or
guidelines by the completion of their stay. Technical assistants will have
only advisory responsibility, with line responsibility being delegated to
local counterparts to be identified at the outset in most of the short- and
medium-term specialist assignments to be filled. Studies to be spearheaded by
technical assistance personnel (Annex 4-4) will also include at least one
local staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these will be
diligently undertaken and agreement was reached on the respective terms of
reference. The technical sub-committee from the Inter-Agency Coordinating
Committee responsible for monitoring project training will also supervise the



- 17 -
technical assistance elements of project execution, including the studies.
The Deputy Director of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be responsible
for the day-to-day monitoring of project training and technical assistance
(para. 6.02).
SUMMARY OF PROJECT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Subcomponent/          Specialization              Person  Foreign  Total Funds
Beneficiary               Financed                 Years    Costs   Allocated a/
_____--(D  0 ------
1.   MLGL
-  Sundry            (a) Valuation Expert
Departments b/   (b) Community Develop-
ment and Lands
Specialists                7.1     883       1,205
(c) Sundry Local Assignments
-  Municipal         (a) Municipal
Development           Financial and
Training Specialists       8.5   1,569       1,669
(b) Municipal Engineer
2.   SSHFC             (a) A few technical and
financial short-term
specialists                2.2     225         450
3.   PROJECT           (a) Project Director
MANAGEMENT AND   (b) Civil Engineer             11.6   1,716       2,562
COORDINATION      (c) Managing Director c/
TOTAL                                       29.4   4,393       5,886
a/   Including contingencies.
b/   Excluding municipal development, but including resource mobilization.
c/   US$280,000 included under this project for financing of technical
assistance for the Director and Curriculum Advisor of the Management
Development Institute.



- 18 -
V.  FINANCIAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT, DEVELOPMENT AND COST RECOVERY
A. Strengthening of Shelter Finance Capability
5.01     Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC).  Prior to
the start-up of SSHFC's operations in 1982, the bulk of finance for shelter
was provided by the Central Government (mostly for public servants) and the
private banking sector. Access to both was limited because of resource
constraints in the former case and reluctance to lend beyond five years in the
latter case. Beneficiaries tended to be of the higher and medium levels of
income, with virtually no finance available for the mass of the lower income
population (para. 3.17). One of the major objectives in creating the SSHFC
was to bridge this financial gap. At the outset, Government was considering
the creation of a full-fledged new Housing Finance Corporation/Bank.
Subsequent to Government's request for comments on the proposals, the Bank
advised against the creation of yet another institution in a country as small
as The Gambia. Government accepted this view and used an existing
intermediary, the State Pension Board (as was done in neighboring Ghana).
5.02     The SSHFC derived its origin from the State Pension Board (SPB) which
was, prior to the creation of the SSHFC, the institution responsible for
managing pension funds of public servants employed in government corporations.
There are two Funds in the Corporation: (a) a Social Security Fund; and (b) a
Housing Fund. The Social Security Fund consists of the Pension and Provident
Fund Accounts. The bulk of membership contributions are allocated to the
Pension Fund Account. Statutorily the Social Security and Housing Fund
Accounts are distinct, with legally defined objectives and uses. All contri-
butions received from member corporations (20% of total employee salaries) are
paid into the Social Security Fund, and are subsequently invested in either
government securities or loans to members. 1/ Statutorily, although SSHFC is
permitted to transfer limited amounts of funds from the Social Security Fund
to the Housing Fund, the Corporation has no plans for doing so in the near
future. Nevertheless, since the safeguarding of the social security rights of
contributors is paramount in the management of SSHFC's resources, assurances
were obtained at negotiations that during the period of project implementation
the Corporation will make no sizeable transfers of these funds above D 500,000
in any one fiscal year without prior consultation with IDA (para 5.03). As
1/   To the extent that Government has fully provided SSHFC's seed equity
and that public sector resources (social security contributions of public
corporations constitute the largest source of SSHFC's funds), the Cor-
poration could be viewed as another traditional central government agency
in the housing finance sub-sector. One of the project's objectives will
be to reduce the Corporation's dependence on central government funds,
through development of a capacity for internally and externally mobiliz-
ing required resources. It is also hoped that in time the Corporation's
Housing Department will spin off as a full-fledged Housing Corporation or
Bank.



- 19 -
shown in the table on the following page, SSHFC inherited a fairly healthy
financial base from the SPB. Total SPB assets and gross profits have grown
consistently since its creation in 1978, at a rate of about 28% each in the
past three years of operations (1980-1982). Both profitability and liquidity
measures were also sound. Gross return on accumulated funds averaged over
5% p.a. between 1980 and 1982, which is reasonable in view of the fact that
non-operating expenses are negligible in the Corporation. Over the same
period, the current ratio averaged 9.4, despite a significant reduction in the
latter between the 1980 and 1981 fiscal years. This represents a significant
margin of safety in an institution where most of its liability structure tends
to be long term in nature.
5.03     Actuarily, the Social Security Fund is also in sound health.  A
recently concluded actuarial assessment of the Corporation's Pension Scheme,
covering the three year period ending June 30, 1981, has indicated that on
balance asset values of the portfolio far exceed expected liabilities for the
Scheme (Annex 5-1). In fact the Scheme is in such good shape that reduction
in members' contributions is possible, although it is unlikely that this step
will be taken by the Corporation. The next actuarial assessment covering the
July 1, 1981 through June 30, 1984 period will be undertaken in July 1984, as
is statutorily required every three years. Since 1981, no major changes in
asset or liability structures have taken place to adversely affect the current
value of the portfolio.
5.04     SSHFC mobilizes the bulk of its total gross revenues (77% in 1982)
from the contributions of 16 corporate members. This membership has been
relatively constant since the Corporation's creation but management antici-
pates additional enrollments as SSHFC grows. At present, legal constraints
prevent the Corporation from mobilizing savings, but steps are being taken to
enact the necessary enabling regulations. Although the Corporation has virtu-
ally no experience in borrowing, it is highly likely that this will be a major
source of funding in the future. Application of resources in SSHFC has
largely taken the form of gratuity and pension payments. Salaries and other
emoluments have represented the largest item of expenditure (37%) in
1981/82. Income from investments and loans accounted for over 80% of total
operating revenues of SSHFC in that year.
5.05     Resources from the Housing Fund are to be derived from (a) external
loans and grants; (b) public sector appropriations; (c) customer deposits
(para. 5.03); and (d) operational reflows. The SSHFC statutes require three
accounts to be created for the Housing Fund: (a) Loan Account; (b) Admini-
stration Account; and (c) Reserve Account, to facilitate operational
efficiency. Although experience of the Housing Fund Account is limited
presently to less than one year, Annex 5-2 presents a forecast profile of its
likely build up over the next ten years. Through the execution of its two
major housing projects, the IDA Project and the Gambia Norwegian Housing



- 20 -
STATE PENSION FUND
SUMMARY FINANCIAL INDICATORS a/
(July 1/June 30)
(D'OOO
Average
Operations                             1979/1980   1980/1981    1981/1982   Growth
Audited       Audited    (Unaudited)  -(_%)7
Total Gross Income                        2.7           2.5          3.6           14
(Membership Contributions) b/            (1.5)         (1.7)        (2.8)         (38)
Total Gross Expenditure                   0.3           0.4          0.6           30
(Pension Payments and Gratuities) b/ (0.1)             (0.2)        (0.2)         (14)
Excess of Income over Expenditure c/  2.4               2.0          3.0           13
Gross Operating Profit d/                 0.3           0.4          0.4           28
Resource Management
Total Assets                              7.8           9.8         12.8           28
Total Investments                         7.4           6.6         10.3           18
Accumulated Fund.                         5.4           7.8         12.4           51
Ratio/Relationships
Gross Return on Accumulated Fund e/   5.0               6.2          4.8           5.3
Current Ratio (av.)                      12.3           7.2          8.6           9.4
Benefits Payments/Av. Accumulated
Fund Balance                            2.3           3.3          1.6           2.5
Return on Investments f/ (%3              3.6           5.8          5.1           4.8
Number of Contributors to
Fund (Corporations)                      -            16           16             -
a/  Became Pension Fund and Provident Fund Accounts with formation of SSHFC.
b/ Largest item of income or expenditure respectively.
c/ Total receipts, including membership contributions.
d/ Operating income less operating expenses (not including membership
contributiorLs) .
e/  Gross profit; divided by average balance on accumulated Fund, except for
1980 when year end balance used.
f/  Interest on investments divided by total average outstanding investments
at year-end, except for 1980 when year end investment figures used.



- 21 -
Scheme (GANOC), 1/ the Housing Fund is projected to almost triple its 1982/83
assets level by 1992/93, growing steadily each year over the period. In
addition, the Fund's operational profit is forecast to grow robustly each year
over the same period (Annex 5-2) doubling between 1983/84 and 1992/93. While
most of the Housing Fund's resources will initially come from externally
generated sources (loans and Government grants), indications are that with
prudent financial management and sound operational policies and procedures,
the Housing Fund and the SSHFC as a whole (Annex 5-2) will be in a strong
position within five years to contribute to the reduction of the shelter and
infrastructure shortage in The Gambia. Assurances were received at negotia-
tions that during the life of the project, SSHFC will consult with the
Association prior to undertaking any new housing scheme with a total value
estimated to exceed D 5 million.
B. Strengthening of Municipal Finance Capability
5.06     Over the past two years both BCC and KUDC finances have deteriorated
dramatically. This situation is in contrast to earlier years where both
councils recorded operational surpluses in virtually every year. Rapid growth
in administration and personnel expenditures, poor financial management and
falling revenue collection performance, and the failure to adjust revenue
structures to price level changes have all contributed to the decline from
surplus to deficit operations in both councils.
5.07     While rates and taxes have consistently represented an average of 50%
and 35% respectively for BCC and KUDC, incomes have grown only modestly over
the past five years. In addition, very poor revenue collection performances
have had a negative net impact on operating and liquidity positions. It is
estimated that total revenue arrears average some 30% for BCC and 50% for KUDC
of total budgeted revenues and have been growing even more rapidly in recent
years. For both councils, increases in actual recurrent expenditure over the
past five years have exceeded those of revenues (42% contrasted with 10% for
BCC and 757% contrasted with 250% for KUDC). Virtually no capital expenditure
has been undertaken in either council over this period (para. 1.09), as they
have both been relieved of this function by the Central Government.
1.   Banjul City Council (BCC)
5.08     Annexes 5-3 and 5-4 set out the likely forecast revenue/expenditure
position for BCC and KUDC respectively without the proposed project. Both
councils will experience increasing financial deficits in each of the next ten
years, unless substantial government grants are provided. By contrast, the
situation is expected to significantly improve with the proposed project
(Annex 5-5). Most of the positive impact will arise from increments in rates
and taxes following the proposed revaluation of property in both Banjul and
KSM. In the case of BCC, an initial rise of 50% in income from rates in
1985/86 and 1986/87 followed by a 25% annual increase between 1986/87 and
1/   A scheme of 200 Norwegian built and financed pre-fabricated homes
for low-income persons. Each unit presently costs at least D 20,000, and
is affordable only to middle and higher income Gambians.



- 22 -
1988/89, together with a 10% adjustment in licenses and market tariffs will
ensure annual recurrent surpluses from as early as 1986/87. Annex 5-5
illustrates that in the most likely scenario, net incremental revenues
resulting from these adjustments are expected to amount to over D 5 million
between 1983/84 and 1991/92, closing the deficit projected without the project
in each year after 1986/87. Property rates will provide an additional
D 6.5 million of gross revenues over the same period, primarily as a result of
the rating and revaluation improvements. However, BCC's ability to fully
capture these potential benefits will depend on strengthened revenue collec-
tion efforts under the project, including bringing on roll an additional
25% (525 plots) of property not previously registered. At negotiations,
assurances were received regarding Government's commitment to annual
adjustments in rates and other major revenues to ensure the Council's rapid
return to financial viability. Agreement was also reached on the composition
and structure of a reorganized revenue collection unit and on steps to
intensify recovery of revenue arrears.
2.   Kanifing Urban District Council (KUDC)
5.09     As shown in Annex 5-4, KUDC's financial position has been less
healthy than that Df BCC's. As a result, while proposed revenue adjustments
in KUDC will go far towards improving the Council's financial picture, they
are unlikely to have the same positive impact. Projections indicate that to
close its operational deficit over the next ten years, KUDC will require
average annual revenue increments of almost 200%. Stringent expenditure cuts
and improved efficiency will probably reduce this requirement to about 150%
annually.  Most of these increases will be acquired from rates.  However,
although current rates payable in the Kanifing area average only about 3% of
combined water and electricity charges for the typical landlord, increases of
the magnitude required to immediately bring the Council fully in balance are
likely to be politically unacceptable. A gradual and phased program of
reforms and adjustments is therefore necessary, and the government has
indicated that the following measures represent their minimum targets. In
addition to bringing on roll an additional 50% (2,000 plots) of property not
previously registered, initial adjustments in rates of 50% for two years would
be made, followed by increases of 25% p.a. each for two years and 5% there-
after, together with 10% increases in other revenues.
5.10     At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) a progressive level of annual revenue adjustments would be instituted
for a number of years;
(b) enforcement of very strict expenditure control and budgeting within
KUDC; and
(c) formulation of details for the design and installation of a revenue
collection unit in the Council.



- 23 -
C. Cost Recovery and Beneficiary Affordability
5.11     The following table on the next page indicates that some 38% of total
project costs will be recovered from direct beneficiary sources, with the
remaining 62% through indirect channels, mainly in the form of increments in
property taxation, other tariffs and fees and changes against general
Government revenue sources.
1.   Capital Costs
5.12     SSHFC:  The SSHFC will fully recover its on-site 1/ infrastructure
costs through beneficiary repayments for the development of land and housing
credits granted. The table on the next page shows that all project benefi-
ciaries as low as the 20th income percentile (D 174 monthly income) will be
able to service investment costs and reasonable utility charges (water and
electricity collected by GUC), including adjustments for inflation. The small
amount of institutional development costs (D 300,000) will be recovered over
time from increments to municipal revenues, largely as a result of the rating
and revaluation exercise and charges against general Government revenues.
5.13     The SSHFC will borrow funds from Government at 7% per annum for
15 years and will on-lend to project initial beneficiaries at 9% for 25 years,
subject to the findings of the study to be implemented on interest rates
(para 3.06). Given the current inflation rate of 8% in The Gambia, (which Bank
forecasts indicate is likely to subsist in the near future), the on-lending
rate will be positive. Assurances were obtained at negotiations for periodic
upward adjustments in the on-lending rate, reflecting changing economic
circumstances and the internal revenue situation of the Corporation. Addi-
tionally, if the findings of the study suggest it, adjustments in the on-
lending rates will be made for subsequent beneficiaries.
5-14     Other Agencies:  As the table on page 24 indicates, the GUO will
recover its costs over time from increments to utility charges to be paid by
both project beneficiaries and GUC's existing clientele as a whole. Local
authorities will recover its market investments through increments to existing
tariffs. All the other forms of capital cost recovery by other entities will
take place from indirect revenue sources, mainly through rate increases in the
municipalities and through charges against general government revenues.
1/   On-site infrastructure represents all installations and construction
on the project site. These are usually identifiable and chargeable to
individual plot beneficiaries. On-site infrastructure not directly
recoverable includes all public areas, community facilities and open
space on the project site. These costs are generally considered non-
assignable to individuals. Off-site infrastructure represents all
infrastructure that is not directly located on the site, but installed as
a result of the project, usually to facilitate access or connections to
existing infrastructure. This includes trunk water mains, electricity
distribution networks, access roads, etc. Off-site infrastructure is not
directly chargeable to individual beneficiaries, as generally such
infrastructure benefits people outside of the project sites and is often
necessary with or without the project itself.



- 24 -
COST RECOVERY ANALYSIS FOR PROJECT COSTS
Maximum        Relevant Costs
Entity                       Broject Item/Sub-component          Source of Recovery          Recovery Period   (US$ million)
A. DIRECT RECOVERY
1. Central Government
SSHFC                  Housing Credits                  Project Beneficiaries            25 years                1.5
(Loan repayments)
On-Site Infrastructure             "      "       "'                 "                    1.1
GUC                    Water and Electricity            (Incrementa i Utility
Charges a                       "    "                  1.7
SUB-TOTAI,                                                                                          4 3
2. Local Government
BCC                    Market                           General Users
(Incremental Tariffs)            10 years approx. b/   0.2
KUDC                   Markets                           "  "                            10 years approx. b/   0.2
SUB-TOTAI                                                                                           0.4
COSTS DIRECTLY RECOVERED                                                                            4-7   (38%)
B. INDIRECT RECOVERY (charges against general central and local government revenues)
PWD                    Infrastructure Improvements/Extensions, Land Development              -                   3.7
Off-site Infrastructure (except markets, water and electricity)
MEPID                  Project Coordination and future Preparation                           -                   1.0
MLGL                   Urban/Municipal Institutional Strengthening                           -                   2.5
(including BCC and      (including resource mobilization)
KUDC)
MDI                    Technical Assistance                                                  -                   0.3
SSHFC                  Institutional Strengthening                                          _                    0.3
COSTS INDIRZCTLY RECOV-REID  (GOtvErŽ4ENT LIABILITY) c/                                             7.8   (62%)
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS TO BE RECOVERED                                                                12.5 d/(lOO%)
a/ Project beneficiaries and non-project benificiaries, particularly those in adjacent localities.
b/ Estimated time taken to recover costs from increases in tariffs per stall following improvement.
c/ Extent of Government liabilities, which are to be enhanced from increased local rates from revaluation exercise and
Central Government revenues.
d/ Figure differs from total project costs on page 6 due to rounding.



- 25 -
Plot Affordability Analysis for Land Development and
Housing Consolidation Sub-Components
(Based on a 9% On-Lending Rate)
Plot Size (m2)                         250          300            350
Total No. of Plots                           140 (20%)    420 (60%)      140 (20%)
Total No. of Beneficiaries                 1 ,500       4,500          1 ,500
D            D              D
Plot Development Costs                     1,538        2,460          3,587
Minimum Shelter Costs                      4,450        6,675          8,900
Registration, Survey, Fees                   125          150            175
Total Capital Costs                        6,113        9,285         12,662
Downpayment                                  306          929          1 ,899
Amount to be Financed                      5,807        8,357         10,763
Monthly Principal and Interest                49           70             90
Utilities                                      1            8             17
Ground Rent, Property Tax                     3             4              5
Total Monthly Payments                        53           82            112
Minimum Monthly Income                       174          272            375
Lowest Percentile of Income                  21            38             59
Distribution Reached a/
a! Assumes 30% of household income is spent on shelter, utilities and rates.
2.  Recurrent Costs
5.15     The table on page 26 shows the likely impact of the project on
Government recurrent finances. SSHFC will fully cover its recurrent costs
from internal recurrent revenues from as early as 1983/84 through 1992/93.
Such a performance will induce a significant improvement in the Corporation's
financial profile, largely arising from the 2% spread on the IDA project.
From 1986/87, after the impact of the rating and revaluation of property work
becomes evident, BCC will reflect annual surpluses on its recurrent account
and will substantially cover project-related recurrent costs by 1992/93.
However, since KUDC, while showing an improving financial profile, will still
not be fully covering annual recurrent costs from internal recurrent sources,
continued Government support amounting to about D 300,000 yearly on average
will be necessary until 1989/90. From thereon annual revenue surpluses will
gradually contribute towards recovery of project related incremental costs
(para. 5.10).
5.16     Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that it will
be seriously committed to cost recovery under the project and will continue to
assume liability for financial short-falls affecting entities until the
increased revenues generated by the project eliminate past deficits. This
will require inter alia periodic reviews of the pricing systems in all project
agencies, with suitable and timely adjustments in tariffs.



FORECAST RECURRENT FINANCES OF MAJOR PROJECT ENTITIES (WITH PROJECT)
(July - June)
(D million)                                                                 Cumulative
1983/84-
Agency                    1981/82       82/83       83/84      84/85     85/86      86/87     87/88      88/89      89/90     90/91      91/92      92/93    1992/93
SSHFCe/                   (Actual)  (Estimates)
Costs                      o.4         0.8           1.2        1.7       1.9        2.2       2.7        2.9       3.0        3.2        3.4        3.7      --
Revenues                   0.9          1.3          1.6        2.1       2.5        2.9       3.3        3.5        3.8       4.1        4.4        4.7      --
Excess (Deficit) of
revenues over costs      0.5         0.5           0.4        0.4       0.6        0.7       0.6        0.6       0.8        0.9        1.0       1.0       7.0
Revenues (without
project)                 0.1         0.1          (0.3)      (0.5)     (0.3)       0.1       0.3        0.4       0.6        0.6        0.7        0.8      2.4
MLGL- 
Costs                      6.9          7.3          5.2        5.6       6.2        6.7       7.2        7.8       8.5        9.1        9.8      10.6
Revenues                   6.9         7.3           5.2        5.6       6.2        6.7       7.2        7.8       8.5        9.1        9.8      10.6
BCC-/
Costs                      0.7          1.2          1.5        1.6       1.7        1.8       2.0        2.1       2.2        2.3        2.5        2.6       --
Revenues                   1.6          1.1          1.1        1.1       1.6        1.9       2.2        2.7       2.8        3.0        3.2       3.4
Excess (Deficit) of
revenues over costs      0.9         (0.1)        (0.4)      (0.5)     (0.1)       0.1       0.2        0.6       0.6        0.7        0.7       0.8        2.7
conct (without            0.1-/        0.1         (0.2)      (0.3)     (0.3)      (0.4)      (0.5)     (0.5)      (0.6)      (0.7)     (0.8)      (0.9)     (5.2)
KUDC-/
Costs                      0.5          0.6          0.8        0.8       1.0        1.0       1.1        1.2        1.2       1.3        1.4        1.5       __
Revenues                   0.6         0.5           0.5        0.5       0.6        0.8       0.9        1.1       1.2        1.3        1.4        1.6       __
Excess (Deficit) of
revenues over costs      0.1         (0.1)        (0.3)      (0.3)     (0.4)      (0.2)     (0.2)      (0.1)       -          -          -        0.1       (1.4)
Rcvenues (without
project)                 0.1-/      (0.1)         (0.1)      (0.2)     (0.3)      (0.3)     (0.3)      (0.4)     (0.4)      (0.5)      (0.5)     t0.6)      (3.6)
a/ Details of cost and revenues in Annex 5-3.
b/ Details of MLGL recurrent costs with and without project are in Annex 5-7.
c/  Details of BCC and KUDC recurrent costs and revenues with the IDA are in Project Files (Ref. No. 129-860) and Annex 5-6.  Financial
details without IDA project are at Annex 5-5.  Figures for 1981/1982 are from approved estimates.



- 27 -
VI. PROJECT COORDINATION AND EXECUTION
6.01     As in other recent World Bank projects, the Ministry of Economic
Planning and Industrial Development will be responsible for project coordi-
nation.  Execution will be the responsibility of the MLGL and the SSHFC.  The
Chart overleaf illustrates project coordination and execution arrangements.
A. Project Coordinating Unit
6.02     An existing urban desk with one technical officer will be upgraded
and will serve as a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). (This desk currently
monitors economic developments in the country's urban sector and works closely
with the MLGL in providing realistic investment content to the physical plans
designed for the country). The PCU will be responsible for overall project
coordination and management, reporting monitoring and evaluation and project
finances. It will also liaise closely with the two major executing agencies
(MLGL and SSHFC). The unit will be staffed by a Director, a Deputy Director
and an Accountant, with a few supporting staff. An expatriate director, a
Kenyan architect planner, has already been appointed. He has had previous
experience in three World Bank projects and is currently a senior officer in
the Engineer's Department of Nairobi City Council. An incumbent on the urban
desk, a Gambian economist, will be responsible primarily for monitoring,
evaluating and supervising implementation of all the technical assistance and
training components. Appointment of all remaining PCU staff is a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
6.03     Similar to other Bank projects, coordination efforts of the PCU will
be enhanced by the retention of the Inter-Agency Coordination Committee (ICC),
consisting of all agencies and ministries, which were responsible for project
preparation. The ICC, which will continue to be chaired by the Permanent
Secretary of MEPID, will include the Permanent Secretary of the MLGL and the
Managing Director of the SSHFC. One of the major responsibilities of the ICC
will be to monitor training and technical assistance components through its
technical sub-committee (para. 4.06).
B. Project Execution
1.   The Ministry for Local Government and Lands (MLGL)
6.04     Execution of the institutional development and municipal infrastruc-
ture improvements components will be the primary responsibility of the MLGL,
which is headed by a Permanent Secretary, assisted by Directors as Depart-
mental Heads. The Ministry comprises five departments 1/ and a number of
divisions and sections and has direct responsibility for municipalities in The
Gambia. While the implementation capacity of MLGL is generally weak, a core
of capable and experienced technicians exists in each of the departments.
1/   Physical Planning, Lands, Housing and Building Control Services,
Cooperatives and Surveys Departments.



- 28 -
PROJECT COORDINATION AND EXECUTION ARRANGEMENTS
PERMVANENT SECRETARY (MEPID)
r     COMMITTEE                                    PR YOJECT COORDINATING UNITI
MINISTRY FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT                                                                                      1
AND LAh'DS
COMIUN}TY                PHYSICAL                 HOUSING  S
DEVgLOPMENT              PLANNING                 BUILDING CONTROL                                           PUBLIC WORKS *
_ UUPAP.TM)OT           DEPARTMENT                SERVICES DEPT.               LANDS DEPARTFENT                  DEPT.                 GAMB1A UTlLITiES CORP.
-  MODEL HOUSES          -  MASTER PLAN           -  RENT CONTROL              -  LANDS REGISTRATION-I -  SUPERVISION OF               -  WATER SUPPLY AND
-  INFORMATION           -  SITE LAYOUT -  f    -  BUILDING CONTROL            -  TRAINING, VALUATION           CONSULTANTS               ELECTRICAL WORKS
-  PUBLICITY                KANIFING             -  BUILDING MATERIALS  E                                   -  SUPERVISION OF**
-  APPROPRIATE           -  UPGRADING       I        RESEARCH                                                   CONTRACTS
TECHNOLOGY              PROPOSALS                                              ATTORNEY
-  OPERATION OF         -  HOUSE DESIGN                                           GENERAL'S DEPT.
COMMUNITY                SURVEY OF
CENTER                   EXISTING DE-
VELOPMENT AND  F
PROPOSALS
(ASSISTANCE
FROM GTZ)
EANJUL CITY COUNCIL                LOCAL. GOVT.                 SURVEY D-PT.
KANIFING LUNAiN DISTRICT          INSPECTOAAIT  uIV.              MAPPING
OUNCIL          .                                      -  CA3AST'AL
PSUIITCT7AI, "ANAGM2IENT        -  AUDIT 5 INSPEC.               KANIFING SITE
-  TRAINING                        -  TRAINING (FINANCIAL        -  DEED PLANS                                                   SOCIAL SECURITY AND SOESING
-  SUBURBAN MAINTENANCE               AND MATNTENANCE)           - ENGINEERING SURVEYS                                                  FISANCE C RP'.
-REVENUE COLLECTION                -  SYSTEMS DESIGN             -     I     N U       SC O
HOUSE DESIGNS       HOUSING              PLOT
CRFDITS         ALLOCATION
- BUILDING MATERIALS                   - MORTGAGE
- PURCHASE ARRANGE-                      AGREEMENT
MENTS                                - LEASES
- ADMINISTRATION
* Supervision only
** S + S Scheme Eanifing; Upgrading Bakau; SerraKunda; Pipe Line Road; Taxi Park



- 29 -
Training should bolster this capacity. The Physical Planning, Lands, Surveys
and Community Development Departments will implement their respective
technical assistance and training components, while the LGID and the two
municipalities (BCC and KUDC) will execute the municipal development sub-
components. The councils will execute their technical assistance, training,
and reorganizational activities. MLGL will be responsible for the design of
the physical works fDr the infrastructure improvements. Execution of civil
works will be contracted to the private sector and supervised by the Public
Works Department (PWD), except for the water supply which will be undertaken
by force account in The Gambia Utilities Corporation. Implementation of the
rating and revaluation of property will be carried out by the Lands Depart-
ment, where an experienced Chief Valuation Officer will be appointed and
funded under the project (paras. 6.07-6.10).
2.   The Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC)
6.05     The SSHFC is headed by a Managing Director (an accountant by train-
ing), who reports to a board, of which the Minister of Finance or his nominee
is the chairman. The SSHFC falls under the administrative jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Finance and Trade. There are presently two departments in the
Corporation: the Social Security Department and the Housing Department. Both
are headed by a director, to whom a number of divisional heads report.
Responsibility for executing the land development and institutional strength-
ening components rests entirely with the Housing Department, whose present
director has been closely associated with the project since its conception,
having previously been in charge of the Urban Desk in the MEPID. Beneficiary
selection and plot allocation will be done by a technical committee, which
will include the Managing Director, Housing Department DirectDr and Accountant
of the SSHFC, the Project Director and at least one representative of the
MLGL. Loan administration and repayments will be handled by the credit and
accounting sections respectively. Provision has been made under the project
for mechanization to maximize repayment collection and accounting and
financial control.
6.06     While relatively new, SSHFC is expected to efficiently implement its
sub-components, due to the availability of fully qualified technicians serving
in senior management positions. In the few instances where there are techni-
cal weaknesses (e.g., engineering and architecture), funding has been provided
for technical assistance and training of a number of sub-professional staff
(Annexes 4-1 and 4-2). In addition, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that consultations be held by Government with the Association prior to any
change in the Director of Housing during project execution.
C. Implementation Schedule
6.07     Although for planning and contingency purposes a four and a half year
(mid-1984 through 1988) implementation period is used, it is expected that the
project will be completed six months earlier as shown in the implementation
schedule on the following page.



- 30 -
Implementation Schedule
1983/84            1984/85             1985/86             1986/87            1987/8               4988/89
Ju~~-Ju                     2 3 4 t 12 34   1 21 3 4   1  2 3 4 _   2 3 4I2 3   4
July -- - June  ~~                                     -
INFRASiTIUCTURE IMPROVEMENT.
Mapping                        
Emergency Water
Mairn  oads                           . .  ...
Bakau
Roads & Drains       .                              -*
Water                         I     ...
Electricity....
Serrekunda
Roads& Drains                      .....             - t                                       I I   
Water                               .         .   - _ =
Electricity                        .... 
Taxi/Bus Park                     I. _........
Markets
Bakau                              ....
Serrekunda                           .......
Albert (Banjul)
PILOT LAND DEV. SCHEME
Oft-SiteI
Roads & Drains
Water                               ........
Electricity
Ohr-Site                                        -    t
TRoAIds & Drains                    ...
Water                               ...._...
Electricity....
Refuse/Landscaping
Kanifing Community Center....
TRAINING &                         l
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                           I
Municipal Development                       -           I        -                                                                 i
Other Urban Institutions                                                                               -   - |   |
Project Coordination Unit              -   -          -        -    -              -          -        -   -          -   -
__   z   t   I   x      -  --t -    - I                                   -           t                  
........ Design
-Tender Evaluotion/Award
Implemental-ion                                                                                                     World Bank-25034
t-ebruary 6. 1984



- 31 -
6.08     Procurement of some office equipment and supplies financed under PPF
has already commenced. Consultants' services and additional equipment and
vehicles, also to be funded under PPF and totaling US$1.0 million, are being
procured prior to Credit effectiveness. Work on preparation of final design,
engineering and contract documents (2% of total project costs) has commenced.
An early start will be made on the reconstruction of Pipeline and Serrekunda
Roads (by now) and on emergency works on two boreholes, together with the
procurement of critical spares by GUC. Thereafter, construction will be
phased to complete first the provision Df infrastructure (roads, drains,
water, streetlighting) in the pilot land development scheme at Kanifing East,
then the remaining infrastructure extension program in Bakau and Serrekunda.
The provision of loans to beneficiaries allocated plots in the pilot land
development scheme will follDw completion of major off-site infrastructure,
but will commence prior to final finishes to drains and provisiDn of wearing
and sealing courses to roads in order to allow settling of earthworks.
6.09     Building works for community facilities and rehabilitation, improve-
ments and extensions to the three markets at Bakau, Serrekunda and Banjul
(Albert Market), together with construction of a new taxi/bus park in Serre-
kunda, will proceed in parallel with the civil works. Training and technical
assistance components will be implemented largely within the first three years
of project start-up, though a number of these elements will extend to as far
as the fourth year. The rating and revaluation exercise will be completed
within 24 months of inception and new revaluation rolls will be installed
January 1, 1986.
6.10     Completion of the land development component, including the servicing
of the plots, is estimated by mid-1986. Implementation will be phased on a
section by section basis. Sales of plots will take about 24 months from
commencement for completion. The single community center will be constructed
during the third year of implementation.
D. Procurement
6.11     The table on the following page sets out the procurement arrangements
to be followed under the project. Goods and civil works procured under the
project will be under contracts awarded in accordance with IDA procedures, on
the basis of international competitive bidding or local competitive bidding,
except where otherwise agreed with the Association. In the evaluation of
bids, eligible domestic manufacturers of goods will be given a preference
margin of 15%, or the applicable customs duties only, whichever is the lower,
while eligible domestic contractors will be given a 7 1/2% preference margin.
Contracts for procurement of technical assistance services and training
fellowships will be awarded on the basis of government procedures, acceptable
to the Association and agreed at negotiations. All bidding packages for
ICB or LCB contracts over US$200,000 will be subject to the Association's
prior review of procurement documentation. The balance of contracts will be
subject to ex-post reviews by the Association after contract award.



PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Principal                     Procurement Method                        Total
Number of  Agency/Dept.                        Force       Local                  Value of
Project Category/Element        Packages    Responsible    ICB    LCB         Account    Shopping    Other         Contracts
Vehicles          )             Sundry        Sundry          0.3                           0.6                      0.9
Office equipment )                                           (0.3)                         (0.6)                    (0.9)
Civil Works and Buildings
-  Roads, drainage, public         2          PWD             3.8    0.1                                             3.9
buildings                                              (3.3)  (0.1)                                            (3.4)
-  Water supply                    1          GUC                               0.3                    0.8 a/        1.1
(0.3)                 (0.6)         (0.9)
-  Markets, community center,    2           MLGL                    1.1 b/                                          1.1
taxi park, etc.                                                (0.9)                                          (0.9)
-  Electrical equipment, etc.    1            CUC/PWD         0.7 c/                                                 0.7
(0.7)                                                  (0.7)
Materials for housing credits    -            SSHFC                                                    1.5 d/        1.5
(1.3)         (1.3)
Technical assistance            Sundry        Sundry                                                   2.4 e/        2.4
(2.4)         (2.4)
Training                        Sundry        Sundry                                                   0.9 e/        0.9
(0.9)         (0.9)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                           4.7    1.2        0.3         0.6        5.6           12.4
(4.3)  (1.0)      (0.3)      (0.6)      (5.2)          (11.5)
a/  Rehabilitation of water works, including drilling of two boreholes to be done by negotiated contract with one of
two firms presently in The Gambia.
b/  Markets and community center, valuation, fencing and taxi park.
c/  Electrical, cables, fittings, spares and auxiliary equipment.
d/  Price quotations to be received from local suppliers and a few suppliers designated by SSHFC, based on lowest
quotations.
d/  To be procured individually or through reputable firms/agencies on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
e/  Differences in totals due to rounding.  Parentheses indicate amounts (rounded) to be financed by IDA.



- 33 -
E. Disbursement
6.12      The table on this page sets out the agreed disbursement percentages
for the various project categories. Disbursements will be made against full
documentation, except for (a) locally procured office equipment under orders
of less than D 1,000 each; (b) force account civil works; and (c) housing
credits. Disbursements for these items will be made against certified
statements of expenditure; relevant supporting documentation will be retained
in the respective executing agencies and made available on request for review
by visiting IDA missions. At Credit effectiveness the PPF will be refinanced
from proceeds of the Credit.
Disbursement Categories of IDA Credit
Amounts     a/              Disbursements as a
Itam                   Dalasi        US$                % of Expenditure
Trsining                        2,213         886         100 of total
Technical Assistance
and Consultancy Services      5,756        2,302         100 of total
Bquipwnt (including vehicles)    2,250        9C0          100 of foreign and 90 of local
Housing Credits                 3,420        1,368         90 of amounts disbursed by SSHFC
Civil Works                    15,061        6,044         85 of total
TOTAL                     25,700       11,5C0
a/ Including ccntingencies.
The quarterly disbursement schedule for the IDA credit is shown in Annex 6.
6.13      Special Account:  Because of the severe economic stringencies
currently facing The Gambia, a Special Account in US dollars will be set up in
the Central Bank of The Gambia, as a condition of Credit effectiveness, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. US$250,000, represent-
ing expenditure for about three months, will be disbursed by IDA into the
account. Subsequent replenishments from the Association will be made for
incurred expenditures against fully documented applications. At negotiations
the mechanics and details of the operations of these accounts were agreed upon
with Government.
F. Accounting and External Auditing
6.14      The Auditor General is responsible for the auditing of all Government
ministries, corporations and agencies in The Gambia. Auditing of such
accounts is statutorily required at the conclusion of each fiscal year. In
general, audited accounts for the Government service have been some years in
arrears. The situation is even worse for municipalities. The BCC has not
produced an audited financial statement since 1971/72, while KUDC's last



- 34 -
audited statement was submitted in 1973/74. Through the Project Preparation
Facility, funds have been provided for the updating of financial records for
both councils since project appraisal.  Assistance has been provided by the
Auditor-General's office and a decision will be made subsequently on missing
records, of which there appears to be a large volume. During project execu-
tion, procedur(es and systems will be reviewed and modifications made and
documented for subsequent implementation by both councils. Agreement was
obtained during negotiations for the appointment of a commercial auditor
acceptable to 'IDA for both councils, and for audited reports to be prepared
within three months of the closing of each fiscal year. Audited financial
statements will include income statements and balance sheets, as well as flow
of funds and analysis of arrears statements. The accounting system in both
councils wil:L be changed from a simple cash basis to an accrual basis,
permitting more effective accounting and application of consistently sound and
internationally accepted accounting principles.
6.15     Accounting and auditing in the SSHFC will be done along acceptable
commercial lines.  Auditing will be carried out by a commercial auditor
acceptable to IDA. The auditor's report, to be produced within six months
after each fiscal year-end, will express an opinion as to SSHFC's financial
condition, as well as the extent to which it has followed the criteria agreed
upon for the p:Lot allocation under the land development scheme and for dis-
bursements of construction loans. It will specifically state whether such
disbursement claims are supported by adequate documentation.  It will also
vouch for the eligibility of expenditures submitted for financing under state-
ments of expenditure and of the adequacy of the institution's internal
controls and general financial and operating procedures to be reviewed during
project execution (para. 3.04).
6.16     Responsibility for project accounting in general will rest with the
accountant in the PCU, who will ensure adequate recording, documentation and
settlement of all project-related transactions. Project accounts will be
audited annually by an auditor acceptable to IDA. Audited reports, with sup-
porting management reports as required, will be submitted to the Association
within six months of each fiscal year-end.
G. Maintenance and Operations
6.17     Because of the poor record of the urban councils in performing
maintenance, the Central Government has assumed financial and implementation
responsibility for the provision of street maintenance, drainage and cleansing
services. A major project objective will be to reverse this trend and
strengthen the financial and technical capacity of the councils. At present
the minimum of such services performed by the councils include maintenance of
standpipes and wells, street lighting, and unpaved roads (only in the case of
KUDC). The councils do not have the financial or technical resources to
undertake additional functions.
6.18     Following a review of the responsibility, functions, and capabilities
of the urban councils (para. 3.04), appropriate budget and accounting proce-
dures will be established in each urban council so that adequate financial
provisions are made for maintenance services. Until the property revaluation



- 35 -
is completed and revenue collection procedures are improved, it is unlikely
that the financial situation of the councils will improve to a point to permit
them to finance all their activities from internally generated resources.
Hence, responsibility for provisions of major maintenance services will
continue to rest largely with the Central Government for the next three to
four years. Starting from FY85, the councils will prepare annual work
programs and budgets, which will be sent to the Bank for information two
months before the start of each fiscal year during the period of project
implementation. This process will link the provision of municipal services to
improvements in the financial and technical capacity of the councils and
permit an orderly and staged transfer of maintenance responsibilities to the
councils. Financial responsibility for the provision of maintenance services
by the councils does not necessarily imply implementation responsibility and,
pending the review by the municipal engineer, can include contracting the
services to Government departments (e.g., PWD for maintenance of roads and
markets), to private contractors or having the work done by force account.
H. Supervision
6.19     It is estimated that some 80 staff-weeks of Bank supervision will be
required during the implementation life of the project. On account of the
novelty of this initial operation and the unfamiliarity of Government in this
area, at least 60% of total staff time will be concentrated in the first two
and a half years of implementation. Bank staff required on supervision
missions must initially comprise an architect/planner, a municipal engineer,
and a municipal/housing finance specialist, at least one of which should have
experience in institutions and training development. After the third year,
the architect/planner and engineer may interchange on alternate missions, as
appropriate.
6.20     Supervision efforts will be supplemented by overall coordination by
the PCU and ICC. The PWD will be responsible for supervising implementation
of public works.
I. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
6.21     The PCU will be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of the
project as a whole. The Deputy Director will be responsible for monitoring
project execution through a number of operational and financial indicators
agreed upon at project appraisal (Project Files). Monthly reports on these
key indicators will be prepared and submitted for quarterly reporting by the
PCU to the Bank and relevant Government agencies. Funds have been included
for a general review halfway through project execution in the form of a
seminar to be executed by all technical assistance staff and coordinated by
the PCU. The seminar shall be used as a form of stock-taking and opportunity
for corrective actions as necessary (para. 4.04). During a proposed project
launch seminar, the nature and importance of project monitoring targets will
be reviewed.



- 36 -
VII. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Justification and Project Benefits
7.01     The proposed project is expected to make an important contribution
to attaining The Gambia's macroeconomic development objectives. The present
pattern of uncontrolled urbanization is both costly and inefficient to the
economy. The Gambia's longer term economic prospects preclude major public
sector investments in shelter and services in urban areas. Nevertheless, the
pull of urban job opportunities and high natural growth rates will continue to
fuel mounting pressures for these services well into the future. Government,
which previously had no coherent urban policy, is obliged to act before the
negative consequences of rapid urban sprawl become a drag on the economy.
7.02     The project will introduce policies and strengthen institutions
which will permit the Greater Banjul area to be a more efficient engine of
domestic based output, employment, and productivity. In this capacity, the
capital can better provide support to agricultural and industrial development,
thus enhancing the foreign exchange earning potential of urban based activi-
ties, which are essential to The Gambia's overall economic growth. The mix of
components, which weighs heavily towards technical assistance (18%) and train-
ing (7%) reflects the need to establish a sound institutional capacity to
plan, design and implement as an essential condition to efficient investment
in infrastructure over the longer term. At the same time, the project will
prDvide a valuable opportunity to demonstrate the feasibility and replicabil-
ity of low-cost, affordable infrastructure improvements and shelter options.
7.03     By the close of the project period (1988), investments in infra-
structure will directly and indirectly improve the living conditions of about
13,700 households or some 80,000 people, the bulk of the population of Greater
Banjul. This will be achieved through the provision of improved access to
roads, a potable water supply, electricity, and community facilities. About
700 households will be able to construct new houses with construction loans
included under the project, providing shelter for an additional 4,200 residents
in the initial round of construction on the plots. This amounts to approxi-
mately 25% of the housing demand of the project population (between the
20th-80th income percentiles) between 1985-1988 inclusive, and 15% of total
plot demand. This assumes a continuing, predominantly private sector role in
the housing market over the longer term. Construction by plot allottees of
single rooms for rent, which is common practice in The Gambia, will result in
shelter for an additional 11,000 residents by 1997.
7.04     An important indirect benefit will be improvements to the health
status of residents in the infrastructure improvements zone where many identi-
fied illnesses, particularly among the 0-5 age group, have been traced to
deteriorating environmental sanitation caused by poor drainage and polluted
wells. Additional indirect benefits will also arise out of the generation of
unskilled construction employment for improvements to shelter in the infra-
structure improvements zone and for new house construction. An emphasis on
the use of local construction materials will be expected to generate important
foreign exchange savings, since the bulk of construction materials is now



- 37 -
imported. Finally, improvements to the immediate area around the Albert
Market and the Serrekunda and Bakau markets will alleviate traffic congestion,
thereby reducing transport costs in Central Banjul and in the Serrekunda zone,
as well as conserving foreign exchange.
7.05     Technical assistance for the planning and management of urban growth
at the national level and for the extension and maintenance of essential
services and their maintenance at the local level can be expected to ulti-
mately affect all city residents. Planned improvements in Greater Banjul's
capacity to improve yields from local taxes through a revaluation of property
and better cost recovery will facilitate the maintenance of investments and
their future extension. The training components at both the national and
local levels will contribute to Government's capacity to design and implement
long range programs for the management of urban growth, as an integral part of
the investment planning process.
B. Economic Evaluation
7.06     Internal economic rates of return (ERR) were calculated separately
for the infrastructure improvements extensions and for land development sub-
components. An aggregate rate of return was then calculated. This aggregate
rate of return took into account the combined costs and benefits of the above
project sub-components, and assignable portions of technical assistance,
training and project management, representing about 85% of total project costs
net of price contingencies. The remaining items amounting to 15% of project
cost are for the institutional strengthening of the MLGL, including the muni-
cipalities and for the rating and revaluation of property work, for which a
rate of return could not be calculated. These items are unrelated to the
realization of benefits from the other project components for which the rate
of return was calculated, and do not affect the estimation of benefits. Cost
streams for the infrastructure improvements extensions sub-component included
the following, with details provided in the Project File:
(a) all on-site development costs including site works, detailed design,
supervision, and physical contingencies but excluding the markets and
taxi park;
(b) annual maintenance costs, estimated at 2% of total capital cost,
through FY88 and 3% thereafter, based on estimates provided by the
Public Works Department;
(c) basic equipment to be purchased for the Ministry for Local Government
and Lands;
(d) an allocable share of technical assistance to the Ministry for Local
Government and Lands;
(e) an allocable share of project management and coordination costs;
(f) land for the site, the net residential portion used representing 62%
of the total area of 34 ha;



- 38 -
(g)  the estimated costs of labor for house construction and improvements;
and
(h) the estimated cost of second round construction of rental units.
7.07     As in other IDA projects in The Gambia, labor and foreign exchange
were not shadDw priced despite the fact that there is recognized under-
utilization of labor and possible over-valuation of the dalasi.
7.08     The valuation of benefits in the infrastructure improvements zone
was derived fron an estimate of expected increases in the rental values
brought about by improvements to the area.  Estimated rental values in the
area were based on:
(a) a survey dated July 1982 carried out in zones with similar location
and service levels;
(b)  published rents under the 1981 Rent Control Act; and
(c)  spot checks made during appraisal.
For the land development zone, benefits were also estimated as the likely
rental values of new housing created. Because there are relatively few built
units of the -type which will be constructed under the project, rental levels
were establishedl using the posted rent control legislation as a guideline,
together with detailed discussions with rent control officials. Despite
efforts to be as precise as possible, the data on rents are inadequate and
somewhat unreliable. The resultant figures, therefore, represent informed
'guesstimates" of the 'with project' situation in both cases.  Benefits and
costs were estimated for a period of 30 years, using an estimated opportunity
cost of capitEal of 12%.
7.09     The following estimates of rental values were used in calculating
the benefits:
Imputed And Actual Rental Values
(Dalasis per core unit per month)
Without Project      With Project a/
(actuals)
Infrastructure Improvements/
Extensions Sub-Component
TBakau and Serrekunda Areas)
2 rooms/parlor                                80                  96
1 room/parlor                                40                   52
1 room                                        30                  41
Land Development; Sub-Component
(Areas Bordering on Kanifing East)
3 rooms/parlor                                                   158
2 rooms/parlor                                                   103
1 room/parlor                                                     58
a,/ Rents are indicative of types of rental units (see Project File).



- 39 -
C. Rate of Return Calculations
7.10     Using the above costs and benefits streams, the internal economic
rate of return for the infrastructure improvements zone is estimated at 39%
and for the land development areas is estimated at 14%. The small number of
plots together with the delayed benefits of the land development sub-component
account for the large difference between the two estimated ERRs. The combined
rate of return is estimated at 31%. The following table shows that the via-
bility of the project will not be significantly undermined if benefits were
reduced by 30% or if costs were to go up by 30% separately. In the highly
unlikely event that costs will increase by 30% and benefits will decrease by
30% simultaneously, the combined ERR will fall to 16%, still above the average
opportunity cost of capital in the country.
7.11     Annex 7 shows the sensitivity analysis of the ERR's of the sub-
components (land development and infrastructure improvements/extensions). An
increase in costs of 30% will cause a fall in the ERR of the infrastructure
improvements/extensions sub-component to 31%, while a 30% decrease in benefits
will reduce the rate of return to 29%. An increase in costs of 30% or a
decrease in benefits of 30% reduces the ERR for the land development sub-
component to 11% and 9% respectively.
7.12     This analysis underscores the likely positive impact of this type of
project on The Gambia's urban areas and probably underestimates the ultimate
benefits. Given the existing rent control legislation, its unenforceability,
and the observed pattern of rents in Banjul, it is not expected that benefits
will go down under any scenario. Nevertheless, for the purposes of the eco-
nomic analysis, estimated rent changes have been kept within rent control
guidelines. Finally, the costs of second-round construction which assume a
predominant use of permanent materials (concrete blocks) are also somewhat on
the high side.
Sensitivity Analysis of ERR for
Infrastructure Improvements/Extensions and
Land Development Sub-Components Combined
Estimated Net Economic
Scenario                           Rate of Return (Combined)
Base case a/                                               31%
Annual costs increase by 30% b/                            24%
Annual costs increase by 30%, annual
benefits decrease by 30%                                 16%
Annual benefits decrease by 30% c/                         22%
Annual benefits increase by 20% d/                         36%
a/  Benefits based on increase of 10% in rental value over existing levels.
b/  Benefits remaining constant.
c/ Costs remaining constant.
d/ Rental values increasing by 12% over existing levels.



- 40 -
D. Distribution of Benefits and Poverty Impact
7.13     The near absence of any reliable data on incomes and expenditure
patterns makes ELn estimate of the project's urban poverty impact extremely
difficult. The relative urban poverty threshold was calculated according to
Bank guidelines, taking one-third of the average national per capita income
adjusted for urban/rural differences. In 1979 Banjul's per capita yearly
income in urban areas was estimated at US$520Q Based on this figure, the
reiative urbanr poverty threshold is about US$90 per household per month.
Household incomes and distribution in Banjul were derived from the findings of
a Household Budget Survey of 1969 extrapolated to 1979. The arithmetical mean
of household income was estimated at US$151 per month, 1.7 times the relative
poverty line, while the median is US$94. A Lorenz curve analysis shows that
56% of all incon,e accrues to only 20% of the population, underscoring the
belief that income disparities are considerable in Greater Banjul.
7.14     Extreme unreliability surrounding the income data and the definition
of a statistical household in an African environment, where a household fre-
quently consists of several sub-groups and extended family arrangements, make
it difficult to accurately locate the poverty line within the quintile
groups.  However, it seems highly probable that about 35-40% of the project
population in the infrastructure improvements zone falls below the poverty
threshold. About 20% of land development beneficiaries are below the
poverty threshold, although it is expected that the subsequent rounds of
construction which are inevitable in the Banjul context will reach those below
the poverty line. Densification on plots in the Kombo-St. Mary peninsula is
made up overwhelmingly of one room rental units which reach as far down as the
10th percentile on the income distribution curve. For the purposes of the
economic analysis, a total of some 4,600 single rooms has been projected for
second round construction, which will provide additional shelter for some
11,040 people. This is a conservative estimate, since it leaves considerable
additional space on the larger plots for construction.
E. Project Risks
7.15     The launching of an initial operation to plan for and manage urban
development inevitably involves risks. This is especially so in smaller
countries such as The Gambia where experience is limited and resources are
very scarce. However, these risks are considered worth taking in view of
Banjul's key role as The Gambia's only center of commerce and trade and as a
su -ooprt for agricultural development.  The land development and infrastructure
improvement sub-components have been deliberately tailored to a relatively
-mall size, the former in terms of numbers of plots and the latter in terms of
tie nalure of civil works.
7-16     The major risk associated with this pro`ect revolves around the
coordinalation and implementation arrangements.  In an effort to develop the
institutional capacity of existing departments, a separate project unit was
not created (para. 6.02). Instead an existing section in the Ministry of
Economic Planning and Industrial Development will be upgraded into a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU).  Rather, implementation is the responsibility of
normal executing agencies.  The Director of the PCU has only a coordinating



- 41 -
function. Thus there is a risk of loss of some efficiency in the execution of
physical works to start with. However, in light of the institutional objec-
tives of the project, these risks are worth taking. To minimize these risks,
the PCU Director was selected early and participated in negotiations. The
project also provides a very comprehensive program of training and technical
assistance to further minimize risks.
7.17     The project also accords a high priority role to the SSHFC which,
while rather new, will be expected to introduce low cost and affordable
shelter, as well as measures for substantial recovery of land development
costs through plot sales. This has not previously been the case in
The Gambia. The prior review of designs, the heavy emphasis on institutional
development, the fact that the management of the SSHFC is relatively strong,
has the support of Government, and is committed to financial profitability,
minimize these risks.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01     Prior to negotiations the following actions were taken:
(a)  appointment of two consultants to update financial records of BCC and
KUDC (para. 3.04); and
(b)  completion of all land acquisition, transfer, and preparation
formalities for project site (para. 3.16).
During Negotiations
8.02     The following were reviewed and agreed:
(a)  allocation and leasing procedures for land development sub-component
finalized (para 3.16); and
(b)  terms of reference for all training, technical assistance and studies
(paras. 4.06 and 4.10).
8.03     The following assurances were sought and obtained:
(a)  a technical sub-committee, to include senior representation from the
Establishment Officer, to be identified from the Project Inter-Agency
Coordinating Committee, to ensure adequate management and monitoring
of project training and technical assistance (para. 4.06);
(b)  valuation and municipal financial consultants and PWD engineer will
be appointed within three months of Credit effectiveness
(para. 4.08);



- 42 -
(c)  competent counterpart staff will be provided to complement and
understudy the technical assistance team of the Management Develop-
ment Institute (para. 4.09);
(d)  studies will be diligently undertaken (para. 4.10);
(e)  funds exceeding D 500,000 in any one year will not be transferred
from SSHFC's Social Security Fund to the Housing Fund without prior
consultation with IDA and periodic actuarial reviews of the SSHFC's
Social Security Fund will be made (paras. 5.02 and 5.03 respectively);
(f)  government will consult with the Association prior to undertaking any
new housing scheme costing more than D 5 million (para. 5.05);
(g)  commitment to suitable pricing, including periodic reviews of rates
and tariffs, cost recovery and intensification of arrears collection
(paras. 5.08 and 5.16);
(h)  consultations will be held with IDA prior to any changes in the
Director of Housing of the SSHFC (para. 6.06);
(i)  agreement with procurement and disbursement procedures (paras. 6.11
through 6.13); and
(j)  creation of separate project accounts and acceptance of auditing,
accounting and reporting provisions (paras. 6.14-6.16).
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
8.04     The conditions of Credit effectiveness are:
(a)  completion of detailed engineering for major physical works,
including preparation of contract documents (para. 2.05);
(b)  signature by SSHFC of subsidiary credit agreement with Government
(para. 3.06);
(c)  appointment of remaining PCU staff (para. 6.02); and
(d)  establishment of a Special Account in the Central Bank (para. 6.13).
8.05     With the above actions, agreements and assurances, the proposed
project will be suitable for an IDA credit of US$11.5 million for 50 years,
including a grace period of 10 years.
WAPUR
February 1984



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
URBAN/MUNICIPAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Detailed Cost Table
(DALASI '000)
Base Costs                    Phu,
--------------------------------------------- Cont. For.
83/34   84/B 5   85/86  86/87  87/88  Total   Rzte  Exch,
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
1. BANJUL CITY COUNCIL
TRAINING                                                33,9    85.3    40.8   19.1         -   179.1     0      1
TECH. ASSISTANCE                                        198.3   204.7   108,8       -       -   511.9      0   O.8
EOUIPMENT                                               111.4    18.3    18.3   18.3   18.3   184.5   0.1  0.37
CIVIL WORKS                                                 -       -        -      -       -       -   0.1      0
Sub-Total BANJUL CITY COUNCIL                              343.7   308.4   167.9   37.4   18.3   875.6
2. KANIFING URBAN DIST.COUNCIL
TRAINING                                                30.7    64.7    55.1        -      -   150.5      0      1
TECH. ASSISTANCE                                       192.0   192.0         -      -      -   3S3.9      0   0.8
EQUIPMENT                                               80.5    28.9    21.2   18.3   18.3   167.2   0.1   0.4
CIVIL WORKS                                                 -       -        -      -      -        -   0.1      0
Sub-Total KANIFING URBAN DIST.COUNCIL                     303.2   285.5    76.3   18.3   18.3   701.6
3. LOC.GVMENT.INSPECTORATE
TRAINING                                                25.4    41.3    41.3   41.3   41.3   190.8        0  0.25
TECH. ASSISTANCE                                        96.0    75.9   287.9   96.0         -   555.8     0   0.8
EQUIPMENT                                               60.8    11.5    11.5   11.5   11.5   106.8   0.1   0.4
CIVIL WORKS                                                 -       -        -      -       -       -   0.1      0
Sub-Total LOC.GVMENT.INSPECTORATE                          182.2   128.8   340.8  148.8   52.9   853.4
__ --   -- - -   -- - -   -----   -- -- __ -__ -__ -
Sub-Total MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT                               829.1   722.6   585.0  204.5   89.4 2,430.6
B. MLGL
1. DEPT. OF LANDS ( EXCLUDING RATING VAL.
TRAINING                                                15.4    10.6    63.6   10.6   10.6   110.8        0  0.52
TECH. ASSISTANCE                                        96.0    25.6    25.6   25.6   25.6   198.3        0   0.8
EQUIPMENT                                               38.4    57,8    49.4   11.3   11.3   168.1   0.1  0.62
CIVIL WORKS                                                -        -       -       -      -        -   0.1  0.75
Sub-Total DEPT. OF LANDS ( EXCLUDING RATING VAL. )         149.7    94.0   13B.6   47.4   47.4   477.2
2. DEPT. OF HOUSING - BLDG.CONTROL SVS.
TRAINING                                                13.8    47.7    38.2   19.1   19.1   137.8        0  0.65
TECH. ASSISTANCE                                        15.6   165I.6    12.8   12.8   12.8   21S.5       0   0.8
EQUIPMENT                                               73.6    18.3    18.3   18.3   18.3   146.7   0.1  0.44
CIVIL WORKS                                                -        -       -       -      -        -   0.1     0
Sub-Total DEPT. OF HOUSING - ILDG.CONTROL SVS.            102.9   231.6    69.2   50.2   50.2   504-0



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
3. DEPT. OF SURVEYS
TPAIOINU                                                 10.6    14.8    14.9   14.8   14.8    70.0         0  0.54
TMC. ASSISTAE   a/                                       13.B    13,8    13.8   13.8   13.8    68.9         0      0
EQUIPMENT                                               153.1    47.2    36.6   36.6   36.6   310.0   0.1  0.82
CIVIL WORKS                                                 -        -        -      -       -        -   0.1      0
Sub-Total DEPT. OF SURVEYS                                 177.5    75,8    65.2   65.2   65.2   448.8
4. DEPT.OF COMMUNITY DEV,
TRAINING                                                 17.0    44.5    19.1        -       -    80.6      0  0.79
TECH. ASSISTANCE                                            -        -    21.2       -       -    21.2      0   0.6
EQUIPMENT                                                 8.2    72.3    14.1   12.5   11.B   118.8   0.1  0,52
CIVIL WORKS                                                 -                 -      -       -       -   0.1       0
Sub-Total DEPT.DF COMMUNITY DEV.                            25.1   116.8    54.3   12.5   11.8   220.6
5. DEPT. OF PHYSICAL PLANNING
TRAINING                                                 26.5    45.6    80.6   66.8   79.5   298.9         0  0.34
TECH. ASSISITANCE  b/                                   130.5    12.8    12.8   12.8   12.8   181.7         0   0.8
EQUIPMENr                                                77.6    18.3    18.3   18.3   21.2   153.7   0.1  0.43
CIVIL WORKS                                                 -        -        -      -       -       -   0.1       0
Sub-Total DEPT, OF PHYSICAL PLANNING                       234.6    76.7   111.6   97.9  113.5   634.3
Sub-Total MLGL                                                689.-   444.8   439.0  273.2  288,0 2,134.9
C. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
1. RATING AND REVAL. OF GREATER BANJUL
TRAINING                                                  8.0     8.0      5.3   53.0   53.0   127.2        0  0.75
TECH. ASSISTANCE                                         96.0   192.0   192.0        -       -   479.9      0   0.8
EQUIPMENT                                                53.0     3.2      3.2    3.2    3.2    65.7   0.1  0.66
CIVIL WORKS                                              31.8    63.6        -       -      -    95.4   0.1  0.65
Sub-Total RATING AND REVAL. OF GREATER BANJUL              188.7   266.7   200.4   56.2   56.2   768.2
Suib-Total RESOURCE MOBILIZATION                              188.7   266.7   200.4   56.2   56.2   768.2
D. SSHFC
TRAINING                                                    25.4    57.2    54.1   38.2        -   174,9       0     1
TECH, ASSISTANCE                                            56.4    37.8    37.8   56.4   56.4   254.7         0   0.5
EQUIPMENT                                                   70.0    12.7    19.3   19.0   19.0   140.1   0.1  0.42
CIVIL WORKS                                                    -        -       -       -       -       - 0.1        0
Sub-Total SSHFC                                               151.8   107.7   106.2  113.6   75.4  569.7
E. MNGMENT. DEV. INSTITUTE
TECH. ASSISTANCE                                          319.9   319.9         -       -      -   639.8       0   0.8
Total  SELINE COSTS                                         2,179.4 1,936.8 1.410.6  647.4  509.1 6,683.3
Ph.sical Contingencies                                      75.8    35.2    21.0   16.7   16.9   165.7
Price Contirigencies                                        63.5   186.5   242.9  161.2  166.9   821.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         2,318.7 2,158.5 1,674.6  825.3  692.9 7,670.0
Foreign Exchange                                         1,576.B 1,560.7 1,145.4  496.0  356.2 5,135.1
Source: Mission calculations based on Government proposals.
a/ Not including mapping costs, covered under infrastructure and improvement components.
b/ Includes D118,000 base for aerial survey in 1983/84.
8/25/83



_ 45 _
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LAND DEVELOPMENT SUB-COMPONENT
Detailed Cost Table
(DALASI '000)
Base Costs                     Phv.
--------------------------------------------- Carnt. For.
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87  87/88  Total   Rate  Exch.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. ON - SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
ROADS                                       38.6   386,4   154,5   154.5   38.6   772,7   0.1  0.68
SW DRAINAGE                                 12,4   148.8    74.4    12,4         -   248,0   0,1   0,5
WATER SUPPLY                                  S,1    97.3    48-7       8.1      -   162,2   0,1  0.74
ELECTRICITY / STREET LIGHTING                   -    35,3   300.0    17.6        -   353,0   0.1  0.76
FENCING                                         -       -   217.5    11.4        -   229,0   0,1   0.3
REFUSE AND LANDSCAPING                          -       -    36.3       1.9      -    38,2   0.1   0.2
COMPENSATION                                19.1        -        -       -       -    19.1      0      0
=-  -    -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   - - - - --- -
Sub-Total ON - SITE INFRASTRUCTURE             78.2   667.8   831.4   206,1   38.6  s8292.1
B, OFF - SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
ROADS / SW DRAINAGE                         21.7   217.3    86,9    86.9  21,7   434.6   0.1  0.68
WATER SUPPLY                                 4.5    54.1    27.0       4.5       -    90.1   0.1   0,5
ELECTRICITY / STREET LIGHTING                  -      3.1    26.1      1.5       -    30,7   0.1  0.76
Sub-Total OFF - SITE INFRASTRUCTURE            26.2   274.4   140.1    93.0   21.7   555.4
C. BUILDING MATERIALS CREDITS                     -        -   795.0 1)4Q1.0  774.0 3J000.0        0   0,7
D. COMMUNITY FACILITIES                        17.8   266,3    71.0          -      -   355.1   0.1   0.7
E. DESIGN (4%)                                109.3        -        -        -      -   109.3   0.1  0.63
F. SUPERVISION (5%)                             6.1    60.4    52.1    14.9    3.0   136.6         0  0.63
Total BASELINE COSTS                         237.6 1269,0 IY889.6 ls745.0   837,4 5y97B6
Physical Contingencies                     21.2   120.9   104.3    29.9        6.0   282.3
Price Contingencies                         7.3   131,5   338.4   430.8   267.6 1s175.5
_- --     - - - -   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   _-- - -
Total PROJECT COSTS                          266.,  1,521.3 2i332.3 2;205.7 1;1l1.0 70436.4
Foreign Exchane                           158,7 1,004,4 10488.4 1s525.9   775.7 4,953.0.
Source:   Mission  calculations  based  on Government  proposals.
8/25/83



46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCT. IMPROVEMENTS AND EXTENSIONS SUB-COMPONENT
Detailed Cost Table
(DALASI '000)
Base Costs                     Phj.
------------ ---------- ----------    --- -------   Cant.   For,
83/84   84/85   85/86  86,/87  87/88   Total   Rzte  Exch,
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BAKAU
ROADS AND DRAINS                                     25.8   129.9   334.9   25,8         -    516.2   O.i  0.68
VATIER                                                3.2    58.2      3.2       -       -     64.7   0.1  0.74
ELECTRICITY / STREET LIGHTING                         8,4   150.7      8. 4      -       -    167.5   0.1  0.76
STREET NAMING                                         1.1    10.1    10.1        -       -     21,2   0.1   0.8
HARKET                                                5.6   100.2      5.6       -      -    111.3   0.1   0.7
Sub-Total BAKAU                                         44.0   449.0   362.1   25.8         -    880.9
B. SERRAKIJNDA
ROADS AND DRAINS                                   212.0 10272.0 10908.0  636.0  212.0  49240.0   0.1  0,68
WATER                                                14.5   188.8    72.6   14.5        -    290.4   0.1  0.74
ELECTRiCITY / STREET LIGHTIN6                       36.1   360.9   288.7   36.1         -    721.9   0.1  0.76
TAXI PARK RENOV. AND RESITING                       25.5   459.8    25.5         -      -    510.'   0.1   0.7
STREET NAMING                                        2.7    25.2    25.2        -       -     53.0   0.1   0.8
MARKET                                              11.7    81.6   139.9        -       -    233,2   0.1   0.7
Sub-Total SERRAKUNDA                                  302.5 2,388.3 2,460.0  686.6  212.0  6,049.4
C. MAIN ROADS IMPROVEMENT
PIPELINE ROAD                                       37.1   333.9   333.9   37.1         -    742.0   0.1  0.68
D. OTHER
OFF - SITE WATER SUPPLY REHAB                    1,113.0   477.0        -       -       -  1S590.0   0.1  0.74
MAPPING FOR GRATER BANJUL                          265.0        -       -       -       -    265.0      0     1
BANJUL ALBERT MARKET                                21.2   381.6    21.2        -      -    424.0   0.1   0.7
TOTAL DESIGN   (4%)                               327*17        -       -       -      -    387.5   0.1  0.71
TOTAL SUPERVISION  (5%)                             75.9   201.5   158,9   3/.5        -    473.7       D  0.71
Sub-Total OTHER                                     1,862.5 14060.1   180.1   37.5        -  3,140.2
Total DA1SLINE COSTS                              2,246.1 4P231.4 3,336.1   786.9  212.0 10,812.4
Physical Contingencies                            190.5   403.0   317.7    74.9   21.2  1,007.4
Price Continsencies                                68.6   438.4   620.0   209.2   74.0  1,410.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                2,505.2 5.072.7 4,273.8 1,071.1  307.2 13,230.0
====== = ====== ======= =====r== ====== - === ===
Foreign Exchange                               1888.9 3,587.4 2,958.6   734.9  208.9  9,378.7
Source:  Mission  calculations  based  on  Government proposals.
8/251 /83



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COORD. AND MANIGEMENT SUB-COWONENT
Detailed Cost Table
(LUAI '000)
5. Costs                        P1w.
------------------------------------------------ Cont, For.
B3184   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   Total   Rats  Exch.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PROJECT COORDINATION
I. EQUIPMENT
I MOTOR VEHICLE                                           26.5        -        -       -        -     26.5   0.1       1
I LAND CRUISER                                            12.4        -        -       -        -      42.4   0.1      1
OFFICE EOUIPMENT                                          26.5    10.6      5.3      5.3      5.3     53.0   0.1  0.22
GENERAL OPERAT. EXPENSES                                  10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6         53.0     0      0
VEHICLE MAINT. RUNNING EXPENSES                           10.6    21.2    21.2    21.2    21.2        95.4   0.1       0
Sub-Total EOUIPMENT                                         116.6    42.4    37.1    37.1    31.1    270.3
2. TRAINING
PROJECT DIRECTOR                                          10.6        -        -       -        -      10.6     0   0.8
DEPUTY PROJECT DIRECTOR                                      -        -    15.9        -        -      15.9     0   0.8
ACCOUNTANT                                                   -    15.9         -       -        -      15.9     0   0.8
PROJ LAUNCH SEMINAR                                       10.6        -        -       -        -      10.6     0   0.8
Sub-Total TRAINING                                           21.2    15.9    15,9          -       -      53.0
3. TECH. ASSISTANCE AND PROFESIONAL SERVICES
I PROJECT DIRECTOR                                       106.0   212.0   212.0         -        -    530,0      0   0.6
I DEPUTY PROJECT DIRECTOR                                  9.9    13.1    13.1    17.6    17.6        71.3      0     0
O ACCOUNTANT                                               8.7    11.7    11.7    11.7    11.7        55.4      0      0
CONFIDENTIAL SECRETARY                                     4.5      5.9     5.9      5.9      5.9     28.2      0      0
TYPIST                                                     1.8      2.5     2.5      2.5      2.5      11.7     0      0
CLERICAL OFFICER                                           1.8      2.5     2.5      2.5      2.5     11.7      0      0
OFFICE ASSISTANT                                           1.3      1.7      1.7     1.7      1.7       8.3     0      0
DROVER                                                     1.8      2.5     2.5      2.5      2.5     11.7      0      0
SHORT TERM CONSULTANCIES                                     -        -        -    53.0    21.2      74.2      0   0.4
Sub-Total TECH. ASSISTANCE AND PROFESIONAL SERVICES         135.9   251.9   251.9    97.3    65.5    B02.4
Sub-Total PROJECT COORDINATION                                 273.7   310.2   304.9   134.4   102.6  1,125.7
B. MINISTRY OF EC.PLANNING AND INDUSTRY DEV.
1. TRAINING
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH                                   21.2    84.8    95.4         -        -    201.4      0      1
MINISTRY OF INFO. AND TOURISM                             10.6    53.0    68.9    26.5          -    159.0      0      1
Sub-Total TRAINING                                           31.8   137.8   164.3    26.5          -    360.4
2. TECH.ASSISTANCE
PUD ENGINEER                                             106.0   212.0   212.0         -        -    530.0      0  0.75
FUTURE PROJECT PREPARATION                                   -    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    169.6         0  0.51
URBAN DESK                                                   -        -       -   106.0         -    106.0      0  0.75
Sub-Total TECH.ASSISTANCE                                   106.0   254.4   254.4   148.4    42.4    805.6
Sub-Total MINISTRY OF EC.PLANNING AND INDUSTRY DEN.            137,8   392.2   418.7   174.9    42.4  1,166.0
C. LESS TXES ( EQUIPMET                                        -3.6    -2.9    -1.5    -0.5    -4.5    -43.9          0      0
Total NLIE  COSTSra                                                      t                   1 6.         .1
Phasical Contingencies                                       10.6     3.2      2.722.1          2   2 i;:
Price Contingencies                                          10.6     3.2      2.7      2.7       .7    it
10.9    66.5    75.4   123.0    46.4    322.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            396.4  769.1   35.9   347.7   192.6 2,591.6
Foreign Emchau.                                             21.5   104.5        --   - -
2B;.           1 504.5   l6.5    5U.;    41.3 1I582.3
Source:   Mission  calculations  based  on  Government proposals.
8/25/73



-4                           Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 3
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE STANDARDS
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPLEMENTATION/EXTENSION AREAS
Service/Network                             Standard
Roads                     (Al)  Main Access Road (Primary Road)-(Serrekunda Road)
Overall reserve 32m., variable carriageway width
(8.Om. to 13.5m), 50mm. asphalt wearing course
over seal coat on 200mm. laterite base over 100mm
laterite sub-base.
(Al) Main Access Road (Primary Road)-(Pipeline Road)
Reconstruction of 0.5km. washed out during rains.
Carry out repairs to remaining road including
strengthening of edges, patching and regrading
the surface. Provide 2 coat bitumen seal on whole
road. Construct side drains and culverts. Improve
street lighting and strengthen shoulders.
*                        For Roads (A2), (A3) and (A4) to be improved in Serrekunda
and Bakau areas see standards for pilot land development
scheme at Kanifing East.
*                        For surface water drainage, water supply, street lighting/
security lighting in Serrekunda and Bakau upgrading areas
see standards applied to pilot land development scheme at
at Kanifing East.



Annex 3-1
-49-                                Page 2 of 3
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE STANDARDS
SSHFC: PILOT LAND DEVELOPMENT AREA: KANIFINTG EAST
Service/Network                            Infrastructure Standard
Roads                     (Al)  Main Access Road (off-site) 32.m overall reserve,
8m wide carriageway, 50mm, asphalt wearing course
over seal coat, on 200mm laterite base course on 100mm
laterite sub-base.
(A2)  Main Distributor Road (within site) 20m/15m overall
reserve, 5.5m wide carriageway, 2 coat bitumen surfac-
ing (stone chip wearing course over seal coat), on
200m. laterite base course on 100mm laterite sub-
base.
(A3)  Minor Access Road on site 12m reserve, 5.Om
wide carriageway, 150mm. laterite base course,
single lateral slope.
(A4)  Spurs--3.5m. earth roads graded to falls in
8.Om reserve.
Footpaths                 (A5)  3m. wide, graded and compacted gravel.
Stormwater Drainage       (DI)  Main surface water drains through site and outfall
drains to be constructed with concrete base and
masonry walls.
(D2-3)Other drains to be open earth drains (trapezoidal
and open vee) on one side of local roads only,
main culverts either concrete pipe, c.g.i. or
reinforce concrete/masonry.  Drainage designed
for a five-year storm frequency.
Water                           Distribution system designed for eventual in-
dividual plot connections on the basis of
per capita consumption of 100 liters/day.
Initially one standpipe to be provided for
a cluster of 12-20 plots, depending on layout.



Annex 3-1
- 50 -                      Page 3 of 3
Peak factor 2.0 times average.
Fire hydrants: 8 for whole layout (700 plots)
on approx. 35 ha.
Sanitation                      Individual ventilated improved pit-latrines
(V.I.P's) or on-site septic tanks and soakaways
financed through home construction loans.
Refuse Collection               One collection point accessible to refuse vehicle
to be provided for each cluster of plots i.e.,
along secondary (minor access) roads. Points
to be within walking distance of each plot (not
more than 100m).
Electricity Distribution
Street Lighting and
Security Lighting               Overhead electricity distribution system for
ultimate 100% individual plot connection (at
developer's/owner's expense).
Primary and secondary (main distributor) roads
to be provided with street lighting to
traffic standards. Most-fitted lights on
electricity distribution poles every 40-50m.
Minor access roads and spurs provided with
security lights on distribution poles--one light
per cluster/court on every 50m. now maintenance
cost light fittings (e.g., 70 Watt Sox, High-pressure
sodium) lanterns complete with incorporated control
gear and lamps recommended.



- 51 -
Annex 3-2
THE GAMBIA
LAND MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LANM  DEVELOPPENT SUB-COMPOvTENT
BENEFICIARY SELECTION CRITERIA
The following beneficiary selection criteria were agreed with the SSHFC
for this scheme:
Basic Criteria
1.    Applicants will be required to meet certain basic conditions as "sine qua
non" for eligibility:
(i) earn between D 170 and D 700 per month (in 1983 prices appropriately
adjusted for inflation);
(ii) not own property in the Banjul/Kombo-St.Mary area; and
(iii) have been a resident in the Banjul/Kombo-St. Mary area a minimum
of two years.
Those applicants meeting these basic criteria will be subjected to an objec-
tive points scoring system, agreed to during appraisal, which will be give prefe-
rence for those deemed in greatest need while meeting conditions of security.
Details of the system, together with a draft application form, are in the Project
File.
Allocation by Income
2.    At least 50% of the beneficiaries   must be persons earning between D 170
and D 350 per month, of which at least 20% must be between D 170 and D 250, and
not more than 25% between D 600 and D 700. 20% of total beneficiaries must be
from the informal sector.
Savings
3.    A savings scheme may be instituted to assist informal sector beneficiaries
to qualify.
Housing Construction Loans
4.    Housing Construction Loans ranging from D 4,500 through about D 10,000
approximately and averaging about D 8,000 would be provided to beneficiaries
allocated plots, subject to affordability constraints determined at the time of
the interviews.
Resale
5.    Plots cannot be resold before five years, after which time the SSHFC must
have the first right of purchase. Plots should only be resold to persons satis-
fying the same income criteria on which they were first allocated.
Source: Mission agreements with Governments.
1/26/84



THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILS OF PROJECT TRAINING
Total          Total
Duration                                   Location             Costs           Person
Department/Division/Aeny                 of Training aining           raining        of  Training         (D'OOO)a/      Years            Beneficiaries of Training
A. LOCAL TRAINING
Ministr  for Local Government
and Lands
- Physical Planning Dept              2 years            In-house                   Gambia                116           - a/       15 cadets to be trained as physical
per course        sub-professional                                                          planninig assistants in 2 courses
(salaries, honoraria, and equipment
costs)
- Community Development Dept          3 days             seminar                      "                    19          0.3        About 30 community leaders on
objectives and other details of
project
- Surveys Dept                        Io be              short in-house                                    35          1 (est.)  About 4 sessions per year for 5 yrs
determined        workshops
- Housing and Building Control        5 years           on the job                    "                    55           - bi      4 cadets for 5 years (salaries,
Services                                            sub-professional                                                          honoraria and traininig costs)
- L.ands Dept                         6 months          owl Lhe job                                    (   61          3          6 Valuation Assistants
4 x 5 years       sub-professional              "                (                - b/      4 cadets for 5 years
Subtotal                                                                                           286          4.3
Muoicipal Development
- L.ocal Government Inspectorate    3 weeks ea.          Organized course           Gambia                167          5.2         10 technical and clerical level
twice yearly                                                                                staff in each of 9 courses (2/yr)
Subtotal                                                                                           167           5.2
Resource Mobilization                 6 moniths                                       "                    40          3          6 Valuation Assistants
Project Mgt. and Coordination         1 week            Project Launch                "                    10          1 (est.)  About 50 mtajor actors from. project
seminar                                                                  agencies
TOT,AL LOCAL. TRAINING                                                                             503          13.5
X  



B. FOREIGN TRAINING
Ministry for Local Government
and Lands
- Physical Planning Dept             3 x 1 year       Techn Fellowshps      U.K., Kenya,           (               3          1 Senior Physical Planner
Nigeria
1 x 2 years      Techn Fellowshps      Kenya or Nigeria       ( 225           2          2 Physical Planners, 1 Trainee
- Community Development Dept         3 x 1 year       Techn Fellowshps      Kenya or Nigeria       (   73          3          1 Communication Officer, 1 Photo-
graphic and Graphic Asst., 1 Asst.
Communication Dev. Officer
1 x 2 weeks      Techn Attachmnts         Zambia              (               0.1       Directcr's visit to Lusaka Urban
Project
- Surveys Dept                      6 x 6 months      Techn Attachmnts      U.K., Kenya, Nigeria,    45            3         Visits of 6 senior officers for
Zimbabwe                                        brief refresher attachments
- Housing and Building Control      1 x 2 years       Techn Fellowshps      Nigeria, Kenya,        C  102          2          1 Building Materials Technician
Services Dept                                                           Zimbabwe
1 x 1 year       Techn Fellowshps      Nigeria, Kenya,        (               1          1 Draughtsman
Zimbabwe,
1 x 3 months     Techn Attachmnts         Zambia              (               0.25       Familiarization visit of Director
- Lands Dept                         1 x 1 year       Techn Fellowshps          U.K.                   66          1          1 Senior Lands Officer
2 x 3 months     Techn Attachmnts       Kenya, Nigeria        (               0.5        1 Rent Collector, 1 Senior Lands
Inspector
1 x 2 weeks      Techn Attachmnts      Kenya, Nigeria         (               0.1        1 Senior Lands Officer
Subtotal                                                                                        511        16.0
Resource Mobilization               2 x 1 year        Techn Fellowshps      Kenya, Nigeria            119          2.0        2 Valuation Assistants
1 x 2 years      Techn Fellowshps      Kenya, Nigeria                         2.0        1 Valuation Officer
Subtotal                                                                                        119         4.0
Municipal Development
- Local Government Inspectorate    6 x 1/2 year       Techn Attachmnts      Kenya, Nigeria,            54          3          6 Local Government inspectors
Ghana, Zimbabwe
- Banjul City Council               1 x 1 month       Techn Attachmnts      Kenya, Nigeria,        (  200          0.1        1 Valuation Officer
Ghana, Zimbabwe
2 x 9 months     Techn Attachmnts       Kenya, Nigeria,       (               1.5        1 Execution Officer in training,
Ghana, Zimbabwe       (                          1 Assistant Market Clerk
3 x 1 year       Techn Attachmnts      Kenya, Nigeria         (               3          1 Rates Collector, 1 Accounting
Ghana, Zimbabwe       (                          Assistant, 1 Maintenance Supervisor
2 x 2 years      Techn Attachmnts          U.K.               (               4          1 Accountant, Treasurer and Deputy
Town Clerk
- Kanifing Urban District            3 x 1 year       Techn Fellowshps      Nigeria, Ghana            171          3          1 Maintenance Supervisor, 1 Account-
Council                                                                 Kenya                                            ing Assistant, 1 Rate Collector
1 x 2 years      Techn Fellowshps      Nigeria, Ghana                         2          1 Accountant, 1 Treasurer
Kenya
Imonth      Techn Attachmnts      Nigeria, Ghana                        2          1 Local Government Officer, 1        ° z
Kenya                                            Valuation Officer
Subtotal                                                                                        425        18.6                                             cX l



Land Development
- Social Security a Housing           2 x 2 weeks        Attachments            Sundry countries          200           0.1        Managing Director and Director of
Corporation                                                                 in Africa                                          Housing Dept. Familiarization
visits to project sites
3 x 2 years       Techn Fellowshps                                               6
1 x 1 year        Techn Fellowshps                                               1          Architect, Surveyor, Housing Econo-
mist and Architectural Assistant
Subtotal                                                                                            200          7.1
Project Management and                2 x 3 months       Techn Attachmnts         U.S., U.K.               46           0.5        2 brief attachments for PCU
Coordination                                                                                                                     Director and Accountant
1 x 6 months      Techn Attachmnts          U.S., U.K.                           0.5        1 attachment for PCU Deputy
Director
Subtotal                                                                                             46          1.0
Other
- School of Public Health             I x 2 years        Techn Attachmnts         U.S., U.K.               300          2          2 Senior Lecturers to pursue
professional courses
1 x 2 1/2 yrs    Techn Attachmnts          U.S., U.K.                            2.5
- Ministry of Information and         3 x 2 years        Techn Attachmnts         U.S., U.K.              181           6          3 Technical Officers to pursue
Tourism                                                                                                                       professional courses
Subtotal                                                                                            481         10.5
TOTAL FOREIGN TRAINING                                                                            1,782         57.2
GRAND TOTAL TRAINING                                                                              2,285         70.7
a/  Training expenses to be covered under project are:  (a) tuition, (b) books and equipment, (c) adequate clothing allowance as climate
dictates, (d) transportation to and from The Gambia, including one round trip per year back home for courses over 18 months in length.
(e) housing, (f)  maintenance and, (g) any other incidentals at the discretion of the Head of the Department concerned.  All project
funded training must be taken up between June 1984 and June 1988; timing to be agreed upon between Department Heads and the PCU.
b/  Includine price continqeecies of anproximately 14X.
c/ Person year estimates for cadetships not calculated, since most training would be on the job as oppesed to other formal and organized
types.
6ource-:  Mission compilation based on Government proposals.
1/24/84                                                                                                                                                            l



uaN VANAGUM AND} DEVEIt/LOMN'i PE)J.CT
DETAILS OF PROJECT TECHNIC~ASAulSlTAtiEf
Aural Squlo.                     2pprurz. lot -          otal       1 ia.
onreLocl       oumber   3Arp1ntlar                                   subaon        Allocatedil  Los-    -ocrlutln,b        ontor Ollc...,tc
oLolelsn/Oaparc=inr               Žouoyt          )00Y.Ž    Required                  lear(s)       Spent   a!           r.000)          (".000)             0L.100      (1. 0c,             tuu<  oEoe-t,u
MlIstan rvnc Local
(unnenmenl and Lands
Lands lDepar-enr/                     F                        a12 2F 03I'I                                                                                                               gioltŽusniugt               t       ln..,al lu5..u..    at to,,
F.                                                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~08  dO       >
F             I         uandlSpcs     r        19E5,d6              1/2           1o00i noertt iilngstudt .lf land pri.nc.al                                                                 xa-o9and adatoat ad  n
-1981286
tossIng and Bisld(log
Luetrol    iden                      F,l.                    :o bedeeeralnrd         (983184              1,!             13                29                 75          9..         - o      g o bu tl-i--  -98killn  al spoialIui -ons as reg qRed Ifc
-1985/i"'                                                                            (SO2iolsuss  so2
PhthYloal Planning                    i             -        social Phocograpler       (983               3/5             2/r                                                          irsnoda  p(toiogrFpFhc odf  carrae   8anXo
Dep irtment                                   ;exe~~~~~~~~cc  rInsie or elaP. 1
('I.                    Iv be decernlced        19838                2/d(E2                                              189        207           Lndectuklug  nondec technIcal asrigcee7ntt.nsdlras aacequired
t      -        'npping Spociliis    19S3/84                2/3            ]333                 -                 -          -  f/       Prodsoiion ofsop  focL*regter haojul andtiornalustlorn ad orha
Surneya Dapactocot                   I,1            -        to be dereeralned       1983<8i.              /5             13                11                 -           .9          O'naornaklng  f1 oscars atort-tere ass ignFntn  Intlud Ing  sac of
Lotsclty Ileoclopeent                 I                      telce Teobno1ogisn    1985/8b                (/2             10e                2                 -           52          EsiabllshFeint  of a tee deteisraratlon  snita usIng ilodigenous
Pr'mmcc                                                                                                                                                                                saterainl
Sub-olaF                                                                                                  1.1                              Is,                883        1355
M-nIcLp,l- De0lop.o
Ba-nI1  clt LCo  -Il E-                              I        t           o       .1 2                                   200l                                                          Updating of accear financIal " r orda  (.F..
i I     ru,icIaltt8l. nd    1983 BS                _                2110                                                          lnasallingtlnanctsl and t-t -ns  -ollectro  nsvates,
FrainIng E.a F  nort   -Dg981/          1/                                  02                b38         84           il    nanci      alstrainuFin gtnans   ilslf
f      I       b'wegial Adooao er    19858b:.                 >2(1    1      1                                                            osU0swisitlngI  efStcotig le°Uga  naotun  a v;gainseitr  ncgens deisi erftanc
-1985,81
-iSbit f   tba                                                                                               2p-rio t  F    np  ia l-p                                                         ing s    -arre-tdinancI arrde-,    f   munical record  eP/)
Cosn-i SF      y                                                                                                                                               399        4 38
Ocalnng   Pe           S
Loa   ci.  nispecof iacoFe            F        /             .N'nlcsp./ tIn  OtrAdo 1985/dc             11 1/12   5 d                                          38 7   nA?                oit cgInancial dsno earlt    iinn   teIinat ousal eswtallr,cen li
F,- _ 1 b .                       de=I....  tics, p5sI                                                                   I3 1gi   19/  2                  anseet  thouhout 1strs . orgarJengs     erit Ing
F   Lra   986/d-  12,                                                                                                                     Ili1 tndining    snsien  sel    , sdlstn g  I n 9 ta
Fftre                               d58              1569        669           8agare FS ing i     ontemnande srraouee not  F lot <t suclieslttor, setting
LXpŽrtAob.Jssence_Corp.  P,  .4, Ltodotoonsooc  1983,0..          2  Oh -0 sncragc                     32               22_        '2h           ltdortneingahore-tr2n  .. a.  e           di- ... rigat ,
F,L   -      o he derermined       1(992<950.  avrgb                                       ::3                           8o bdrequpired.                   assadFFIaon iIFP
UcOrdat lot8'                                                                                                                                               33        bBb|
tt(cltton of icouces,    P             ~ ~ ~~~~~2 .i.c....                                                  Ill((93,-    (.   1,(2               583         729          t          -o8igad   -Pr-p-iu  tohto    oreOurttt8f
PlannIng. u   Indualle                                          roI-,. yea            9 De85/
Foptit                                6                       s     E2                                                                                         5(1n       c/A           Suecnnocs  ionFo        of r    i    tkt ht d II Pt  Lnde- akiIn
I              -         .odrteoninc,,d         (994</fe             1/to tal        42                2/                 112        193              ..n. fur "fiI
P/ Pncrane Econoniet Mpbil o                    986(c It00                                            >7                103         Ill                         -c          -dt-di- -d artist            it ttct -
(8? 89                                                                                             ceparttoI it.n1inatt  codsl    povn n nf
PI                      ijciDrco             -a91/8               2 ,2             200                9                 362        ci            Astt   ie slgad tn lcou(aaInP'CI
L               S'llff            1~~~~~~~-985/ '-,Sc
[/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 -loet                                                   (931e -ae  In the  -U31                                                              225k         ..oto.rlcat            saf
1987/88/8
F,L            -           h  d-t ed            (98/8/d             3/5                               i1                  39         05           cund-p-(ts a s                      c& ro
1981/98
II 6                              3.2                171c      /0621
101cc                                                                                                9.83..393                                                      OIls                                                                                             i
F-aas1-e  I peec  et  ersh28,0  bas 1fo                                                                  .../i   essndOiDes0i0a00
b/aergeaere 1al-std  feceeh oI th  yet    peried  eide- obiclr enity to h   -roued.
02  $ges~~sg appreeimesln  14% oif base  . Cei  ene  pri..
1_1ft.rs   ceased med an--sd besase a                    Tnits.s.dIcpieha  esoeebor5   nlndi   oas
1 ieas...sece -Jktbli-aaha   sicsete  fee V.eLs_teasr
1/  felqa lselad sad-ritssrs               r  I.ren---t  and  Ete-. ra. Ce~..vne  / Henc  2, Psge I ot 5I.
T. b. base.d he the Palblic Werka Dlp-rteet.
1988/89



- 56 -                                 Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 17
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
JOB DESCRIPTION OF DIRECTOR / CHIEF TECHNICAL ADVISOR (VTA)
POST TITLE      : Director/Chief Technical Advisor
DURATION        : 24 months
DATES REQUIRED : Start in FY84
DUTY STATION   : Banjul, Republic of The Gambia
DUTIES          : Subject to the general directi2on of the Board of Governors of the
Institute, the Director/CTA will perform the following functions:
(i) Identifying the management development needs, through
consultations with the Establishment Office, Parastatal
and Private Sector organizations and organizing management
development programs relevant to these needs;
(ii)  Assisting the Government in setting up the general policies
as well as the administrative, accounting and other
procedures required for the establishment and running of
the Institute;
(iii) Staffing the Institute and training the trainers. In this
respect, the Director/CTA will also lead the expatriate staff
assigned to the Institute under the IDA-financed project
or under other bilateral or international arrangements;
(iv)  Preparing and conducting teaching courses in his/her area
of speciality;
(v) Evaluating the effectiveness of training, consulting and
research programs organized bv the Institute and establish-
ing standards and procedures for assessing the performance
of experts assigned to the project;
(vi)  Coordinating the preparation and use of case studies and
related training materials; and
(vii) Providing liaison between the Institute, the Government, the
public service and the private sector in the field of
Management Training.
QUALIFICATIONS:   Extensive experience in Management Training or teaching in an
Institution of Higher Education or in Consultancy and/or
research in Management Development.



Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 17
THE GAMBIA
TRBRAN M4NAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRICUM ADVISOR
POST TITLE:        Advisor in Curriculum Design and Training Methodologies
DURATION           Three months
DATES REQUIRED : FY84
DUTY STATION       Banjul, Republic of The Gambia
DUTIES          : Under the general guidance of the Director/Chief Technical
Advisor, the Advisor in Curriculum Design will perform the
following tasks:
(i) Analyzing the training needs in the Civil Service and
public agencies;
(ii) Developing detailed curricula for training programs
to be conducted by the Management Development Institute;
(iii) Gathering data from The Gambia's development plans and
public administration system and to prepare case studies
and related training material suitable for management
development courses;
(iv) Identifying categories of middle and senior managers in
The Gambia's public and private sectors for training at
the Management Development Institute; cooperating with
the Establishment Office in preparing lists of potential
candidates for the initial courses at the MDI and recom-
mending methodologies for their training.;
(v) Participating in the preparation of a detailed implemen-
tation plan for the establishment of The Gambian Manage-
ment Development Institute; and
QUALIFICATIONS : Appreciable experience in management training or research in
an institution of higher education and especially successful
performance in the establishment of a similar institution will
be a definite advantage.
BACKGROUND      : The Government of the Republic of The Gambia has set up a
Management Development Institute in Banjul to undertake the
training of management personnel at various levels of the
public and private sectors.
Up to the present time, very few Gambian Managers have received
management training on the initial assumption of their duties
or in the course of their employment.
Source:  IBRD Technical Assistance Unit
09/15/83



Annex 4-3
Page 3 of 17
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAINTENANCE ENGINEER
Terms of Reference -
POST TITLE:        Municipal Engineer/Adviser, Local Government Inspectorate,
Ministry for Local Government and Lands
DURATION         :  18 months
DATES REQUIRED  : FY85 - 86
July '85 - December '86
DUTY STATION    : Banjul, The Gambia
DUTIES              Phase 1 - In close collaboration with the Municipal Finance
and Training Adviser, posted in the MLGL and the Municipal
Management and Training Experts assigned to BCC and KUDC,
(i)  review the role, capabilities and maintenance experience
of BCC and KUDC and assist the Government in the pre-
paration of a legal framework for the functions and
responsibilities of the urban councils;
(ii)  evaluate the current performance of the municipal ser-
vices that are a legitimate responsibility of the
councils and propose for both BCC and KUDC, the organi-
zational structure and appropriate procedures for the
execution of these services, taking into consideration
the foreseeable financial and technical capacities of
the councils and the size and scope of the operations; and
(iii) assist BCC and KUDC staff in conducting an inventory of
the maintenance equipment of the municipalities.
Phase 2 - Following the preliminary work completed under
Phase 1, the Municipal Engineer will,
(i) assist BCC and KUDC to prepare annual work programs and
budgets; and
(ii) establish procedures for the implementation and monito-
ring of the work programs.
1/ As agreed at negotiations.



- 59 -                       Annex 4-3
Page 4 of 17
This phase of the assignment will include a deliberate and
conscious effort to provide on-the-job training to the Mu-
nicipal Supervisors (after the completion of technical
training abroad under the Project) and other technical staff
of BCC and KUDC. The advisory assistance to BCC and KUDC
for implementation of various municipal services will include:
(i) an evaluation of current procedures and practices for
administration and execution of municipal services
by the councils; and
(ii) formalization of these procedures and practices, after
necessary modification and revision, through the pre-
paration of guidelines and manuals of practice.
The  Municipal Engineer will be posted in the Local Governmnet
Inspectorate during Phase I of the assignment and report
directly to the Permanent Security of MLGL. During Phase 2
(9-12 months), the M1unicipal Engineer will be assigned to BCC
and KUDC. In addition to the above responsibilities, he will
be required to assist the MLGL in undertaking a similar review
of maintenance capabilities,,practices and procedures.
QUALIFICATIONS      a)  Degree/Diploma in civil or municipal engineering from a
recognized university or professional body.
b) 10-15 years of experience with increasing responsibility
as a municipal engineer/city manager in municipality/urban
council of 100-200,000 population.
c) Good knowledge or experience of implementing municipal
maintenance services by contract.
d) Some urban living/working experience in a developing
country, preferably in West/East Africa or the Caribbean.
e) Good command of written and spoken English, some knowledge
of French desirable.



- 60 -                        Annex 4-3
Page 5 of 17
THE G-AMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT DIRECTOR
Terms of Reference
OBJECTIVE        : To coordinate and ensure efficient project execution through
adequate management of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU),
located in the Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial
Development.
DUTIES           : The specific duties and responsibilities of the Project
Director will include:
(i) Heading the PCU within the Ministry of Economic Planning
and Industrial Development and coordinating its efficient
functioning;
(ii) Coordinating and integrating the implementation of the
different components of the projects, in conjunction
with Department Heads and Chief Executives of participa-
ting parastatals and local government agencies;
(iii) Together with the Deputy Project Director and the special
subcommittee created w:ithin the Inter-Agency Coordinating
Committee (ICC), (a) training local staff who will
receive fellowships for special study; (b) ensuring
the effective implementation of the training aspects
under the projects; (c) initiating the recruitment of
consultants to be employed under the project; and
(d) monitoring the disengagement program of expatriate
staff making way for trained Gambians to take over;
(iv) Supervising the technical and physical aspects of the
project, including the preparation, calling and evalua-
tion of bids and the award of contracts relating to the
project in accordance with IDA guidelines and- consistent
with relevant government procedures;
(v) Coordinating the utilization and accounting of project
funds of Departmental Hieads and Chief Executives of con-
cerned parastatal organizations and agencies in accord-
ance with established government financial procedures;
Ivi) Ensuring that the Accountant maintain adequate accounts
of project finances both in respect of external and
Government financial contributions;



- 61 -                             Annex 4-3
Page 6 of 17
(vii) Preparing and submitting disbursement claims to IDA
through the appropriate channels in the Ministry of
Finance and Trade, after the inputs by relevant pro-
ject agencies;
(viii) Ensuring the timely submission of annual audited
accounts to government and IDA;
(ix) Monitoring and reporting to ICC and IDA progress on all
project component;
(x) Collating, preparing and submitting quarterly and annual
progress reports to IDA; and
(xi) Undertaking any other function directly related to the
efficient execution of the project, as directed by
Government.
REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS        The Project Director, as the head of the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU), will be directly responsible to the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Deve-
lopment (the Project Coordinator) for the implementation of
the Urban Management and Development Project. He will coor-
dinate the activities of the Ministries, Departments and
Agencies which have direct executive responsibility for sub-
project implementation. He will also liaise closely with the
Departments responsible for other donor-financed projects in
related fields (e.g., GTZ Urban Plan Project) to ensure the
avoidance of duplication and the rational deployment of
scarce resources within the urban sector.
QUALIFICATIONS      Professional qualifications in architecture or engineering
from a recognized institution; plus a minimum of five years
practical experience, preferably involving urban development
projects in a developing country.



- 62 -                      Annex 4-3
Page 7 of 17
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ACCOUNTANT
Terms of Reference
OBJECTIVE        : To ensure adequate and efficient accounting of all project
finances and project-related financial activities.
DUTTES.          : The Project Accountant, to be based in the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU), in the Ministry of Economic Planning and Indus-
trial Development, shall have overall responsibility for the
financial management of the project. He shall specifically:
(i) Set up an appropriate system of accounting for project
finances within the PCU, consistent with conventional
accounting practices and established Government regulations;
(ii) Monitor as far as possible, recording of project-rela-
ted financial flows in all executing agencies, including
periodic inspection of and discussion with relevant
financial officers;
(iii) Prepare quarterly aggregate accounts for the project for
insertion in the PCU's quarterly progress report;
(iv) Directly liaise with financial consultants in Banjul
City Council,Kanifing Urban District Council and the
Ministry for Local Government and Lands and closely
monitor project-related on the job training, consistent
with the individual terms of reference;
(v) At least one day per week provide appropriate training
for accounting staff in the PCU to facilitate continuity
and institutional development;
(vi) Review and sign off on all disbursement applications
prepared by respective executing agencies, and monitor
reconciliation of settlements by IDA with the Ministry
of Finance;
(vii)  Closely monitor all project-related statements of expen-
ditures through occasional reviews with financial staff
in all project-executing agencies; and
7iii)  Assist executing agencies in preparation for the annual
external audit and finalization of accounts.



-63 -
Annex 4-3
Page 8 of 17
REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS    : The Project Accountant shall be directly answerable to the
Permanent Secretary of the MLGL and will work closely on
a day-to-day basis with the Project Director.
QUALIFICATIONS  : The Project Accountant shall be a qualified accountant with
at least ten years of practical experience. Developing
country experience and experience in urban development projects
would be a distinct advantage.



- 64 -                       Annex 4-3
Page 9 of 17
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VALUATION SPECIALIST (CHIEF VALUATION OFFICER) CONSULTANCY
Terms of Reference 1/
OBJECTIVE            To revitalize the Valuation Unit in the MLGL and undertake
a revaluation of property for the Greater Banjul area.
DUTIES               The Consultant, who should be appointed as Chief Valuation
Officer, in the Ministry for Local Government and Lands no
later than June 1, 1984, should undertake the following
tasks by the respective dates over a 24-30 month period.
(Respective tasks to be completed by dates in parentheses)
(i)  Along with the Government's Legal Staff, draft regula-
tions and seek approval to conduct property revalua-
tion under Section 5(2) of the 1978 Valuation Act.
In doing so, he will review all existing laws relating
to Rating and Valuation, to determine the extent to
which they should be retained, amended or repeated;
(July 31, 1984)
(ii) Assist government in educating the public on the tech-
nical aspects of the valuation; (on-going)
(iii) Assist in the reconstruction of the Valuation Unit in
the MLGL largely through the merger of the two small
units in the BCC and KUDC and the transfer of their
staff; (August 31, 1984)
(iv) Prepare a detailed work-program satisfactory to the
Association, for undertaking the exercise, including
the preparation of an implementation schedule;
(August 31, 1984)
(v)  Prepare and implement an organized on-the-job training
program for technical staff within the Valuation Unit,
including suitable training for any valuation cadets;
(December 31, 1984)
(vi)  Undertake therevaluation of property exercise itself;
(January 1, 1985 - December 31, 1985)
(vii) Prepare the new valuation lists, advising on the details
and timing of the necessary resources to bring the list
into operation; (June 30, 1986)
1/ As discussed at negotiations.



-65 -                              Annex 4-3-
Page 10 of 17
(viii)  In conjunction with financial experts to be based in
the BCC and KUDC, advise government on the rating pro-
cedures which would continue to be a function of the
local authorities themselves, covering such areas as
the use of differential rates, special assessment areas,
services, levies, direct service charges and revenue
sharing and government grants; (July 1, 1986) and
(ix)  Prepare a brief manual of procedures to be followed in
the administration of future revaluation.
(December 31, 1986)
REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS         Because of the sensitivity of this post to political and
other pressures, special legal safeguards are necessary to
ensure its professional independence. The appointment should
be 'statutory' and should cover regulations to be made under
the Valuation Act. The Consultant will report directly to
the Permanent Secretary (MLGL). Bi-monthly progress reports
will be prepared for review by the MLGL, the Inter-Agency
Coordinating Committee and the Project Coordinating Unit for
submission to IDA.
QUALIFICATIONS       a)  University degree or equivalent in Urban Land Economics
or Estate Management and membership of a recognized Professional
Institute; and
b) At least 5-years post-qualification experience as a valuer
in Government, local authority or private practice. Extensive
experience in rating and revaluation is essential.



- 66 -                         Annex 4-3
Page ll of 17
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING CONSULTANCY
Terms of Reference -/
OBJECTIVE          : To strengthen existing systems of municipal management and
finance country-wide, focusing particularly on training,
inspection and audit functions of local authorities.
DUTIES             : Over an18-month period, commencing within 90 days of Credit
effectiveness, the Consultant will:
(i)  Review the various systems and procedures of municipal,
operational and financial management throughout The
Gambia attempting to standardize these as far as possible,
through revision and updating of existing manuals of
practice. In this respect, he will work closely with
the financial consultants in BCC and KUDC;
(ii) Together with the Municipal Engineering Specialist, to
be located in the MLGL, evaluate the existing system
of central local government partnership and make recom-
mendations on ways of improving such arrangements, espe-
cially in so far as identifying and rationalizing res-
ponsibility for maintenarnce activities are concerned;
(iii) Review in detail all existing training programs for
local government staff, assessing their impact and effec-
tiveness and preparing a medium term program for up-
grading the quality of staffing at all levels system-
wide. In particular, the Consultant shall evaluate the
on-going program of trairning provided by the local go-
vernment inspectorate ancd through the organization of
one or two of these courses, train local staff to sus-
tain these in the future;
(iv) Review the role, structure, functions and profile of the
local government inspectorate division as it is presently
structured, evaluating the division's impact and effec-
tiveness in ensuring adequate financial control over
local authorities country-wide and making appropriate
recommendations for reforms;
(v) Examine the viability or not of reintroducing a local
government loan scheme for local authorities in The Gambia; and
1/ As discussed at negotiations,



- 67 -                             Annex 4-3
Page 12 of 17
(vi) Identify appropriate arrangements for improving the
administration and supervision of local authorities
in general by the Ministry.
REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS          The Consultant will directly report to the Permanent Secretary
of the MLGL and will be based in the Ministry itself, although
it is likely that short stays in provincial local authorities
will be necessary. Prior to commencement of work, a work-plan,
acceptable to IDA, will be designed by the Consultant and agreed
upon with the MLGL. Periodic progress reports will be prepared for
review by the Ministry, the Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee
and the Project Coordinating Unit.
QUALIFICATIONS        The Consultant shall be a professional municipal accountant
with 10 years of experience in African or other developing
countries and with significant experience in municipal training
and administration.



- 68 -                        Annex 4-3
Page 13 of 17
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL CONSULTANCY (BCC AND KUDC)
Terms of Reference /
OBJECTIVE          : To review, modify and install effective and efficient sys-
tems of operations and financial management in the Banjul
City Council (BCC) and Kanifing Urban District.
DUTIES             : Over a.two-year period, commencing no later than 60 days after
the completion of the existing short-term municipal financial
consultancy, the Consultant will:
(i)  Based on decisions taken and agreements reached on the
financial records and condition by the short-term mu-
nicipal finance specialist, further review the financial
system and procedures, suggesting modifications as
appropriate;
(ii) Prepare a manual of operational and financial procedures
adequately building on any existing documentation or
guidelines.  This should be done in consultation with
the Municipal Finance and Training Consultant based in
the MLGL, who would be responsible for designing such
procedures on a country-wide basis;
(iii)  Review and strengthen the existing system of revenue col-
lection through the creation of a formal debt collecting
section, focusing on systematically reducing oustanding
arrears as far as possible, as agreed upon between the
Association and Government;
(iv) In consultation with the Municipal Finance and Training
Consultant, design detailed charts of accounts and draft
accounting manuals for improving the management of the
Council's financial resources and assist in the implemen-
tation of the systems;
(v)  Provide a minimum of one full working day per week of
organized on-the-job training for supervisory financial
and qualified clerical staff identified, based on progress
in the design of both the operational and financial
manuals and in the design of modified systems;
1/ As discussed at negotiations.



- 69 -                       Annex 4-3
Page 14 of 17
(vi) Review rating and other revenue practices and procedures,
making recommendations for modifications as requested,
consulting, as appropriate, with the valuation consultant;and
(vii) Assist in the identification of suitably qualified
Gambians for further local and external training as re-
quired under the program of staff development for the
Council funded by the project.
REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS          The Consultant will be directly answerable to the Permanent Sec-
retary of the MLGL for reporting purposes. Prior to commence-
ment of work, a work-plan acceptable to IDA, will be designed
by the Consultant and agreed upon with the Ministry for Local
Government and Lands. Bi-monthly progress reports will then
be prepared for review by the Ministry, the Inter-Agency
Coordinating Committee and Project Coordinating Unit and
submission to IDA.
QUALIFICATIONS        The Consultant shall be a professional municipal engineer,
with experience in African or other developing countries and
with specific municipal accounting and financial management
skills, over a period of at least 10 years.



- 70 -                        Annex 4-3
Page 15 of 17
THE GAMBIA
URBAi MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CIVIL ENGINEER
- Terms of Reference
OBJECTIVE            'To supervise the execution of all physical works on the
project, from a base in the Public Works Department,
Ministry of Works.
DUTIES                The duties and responsibilities of the Civil Engineer will
include:
(i) Advising and assisting the Ministry of Works (PWD)
and MEPID Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in the
checking of designs, specifications and subsequent
tendering of civil engineering works for both up-
grading and pilot land development areas, designs and
tender documents for which will be prepared by other,
non-related consultants;
(ii) Examining the design proposals and estimated costs pre-
pared by the design consultants for upgrading and pilot
land development areas and evaluate the proposals against
the design and cost standards laid down in the loan
documents. He will advise PCU as necessary if such pro-
posals are not compatible with such standards and sug-
gest appropriate revisions to such proposals;
(iii) providing advice and assistance in the prequalification
and tendering process, the bid evaluation and the award
of contracts. He will monitor each tender process and
include details of the process, bid evaluation and award
of contracts in each quarterly report the advisor shall
prepare;
(iv) Advising and assisting the PCU and Ministry of Works (PWD)
in the interpretation of GOG regulations, and IBRD/IDA
regulations and guidelines contained or referred to in
the loan documents, and the applications of such regu-
lations to the Project;
(v) Providing construction supervision assistance for upgrading
and land development works:
(a) introducing inspection and reporting procedures;
(b) training MOW site supervision staff;



- 71 -                         Annex 4-3
Page 16 of 17
(c) advising on material testing and control;
(d) assisting in solving problems in the field;
(e) conducting random checking of quality and
quantity of work produced;
(f) preparing reports on work progress to evaluate
against supervision consultants' reports; and
(g) advising and assisting with the preparation of
specifications, tender documents and the award
of contracts for the procurement of any vehicles,
goods, and equipment to be provided by the IDA
credit.
(vi) Providing advice and assistance to construction supervision
consultants on the production of "as built" drawings after
construction works are completed;
(vii) Continuing to develop and implement the overall technical
control system for the project;
(viii) Checking all payments to contractors and, in conjunction
with the supervision consulting engineers, certifying and
assisting in the preparation of applications for reimburse-
ment for submission to the IBRD/IDA;
(ix) A major task of the Civil Engineer in the latter part of
the program period will be to develop systems and procedures,
and programs for the maintenance of infrastructure facilities
such as roads, drains, streetlighting, etc. The Civil
Engineer shall maintain close contact with the Municipal
Engineering Consultant assigned to MLGL to assist Banjul
City Council (BCC) and Kanifing Urban District Council (KUDC)
in the setting up of operations and maintenance systems
in the Greater Banjul urban area. The Civil Engineer
shall also assist inthe delineation of maintenance respon-
sibilities between MOW and the local urban councils;
(x) the Civil Engineer may, notwithstanding the tasks outlined
above, also be required to provide general and specific
operational support to Ministry of Works (PWD) in the
supervision of other construction works and maintenance
of assets not included in the IDA-assisted Urban Manage-
ment and Development project;
(xi) The Civil Engineer may, in collaboration with the PCU and
the Physical Planning Department of MLGL, be required



- 72 -                        Annex 4-3
Page 17 of 17
to assist in the preparation of future urban improvement
programs, including:
(a) selection of priority areas;
(b)  preparation of surveys;
(c)  preliminary layout designs;
(d)  engineering standards;
(e)  costing;
(f)  budgeting; and
(g)  maintenance.
The program will also indicate management, funding and
staffing requirements.
(xii) The Civil Engineer will be expected to work closely with
a counterpart Gambian Pupil Engineer for a period of not
less than 12 months and provide relevant on-the-job
practical training, especially in design issues, construc-
tion techniques, supervision and reporting practices, esti-
mating, costing and works measurement, soils testing,
surveying; and
(xiii)  Further assistance will be given by the Civil Engineer to
ensure that problems identified and solutions recommended
to overcome such problems are implemented in the field.
REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS          The Civil Engineer will be directly responsible to the Director
of Public Works, Ministry of Works, but, for the technical super-
vision of the Urban Management and Development Project over a
period of 24 months, will liaise closely with and report to
the Project Director heading the Project Coordinating Unit within
MEPID. He will also liaise closely with technical departments
of other Government agencies involved in the project, such as
GUC, MLGL (Physical Planning Department) and SSHFC.
QUALIFICATIONS    : The Civil Engineer shall hold a civil engineering degree from a
recognized university and have had extensive (at least five years)
practical experience and responsibility in the design, construc-
tion, supervision and management of major civil works including
roads, water supply systems, drainage, and public facilities.
Experience in working environments similar to The Gambia is
considered essential.



-13 -
Annex 4-4
THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY DETAILS OF STUDIES TO BE UNDERTAKEN UNDER PROJECT
Required
Latest      Appropriate                                        Skill of
Executing       Commencement    Maximum               Major Areas                  Person/Firm
Name of Study                  Agency/Dept.         Date         Duration           To be covered                  Undertaking
1.  LAND ADMINISTRATION,          MLGL           6 months        6 months        (a)  Land Administration and   Land economist,
PRICING AND DEVELOP-                        after                                 Tenure                      and/or qualified
MENT   (para. 3.03)                         effectiveness                   (b)  Land Allocation and          valuer
Development
(c) Land Pricing
- Ground Rents
- Ground Premiums
- Leases
- Cost Recovery
- Rating and Valuation
(d) Land Registration
(e) Land Institutions and
Relationships
(f) Any other land related
activity
Objectives:  To identify strengths and weaknesses of current practices and make positive recommendations for adequate reforms,
especially in pricing and development aspects.
2.  FINANCIAL AND                  SSHFC         3 months        6-9 months    (a)  Financial Administration  Housing economist
OPERATIONAL POLICY                          after                           (b)  Financial Operations         and/or housing
AND PROCEDURES OF                           effectiveness                     -  Loan Processing              finance specialist
SSHFC (para. 5.13)                                                            -  Investments                  (strong accounting)
-  Resource Mobilization       background
-  Debt Management             required)
- Mechanization of
Operations
(c) Interest Rates
(level and adjustments)
Obiectives   To define princiules and details of a suitable staLement of operating and financial policy for Corporation,
including detailed study of likely impact of interest rates and housing subsidies on the Corporation and
housing in general in The Gambia.
3.  HOUSING SUBSIDIES               MLGL        3 months         6-9 months    (a)  Housing subsidies in          Housing economist
IN THE GAMBIA                              after                                 the public sector
effectiveness                      -  Identification, measure-
ment, assessment of impact
and suggested reforms for
housing sector
Source: Mission Preparation
1/24/84



THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL. SECURITY AND HOUSING FINANCE CORPOATION
ASPECTS OF ACTUARIAL ASSESSMENT OF PENSION SCHEME
Accrued Liabilities                               Contributions Proposed
> 'rrent    Pensioners                  Surplus or
Employer                      Lmployee    and ieavers   Total        (Deficiency)  Noriml  Deficoency  Tota
D             D           D             D           8           S 0
Gambia Ports Authority                   2,609,618    -26,020    2^635,638        293,210      22.5       -2.2       20.4
Gambia Utilities Corporation             1,990,810      19,147    2,009,957       268,782      22.p       -2.3       19.7
National Trading Corporation               231,541       8,969       240,510      134,671      20.8       -6.5       14.3*
Gambia Comnercial & Development Bank    567,451           -          567,451      157,899      21.0       -3.4       17.6
Gambia Insurance Cornpany                   89,403        -           89,403       41,264      21.1       -4.2       16.9
Gambia Produce Marketing Board           1,654,923      39,070    1,693,993       237,918      22.5       -2.7       19.8
Gambia Cooperative Union                   201,427        -          201,427      161,818      21.9       -6.7       15.2
Gambia River Transport Corporation         219,387        -          219,387       96,928      21.8       -2.8       19.0
NaJtional Partnership Enterprises           20,247        -           20,247       11,116      21.1       -2.8       18.3
State Pensions Board                        41,365        -           41,365      (11,976)    21.3        +3.0       24.3
Livestock Marketing Board                   68,844        -           68,844        9,444      21.6       -1.0       20.6
Public Transport Corporation               313,782        -          313,782       27,719      21.6       -0.7       20.9
Gambia Airways                             395,444        -          395,444    (292,937)    21.4        +12.5       33.9
Arthur Young Cassleton Elliott               7,533        -            7,533        1,906      20.7       -0.9       19.8
National Investment Board                   17,618        -           17,618       (5,131)    21.0        +1.5       22.5  ~.
British Petroleum                           61,802        -           61,802       31.980      22.0       -7.5       14.5
Family Planning Association                 99 988 a/                 9 9       * (99 988)    21.0       +12.5       33.5
TOTAL PORTFOLIO                        8L591 183                 81684,389    __064_623
a/ Assuming full back service granted



Current Employees Included in Valuation
---Prospective Benefits---
Numbers          Salaries         ----Pensions---  Lump Sums
Employer                     Males Females  Males   Females        Males    Females    Males
Gambia Ports Authority                   788   32   2132223    81540        942713     46859      33336
Gambia Utilities Corporation             665   16   1895529    52438        871742      24110     35808
National Trading Corporation              78   19    295264    58092        132633      35657     19343
Gambia Coninercial & Development Bank   119   46    596422   180180         326899    107671       4372
Gambia Insurance Company                  18   10    127272    36480         62923     22990           0
Gambia Produce Marketing Board           349   17   1377762    79008        612192     47900      67060
Gambia Cooperative Union                  95   11    364703    32856        158419      19193     10016
Gambia River Transport Corporation        81    2    337724       8316      117526      4789      35341
National Partnership Enterprises          17    3      56940      8940       27487       5736          0
.State Pensions Board                       8    4      52800    12792       25769       7398          0
Livestock Marketing Board                 38    4    145108    12012         67147       6791       1085
Public Transport Corporation             133   26    533978    78832        248840     46588      29191
Gainbla Airways                           59   35    239120  J152924        116560     97348      12969
Arthur Young Cassleton Elliott             3    2      17220    16500         9090       8730          0
National Investment Board                  6    5      40404    15036        20275       8168          0
British Petroleum                          7    1      64704      6240       31036       3661          0
Family Planning Association               17   28      49548    83400        27811     47834           0
CD r
x
TOTAL PORTFOLIO                       2481  261   8326721   915586    3799062    541423    248521     
Source: Actuarial Assessment Report prepared by Bowring anc Layborn, UK. June 1983.
8/25/83



THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DE.DVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL SECURITY AND HOUSING FINANCE CORP
HOUSING FUND- =FORECAST INCOME STATEMENT
82/83          83/84       84/85      85/86       86/87      87/88       88/89      89/90       90/91       91/92      92/93
(Appoved Ests.)
INCOME
Interest on Investments                                 6             -            3         13          30         44          66         82          96         109        123
Interest on IDA Loan a/
- Land Development                                               -          -           27        149         211        206         197        189         180         172
- Housing Credits b/                                             -          -           39        145         303        295         234        272         259         247
Interest on Ganoc Scheme Loan c/                                     162         482        628         599        567         535        502         470         437        405
Total Income                           6            162         485        707         923       1125        1102       1065        1027         985        947
EXPENDITURE
Interest Payments to Government
- IDA Land Development d/                                         8         67         129        142         167        161         150        139         128         116
- IDA Housing Credits e/                                         -          --          30        114         203        239         239        231         215         200
- Sales and Carrying Costs f/                                     5         14          -            I         -          -           -          -           -           -
(Ganioc Scheme)
Reserve for Bad Debts
- IDA Land Development                                           -          -           15         83         117        114         110        105         100          95
- iDA Housing Credits                                            -          -           21         81         169        164         158        151         144         137
- Ganioc Scheme                                                  45        134         175        167         158        148         140        131         122         113
Collection Charges - Ganoc Scheme f/                                  -           13          17         17          16         15          14         14          13          12
- IDA Land Development                                           -          -           -          -            4          6           7           7          7           7
- IDA Housing Credits                                            -                      -           4           8          9           8          8           8           7
Advertisement and Promotion                                             I          1           2          2           3          3           4          4           5           5
Other Administrative Expenses                          52            _ 5         _5            6          6           6          6           7        _7          _7            F8
'Total Expenditure                   52              64         234        395         617        851         865        837         797         749        700
Surplus (deficit) of Income
over Expenditure                  (46)             98         251        312         306        274        237         228         230        236         24:
a/ Land Development Scheme terms to Benieficiaries: 97 - 25 years - no grace.
b/ Housing Credits Scheme terms to Bleneficiaries:  91 - 25 years - no grace.
c/ GANOC Scheme Mortgage terms to Beneficiaries:   9% - 20 years - no grace.
d/ Land Development Scheme - Terms troiii Governiment to Corporation:  7?  - 15 years - 5 years grace.
e/ Housing Credits - Terms from Government to Corporation:  71^ - 15 years - 5 years grace.
f/ Collection alnd Sales and Carrying assumed to be one quarter percent of yearlv outstanding loan balances for each sub-component.
Reserve for loan losses asstumed to he 5% of average yearly outstanding loan ualanlces for land lDevelopment Loans and flousing CreditLs                                                 W n
anid 2 1/2Z for GANOC loans.                                                                                                                                                              [x
g/ Estimated to grow by 5% yearly.                                                                                                                                                           1
Source:  Budgeted estimiates of SSIIF( and mission calculationis.
8/15/83



THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL SECURITY AND HOUSING FINANCE CORPORATION
HOUSING FUND ACCOUNT - FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS
(as of June 30, 1982/83 - 1992/93)
(D'000)
1982/83 a/    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93
(Approved
Estimates)
Assets
Investments                                -              -          74         262         496        726         932       1,110       1,281       1,454       1,631
Mortgage Receivable
- IDA Land Development Scheme            -              -           -         595      1,654       2,323       2,242       2,147       2,052       1,957       1,862
- IDA Housing Credit                     -              -           -         855      2,377       3,338       3,222       3,085       2,948       2,811       2,674
- Ganoc Scheme                           -          3,600       7,110       6,840                  6,120       5,760       5,400       5,040       4,680       4,320
Sub-Total                        -         3,600       7,184       8,552       1,107      12,507      12,156     11,742      11,321      10,902      10,487
Less Loan Losses                           -             45         134         211         331        444         426         408         387         366         345
Other Assets b/                        5,780          3,661        2,152      4,535       2,613      2,612       3,023       3,488       3,731       3,978       4,232
TOTAL ASSETS                 5,780          7,216      9,202      10,956      13,289      14,675      14,753      14,822     14,665      14,514      14,374
Liabilities
Loans Payable
- Land Development                       -            238       1,666       2,023       2,380      2,380       2,221       2,062       1,903       1,744       1,585
- Housing Credit                         -              -           -         855      2,394       3,420       3,420       3,420       3,192       2,964       2,736
Accumulated Fund
- Opening Balance                      280          5,780       6,978       7,536      8,078       8,515       8,875       9,112       9,340       9,570       9,806
- Government Equity c/               5,500          1,100         307         230         131         86            -          -           -           -           -
- Operating Surplus (Deficit)            -             98         251         312         306        274         237         228         230         236         247
- Closing Balance                    5,780          6,978       7,536       8,078      8,515       8,875       9,112       9,340       9,570       9,806      10,053
TOTAL LIABILITIES            5,780          7,216      9,202      10,956      13,289      14,675      14,753      14,822      14,665      14,514     14,374
a/ No actuals available: Fund active only 6 months in 1981/82 -- no reliable figures obtained.
b/Net of current liabilities.
c/ Government Equity contributions as follows: 1982/82: D 300,000 - working capital for Corporation; D 5,200,000 - working of GANOC Scheme as equity;                             X x
1983/84: D 1,100,000 - transfer as equity for improvements to GANOC scheme; 1984/85 - 1987/88: Annual Government equiity contributions from IDA project
for institution building (training, assistance, etc.).
Source: Budgeted estimates of SSHFC and mission calculations.
8/15/83



THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL SECURITY AND HOUSING FINANCE CORPORATION
HOUSING FUND ACCOUNT - FORECAST FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS
(July - June 1982/83 - 1992/93)
83/84-'                      (D00)
SOURCES OF FUNDS                          (Apprjved  84/85       85/86       86/87      87/88      88/89      89/90       90/91      91/92      92/93
budrtet )
Operations                                    98        251         312        306        274        237         228        230        236         247
Add Provision for Loan
Losses                                        45                    211        331        444        426        408         387        366         345
Funds from Operations                        143        385        523         637        718        663        636         617        602         592
Loans Received
IDA - Land Dev. Scheme                       238       1428         357        357         -          -           -          -          -
IDA - tousing Credits                         - =                  855        1539       1026
SUB-TOTAL                                238       1428       1212        1896       1026         -          -           -          -
Customer Loan Repayments
IDA - Land Dev. Scheme                        -          -           -          12         45         81         95          95         95          95                 1
IDA - Housing Credits                         -          -           -          17         65        116        137         137        137         137
GANOC Scheme                                  -          90         270        360        360        360         360        360        360         360
SUB-TOTAL                                 -          90        270         389        470        557        592         592        592        07
Equity Contributions                        2217        307         230        131         86         -           -          -                      -
TOTAL SOURCES                           2598       2210       2235       3053        2300       1220       1228        1209       1194       1184_
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Loans Made:
IDA - Land. Dev. Scheme                       -          -         595        1071        714         -           -          -          -           -
IDA - Housing Credits                         -          -          855       1539       1026         -           -          -          -
GANOC Scheme                                3600       3600          -          -          -          -           _          _          _
Repayment on Borrowings
IDA-Land Dev.                               -          -                                           159         159        159        159         159
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~ IDA  - Land Dev.                                                                          22
-IDA- Housing Credits                                     -          -                                                                                                     -  -  -  -  228  228  228
Increases (decreases) in                                                                                                                                                L
Investments                                    -          74        188        234        230         206        128        171         173        177                   a I
Increases (decreases) in
Net Assets                                  (1002)     (1464)       597        209         330        855        891        651         634        620
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                      2598       2210        2235       3053       2300        1220       1228       1209       1194        1184
a/  No actuals obtained for any previous years.  Fund commenced January, 1982.
Source: Mission Forecasts
8/15/83



_ 79 _                                                                A-nex 5-3
Vage1 Iof 
THE GAMBIA
URBAN hANAGEKeNT AND DEVELOPHOT PROJECT
SOCIAL SECURITY AND HOUSING PIMA4NCE CORPORATION
FORECAST CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATRMENT (WITH IDA PROJECT)
(July-June 1981182-1992/1993)
1981/62      1982183       1983/8r       1984/85         1985/86       1986/27       1987/88      1988/89       1989/90       ,1990/91    1991/92    1992/93
(Actual      (Approvd
Audited)    Istimates)
INCOME
Interest on investments             708           898          1054          1225          1418            1621          1850          2101         2377          2681          3015         3383
Surplus-death in service              2              3             3             3             3              3             3             3            3             3             3            3
Sale of publcatios                    -              1             1             1             1              1             1             1            1             1              1           1
Int. on loans to =embers            178           250           263           276           289             304           319           335          352           370           388          407
- Land Developet  (IDA)               -             -             -i            -            27            149           211           206          197           188           180          172
- Hoousig Credits        (IDA)                                    -             -            30            114           203           239          203           231           180          300
- Cosoc Scheme                       _             -           162           482           628             599           567           535          502           470           437          405
Rental nf HQ bhilding                  -          139            128           128           128            128           128           128          128           128           128          128
Othersndry receipts                    -             -             1             1             1              1              1             1            1             1             1            1
Total Income                       888          1291          1612          2116          2525            2920          3283          3549         3800          4074          468          430
EXPENDITURE
Salaries  (intl. Directnrs           97           291           523           742           685            736           887           976          1074          1181          1300         1429
allowance)
Gtoop life insurance                 67            80             96           115           138           166           200           239           287           344           413          496
profe.ssionl fees                    48            52             55            90           100            55            60            60            50            50            50           50
Electricity and water                 2             5            10             11            12            13            14            16            17            18            19           20
Tr-veling expenses                   36            45            60            80             96           115           127           140           154           169           186          205
Office expenses                       4             6             12            14            16            18            20            22             5            28            30           33
Printing asd statios-ry              36             6              7             8             9            11            12            14            15            17            18           20
lDp-eciatin                         15            70            68             67            65            63            62            60            59            56            53           51
Entertain-ent                          1            2              2             2             2             2             3             3             3             4             4            4
Postage, cables., tel.                5              5             8            I0            12            14            16            18            20            22            24           26
Staff pens-ins                       17            70            77            85             94           104           115           127           140           154           169          186
Office rest                           4            65            72             79            87            95           104           114           125           138           151          166
Vehicle running cost                   9            12            15            18            22            26            31            37            45            54            65           78
Miacellaneous (dosatios., ert)    7                16             17            18            19            20            21            22            23            24            25           26
Soles and carrying costs              -             -              5           14              -             -             -             -
(G..oc Scheme)
Cotributios  to I.S.S.A.             9            18             11           12             13            14            15            16           17             18            19           20
Staff training                       20            25            30            60             65            50            25            25           25             25            25           25
Interest charges
-Land Dev. (IDA)                     -             -             -            56           142            200          216           218          215             205           188          173
-HousIng Credito  (IDA)              -             -              -             -            30            114         203            239         239             231           215          200
collection charges                    -             -             -              -             -              -            4             6            7              7             7            7
-Land Dev. (IDA)
-Housing Credits (IDA)               -             -              -             -             -              4            8             9            8              8             7            7
-Gusoc Scheme                        -             -             -            13            1'              17           16            15           14             13            12           11
Prov-sion for loan losses              -            -              -             -            12             83          117           114          110            105           100           95
-Land Dev. (IDA)
-Housing Credits                     -             -              -             -            21             81          169           164          158            151           144          137
- -anoc Scheme                       -             -            45           134           175,            167         158            148         140             131           122          113
Legal fees                             2             5             5             6             7              8            9            10           11             12            13           14
Medical fees                           3             6             7             8             9             10           11            12           13             14            15           16
Medical contributions                  -             5             6             7             8              9           10            11           12             13            14           15
Audit fees                             3             8             9            11            13             15           17            19           21             23            25           27
Advertise-ent/publicity                1             1             2             3             4              5            6             7            8              9            10           11
Office equipment nepaies               1             1             2             3             4              5            6             7            8              9            10           11
Total Expe-dit-re                  387           786          1151          1667          1889            2190         2665          2868         3043           3234          3433         3674
Dans. of isc-   ovr                 01           5
expnditre                          505                         AL            449          645              730         618           681          757            840           935         1026
C/P to Anuuisqlted Fund           450           454            461           449          645             730          618           681          757            840           935         1026
(For assumptions - see prcject files)
Source: Sundry past Annual Repnrts of State Pension Bord and SSHIFC and m.iseie  ferecasts.



THE GAMBLA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL SECURITY AND HOUSING FINANCE CORPORATION
FORECAST CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS a/
(as at June 30, 1982/83-1992/93)
(D'000)
1981/82  82/83
(audited  (approved    83/84    84/85       85/86    86/87       87/88    88/89       89/90    90/91      91/92    92/93
actuals)  estimates)
Total Investments and Loansb/       10293      12201     12269    14556       17093    19889       22964    26352      30080    34172       38670    43599
of which:
(Housing Fund Account)                          (51)       (77)    (118)      (184)    (262)      (348)    (448)       (559)    (672)       (793)    (908)
Other Net Assets                     2168       8723      11208    12271      13683    15230       16949    18763      21145    23452       25920    28441
TOTAL ASSETS                  12461     20924      23477    26827       30776    35119      39913    45295       51225    57624      64590    72040              g
Represented By
Total Accumulated Funds-            12461      20924     23477    26827       30776    35119      39913    45295       51225    57624       64590    72040
of which:
(Housing Fund Account)               -         (5833)    (5733)   (6060)    (6492)   (6901)    (7364)   (7917)    (8511)   (9099)           (9690)   (10273)
a/ Pension, Provident and Housing Funds.
b/ Assuming all increments to membership contributions invested or loaned out.
c/ Includes Housing and Provident Fund accounts and other movements affecting fund balances such as additions and transfers.
0 I
Source: Sundry past Annual Reports of State Pension Board and SSHFC and mission forecasts.
8/25/83



THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANJUL CITY COUNCIL
FORECAST RECURRENT FINANCES (WITHOUT PROJECT)
(July - June 1983/84 - 1991/92)
(D'OOO)
1980/81a/       1982/83         83/84      84/85      85/86      86/87      87/88      88/89      89/90       90/91      91/92
(Actual         (Approved
Unaudited)      Estimates)
Revenue
Rates and Taxes                           442             580           509         535        562        590        619        650        683         717        753
Licenses                                  109             180            189        198        208        270        284        298        313         329        345
Fees                                      335             341           367         367        404        404        404        444        444        444         444
Interest                                    3              10             10         10         10         10         10         10         10          10         10
Other                                       4               8              8          8          8          8          8          8           8          8          8
TOTAL REVENUE                       893             1119          1083       1118       1192       1282       1307        1410       1458       1508       1560
Expenditure
Administration                            132             263            288        309        332        352        379        398        418         439        461
Accounts and Stores                       166             237            271        279        302        328        356        374        392         412        432
Rates and Social Services                  56              96            104        113        123        133        144        156        168         181        196
Markets                                    37              72             87         96        106        117        129        142        156         172        189
Works/Services                             62              60             66         72         79         87         96        106        117         129        142
Cemeteries                                 44              36             40         44         48         53         58         64          70         77         85
Parks                                      58              80             88         97        107        118        130        143        157         173        190
Annual Recurrent Works                    358             392            331        364        400        440        484        532         585        644        708
TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURE         913             1236          1275       1374       1497       1628       1776        1915       2063       2227       2403
REVENUE SURPLUS (DEFICIT)           (20)            (117)         (192)      (256)      (305)      (346)       (469)      (505)      (605)      (719)       (843)
a/ No actuals obtained for 1981/82.
Source: Banjul City Council unaudited statements and mission estimates.
8/25/83



THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KANIFING URBAN DISTRICT COUNCIL
FORECAST RECURRENT FINANCES (WITHOUT PROPOSED PROJECT)
(July - June, 1983/84 - 1991/92)
(D'OOO)
1979/80_/   1982/83        83/84      84/85      85/86     86/87      87/88      88/89      89/90      90/91      91/92
(Actual     (Approved
Revenue               Unaudited)  Estimates)
Rates and Taxes          161         206            211        116        173       190        209        230        253        278        306
Lands (shop Rents,         1          16             17         18        19         20         21         22         23         24         25
etc.)
Tribunals (Court           1           5              5          5          5         5          5          5          5          5          5
fines)
Trade licenses          135          143            220       231        242        254        267        280        294       309        324
Market Fees               65          61             70         74        78         82         86         90         95        99        104
Public Lands              8          14             15         16         17         18         19        20         21         22         23
Other fees (Liquor,      32          47             49         51         54         57         60        63         66         69         73
Car Park, etc.)
Interest                  1           6              6          6          6          6         6          6          6          6          6
Total Revenue           404         498            593        517        594       632        673        716        763        812        866
Administration          163         277            392        427        516       547        580        615        652        691        735
Education                 3          17             19         21         23        25         27         29         31         33         35
Medical   Health           3         21             23         25         27        30         33         36         40         44         48
Miscellaneous            28          12             13         14         16        18         20         22         24         27         29
Works and               128         188            226        271       298        328        361        397        436        480       528        x
Communications
Total Expenditure       325        515 b/         673        758        880        948       1021      1099       1183       1275       1375
Excess (Deficit)                                                                                                     -
of Recurrent Revenue
over expenditure       79        (17)             (80)     (241)      (286)      (316)      (348)     (383)      (420)      (463)      (509)
a/ Last year for which actuals available.
b/ In addition capital expenditure of D199,000 was projected to be incurred during this year.
Source:  Kanifing Urban District Council unaudited statements and mission estimates



TRE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPACT OF PROJECT REFORMS
ON FORECAST RECURRENT FINANCES OF BCC AND KUDC
(D'O00)
1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1983/84-1991/92
BANJUL CITY COUNCIL
Projected Net Revenue Surplus
(deficit) without Project a/                (201)       (247)       (315)       (387)       (474)       (546)        (629)       (719)       (843)           (4,361)
Scenario I b/
Net Revenue Surplus (deficit)
with Project                                (392)       (443)       (151)          72         263         260         361         361          359               690
Incremental Property Rates
with Project                                   -           -         348          548         803       1,128       1,183       1,243        1,305            6,558
Net Revenues Surplus (deficit)
Assuming 15% Default in
Revenue Collection                          (553)       (614)       (387)       (207)         (70)       (147)        235         223          206           (1,020)
Scenario II c/
Net Revenue Surplus (deficit)
with Project                                (392)       (443)       (225)         (41)        104         329         405         360          307              403
Incremental Property Rates
with Project - Net Revenue                     -           -         274         455          687         983       1,031       1,083       1,137             5,650
Surplus (deficit) assuming 15%
Default in Revenue Collection               (553)       (614)       (450)       (303)        (205)        (36)         19          (45)       (118)          (2,305)
KANIFING URBAN DISTRICT COUNCIL
Projected Revenue Surplus (deficit)
without Project a/                          (161)       (308)       (360)        (397)       (437)       (481)       (529)        (582)       (640)           (3,895)
Scenario I d/
Net Revenue Surplus (deficit)
with Project                                (286)       (380)       (334)        (241)       (130)        (46)        (54)         (63)        (68)           (1,602)
Incremental Property Rates
with Project                                   -           -          88          202         281         382         390          397         402             2,142
Net Revenue Surplus (deficit)
Assuming 25% Default in
Revenue Collection                          (516)       (494)       (492)        (441)       (365)       (323)       (351)        (382)       (412)          (3,776)
Scenario II e/
Net Revenue Surplus (deficit)
with Project                                (291)       (396)        (412)       (416)       (360)       (338)       (385)        (439)       (498)           (3,535)
Incremental Property Rates
with Project                                   -           -          45           82         131         195         193          191         186             1,023
Net Revenue Surplus (deficit)
Assuming 25% Default in
Revenue Collection                          (420)       (505)       (551)        (573)       (538)       (542)       (599)        (.664)      (734)           (5,126)
0 I



-4 -                        Annex 5-6
Notes and assumptions                                                        Page 2 of 2
1.  BCC:  Scenario 1       Assuming following percentage increases in revenues/expenditures
1983/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
Rates                          -      -       50    50       25     25       5       5       5
Other Revenues                 -      -       10    10       10     10      10      10      10
Recurrent Expenditure         15     15       15    10       10     10       5       5       5
Net of regisitered plots       -      -       50    -        -      -        -       -       -
2. BCC:  Scenario 2:    Assuming following percentage increases in revenues/expenditures
1983/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
Rates                         -       -       50    50      25      25       5       5       5
Other Revenues                 -      -        5      5       5      5       5       5       5
Recurrent Expenditure        15      15       15    10       10     10       5       5       5
No. of registered plots       -       -       50      -       -     -        -       -       -
3. KUDC: Scenario 1: aV  Assuming following percentage increases in revenues/expenditures
1983/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
Rates                          -      -       50    50       25     25       5       5       5
Other Revenues                 -      -       10    10       10     10      10      10      10
Recurrent Expenditure        20      20       10    10        5      5       5       5       5
No. of regisitered plots       -      -       50      -       -      -       -       -       -
4. KUDC:.Scenario 2:   Assuming following percentage increases in revenues/expenditures
1983/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
Rates                         -       -       25    25      25      25       5       5       5
Other Revenues                 -      -        5      5      5       5       5       5       5
Recurrent Expenditure        20      20       10    10        5      5       5       5       5
No. of registered plots       -       -       50      -       -      -       -       -       -
a/ More likely (base) scenario
Source: Mission Forecasts
8/25/83



THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND LANDS
FORECAST RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
(D'OOO)
1981/1982  1982/1983  1983/1984  1984/1985  1985/1986  1986/1987  1987/1988  1988/1989  1989/199u  1990/1991. 1991/1992  1992/f993
Items                    (Actuals)  Estimates
Without Project
Direct Expenditure
Personnel Emoluments a/               2.3          3.0         2.5         2.7         2.9          3.1         3.3         3.5          3.7         3.9         4.1          4.4
Supplies, Maintenance, etc. b/        2.8          3.0         1.4         1.5         1.7         1.9          2.0         2.3         2.5          2.7         3.0         3.3
SUB-TOTAL                      5.1         6.0         3.9         4.2         4.6          5.0         5.3         5.8          6.2         6.6         7.1          7.7
Indirect Expenditure
Pension and Gratuities a/             0.1          0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2          0.2         0.2         0.2
Debt Service c/                       0.3          0.9         0.8         0.9         1.0          1.1         1.2         1.3          1.4         1.5         1.6          1.7
Miscellaneous Services                 1.4         0.2         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5          0.6         0.6          0.7         0.8         0.9          1.0
SUB-TOTAL                      1.8         1.3         1.3         1.4          1.6         1.7         1.9         2.0          2.3         2.5         2.7          2.9
TOTAL EXPENDITURE              6.9         7.3         5.2         5.6          6.2         6.7         7.2          7.8         8.5         9.1         9.8         10.6
___ _O. === ___ === =__ =._ ... ._, ...                               ...         ...     a   ...          ...        ----
With Project
Direct Expenditure
Personnel Emoluments e/               2.3          3.0         2.5         2.7         2.9          3.2         3.4         3.6          3.8         4.0         4.2         4.5
Supplies, Maintenance, etc. f/        2.8          3.0         1.4         1.5         1.7          2.0         2.1         2.4          2.6         2.8         3.1         3.4
SUB-TOTAL                      5.1         6.0         3.9         4.2         4.6          5.2         5.5         6.0          6.4         6.8         7.3          7.9
Indirect Expenditure
Pension and Gratuities f/             0.1          0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.3          0.3         0.3         0.3
Debt Service g/                       0.3          0.9         0.8         0.9         1.0          1.2         1.3         1.4          1.5         1.6         1.7         1.8
Miscellaneous Services h/              1.4         0.2         0.4         0.4         0.5          0.5         0.6         0.6          0.7         0.8         0.9         1.0
SUB-TOTAL                      1.8         1.3         1.3         1.4          1.6         1.8         2.0         2.1          2.5         2.7         2.9         3.1
TOTAL EXPENDITURE              6.9         7.3         5.2         5.6         6.2          7.0         7.5         8.1          8.9         9.5        10.2         11.0
=== =_= === =__ === === _== ,_. ..... ==s ..... ~~~~~...                                      ....        ....
Incrqase in Expenditure
as a Result of Project               -           -           -            -           -          0.3         0.3          0.3         0.4         0.4          0.4         0.4
Assumptions
(Without Prolect)
a/ Per6ioinTe ziuTmnts and Pension and Gratuities:  To grow by projected rate of inflation of 8% p.a. up to end of 1985/86 and by 6t p.a. thereafter.
bf Supplies and Maintenance: To grow by 10% p.a.
c/ Debt Service:  Up to end of 2nd period (1985/86) to grow by D 0.1 million yearly to reflect average rate of borrowing of 5Z (half concessionary.
half commercial terms) on forecast annual borrowing of D 0.8 million during period.  10% growth thereafter.
d/ Miscellaneous Services:  To grow by 10% p.a.
(wit1h Project)
et Personnel Emoluments  and  Pension  and Gratuities:  Each dalasi of project costs on training and technical assistance assumed to generate 0.05
dalasis of incremental recurrent costs two and three years later respectively and to remain                                   x
constant after 1989/90 and 1990/91 respectively.  Effects on pension and gratuities assumed
to commence in 1989/90.
f/ Supplies and Maintenance:  Each dalasi of project costs on equipment and civil works assumed to generate 0.01 dalasis of incremental reccurent
costs in the same year up to 1987/88 and 0.02 dalasin thereafter.
Debt Service:  An allocable share of service charge for IDA project  (8% of total) computed, based on 1/2% charge on disbursed balance and
3/4% charge on undisbursed balance. Disbursement schedule in Annex 6-1 used.
h/ Miscellaneous Services: No charges assumed.
Source: Mission Calculations
9/15/83



THE GAMBIA
URBAN tANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE a/
(IJS$ million)
IDA FY's and
Quarters          By        Cumu-
Ending          Quarter    iative                                                                                                            2.0
1985    I          0.9 c/     0.9                                                                                                               b/
II        0.2         1.1                                                                                              '
III       0,2         1.3
IV        0.3         1.6                                                                                A        7
II        0.4         2.3                                      Estimated project disbursement profile ,                                90
III       0.4         2.7
IV        0.5         3.2                                                                          v
1987    I          0.6         3.8
II        0.6         4.4
III       0.6         5.0                                                                                                              7.0
IV        0.6         5.6
1988    I          0.5         6.1                                                                  x                                           6.0          co
II        0.5         6.6                             I                              ,                                                        o
III       0.5         7.1                                                          /         Bank-wide sector historical profile
IV        0.4         7. 5                                                                                                             5.0
1989    I          0.4         7.9
II        0.4         8.3                                                    /                                                         4.0
III       0.4         8.7
IV        0.4         9.1                              d                                                                               3.0
1990    I          0.4         9.5
II        0.3         9.8
III       0.3        10.1                                       ,20
IV        0.3        10.4                             r          .             Amount disbursed under PPF prior to credit               .
1991    I          0.3        10.7                                                      effectiveness                                           1.0
II        0.3        11.0                             l 
III       0.3        11.3                      1c r*****                  *** | .-L+1_1_     _|._*t-_.  
IV        0.2        11.5                                 1985     1986      1987      1988       1989     1990      1991      1992
IDA FY's and Quarters
a/ Assumes disbursement lag expenditure by 6 months.
b/  Forecast estimates better than historical profile on account of PPF and project start-up activities already initiated.
c/  Mainly PPF funds (US$0.8 million).
d/ Lag represents difference between Bank profile, which starts at credit signing, and project effectiveness.
Source: Mission Forecast.



THE GAMBIA
URBAN iMANAGLDENT AND DEVELOP14ENT PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF ERR FOR INFRASTRUCTUFE IMPROVEU4ENTS/LETENSIONS AND
LAND DEVELOPMENT SUB-COMP6ONENTS
Infrastructure Improvements Sub-Component
Analysis of Cost/Benefit Streams
(D'000)
1983/84      1984/85     1985/86      1986/87      1987/88       1988/89      1989/2012
COSTS
On site costs                                        1,378.11    2,756.23    2)321,03        580.26       217,60          _             _
Maintenance costs a/                                     21.56        82.69       129.11     140.71        145.06        145,06      217.60
Technical Assistance Costs b/ .(MLGL)                   176.05      150.90       120.72        15.09        20.12         -
Equipment Costs c/                                      199.51        88.67        66.50       60.90         66.50        72.04         -
Project Management and Coordination Costs d/             54.65      118.42       113.87        68.32         59.21        40.99         -
TOTAL COSTS                                           1,835.88    3,196.91    2,751,23        865.34        508,49       278,21      217.60
BENEFITS
Utilities e/                                                                      797.04    2,072.30    2,869.34    3,188.15   3,188.15
Rental Increase f/                                                                403.44    1,048.94    1,452,38    1,613,76   1,613.76
TOTAL 1RENEFITS 8/                                                             1,200,48    3,121,25    4,321,73    4.801,92   4,801.92
_ _=    =e=====    ~s
Assumptions
a/  2% of Capital costs from 1983-88;  3% thereafter, per quotation from Public Works Department;
b/  50% of total allocation to NLGL, the remainder for other divisionsIdepartment longer term institutiqnal objectives;
c/  50% of the total equipment allocated to MLGL;
d/ Pro-rated, based on percentage of total costs represented by infrastructure improvements and land development sub-cor.ponents;
e/ Utilities  D  I,20 p,, per rental unit;                                                                                                               X
f/ Rental      D 49,20 p.a. per rental unit;  expected rental increase assumed as 10%;                                                                   o
g/  8 rental units per plot:  1025 plots(85/86):  1640 plots(86/87); 1025 plots(87/88)1 410 plots(88/89); total number of plots = 4100.



Land Development Sub-Component
Amalyslis of Co_st/Benefit_Streams
(D'OOO)
COSTS                     1983/84   i984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    19')t/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/2012
Off-site Infrastructure costs                             4.99      55.50       4994       48.28       2Y9.9'                 -          -           -                -           -          -           - 9
On-site Infrastructure costs a/                          65.54    436.94      655.41    655.56        599.25      -
Community Facilities coats b/                             3.19      21.29      31-93       30-.7       19.16      -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -
saintenance costs c/                                      1.47       11.31      26.05      40.50       49.15      49.15       73.'75     7'5.73      73.73      '75373      73.75      '73.73      73-73       73-73       73-73
Technical Assistance costs d/  (SSHFC)                   17.60      56.80       40.00      19.20       22.40      24.00       -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -
Equipment costs e/  (SSHFC)                              31.04      13,79       10.54       9.48       103.4      11.21       -          -           -          _           _           _          _                       -
Project Management and Coordination costs f/             27.28      59.09       56.84      54.10       29.56      20.46       -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -
Construction Loans costs                                 -          -       1,050.00   1,050.00       900.00      -           -          -       1,076.2'5  1,076.25   1 837-50    ,064.00  1 07'6.25  1,837.50
Land costs j/                                           181-69
TOTA1 COSTS  h/                                         322,80    612.52  1,920.51  1,865.79  1,453.85           104.82       75 175     75.73  1,149.98  1, 1 49.98   1 ,911.2    1,1357.73  1.149.98   1,911.23           37
B3NEFITS
Land i/ , Rent jl
TOTAL BENEFITS                                                                              9.       617-99    882-84    882.84    88H2.84H,    882.84  1   111 .62   1,340.40   1, 731.00    ,957.17  2,185.95  2,576.55
Aseumontions
a/   25% of total, the remainder allocated to upgrading of oaTh  liik Ln city ro,ad networl;;
b/   25% of total, the remainder bhnefitting larger cstcmeen r area;
r/   2% of Capital investment from 1983-88;  J2 thet-eatter , ptr quotation frow Public Wocks Department;
d/   50% of total, the rea-idor for longer term institutional development objoctives;
e/   50%, of total amount allocated to SSIIFC, the remaInder for overall d-sdrtl,t ona1 reqtirementr;
f/   Pro-rated, based on percentage of total costs represented by lmnd development and infrastructure improvernenco. snob--omponeots;
1/   Estimate of economic cost of land.  A, allocation of 64% of total land area of 31 ha was used.  Ground rent of D 4.50 per plot
per annum capitalized over 30 years at 12% with one time add on of registrrartion/srvey charges per plot (125) u1sed.
b/   Totals do not add due to rounding;
i/   D 181.69 in 30th year;
1/   D 1,261.20 average rent; D 372 for 1 room unit; D 2,758.24 in 50th year.



- 89-                                ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS / EXTENS IONS SUB-COMPONENT
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Aggregated Streams for Base Case
Total             Total             Net
Incremental       Incremental       Incremental
Periods      Benefits          Costs              Benefits
1                     0.0           1,835.9          -1,835.9
2                     0.0           3,196.9          -3,196.9
3                 1,200.5           2,751.2          -1,550.8
4                 3,121.3             865.3           2,255.9
5                 4,321.7             508.5           3,813.2
6                 4,801.9             278.2           4,523.7
7-30              4,801.9             217.6           4,584.3
Sensitivity Tests
NPV as a %
Present            of Present         Internal
Value of OCC       Costs at OCC       Rate of
Test Cases       Test Case Variations       of 12.%            of 12.0%            Return
Base Case                                        18,677.3           233.946%        39.316%
Test Case 1      C. Infra up 30%                 16,282.2           156.881%        31.350%
Test Case 2      C. Infra up 30%
B. Infra down 30%               8,283.9             79.817%        22.574%
Test Case 3      B. Infra down 30%               10,679.0           133.762%        28.817%
Sensitivity Analysis for Present Values
Discount
Rate             C. Infra         B. Infra
Appraisal Values           12.00          7,983.6         26,660.9
Switching Values           12.00         26,660.9          7,983.6
Percentage Change          12.00           233.9%           -70.1%



- 90 -                                   ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
LAND DEVELOPMENT SUB-COMPONENT
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Total             Total              Net
Incremental       Incremental        Incremental
Periods       Benefits          Costs              Benefits
1                     0.0              332.8             -332.8
2                      0.0             612.5             -612.5
3                      0.0           1,920.5          -1,920.5
4                   309.0            1,865.8          -1,556.8
5                   618.0            1,453.8            -835.8
6                   882.8              104.8              778.0
7-8                 882.8               73.7              809.1
9                   882.8            1,150.0             -267.1
10                1,111.6            1,150.0              -38.4
11                1,340.4            1,911.2             -570.8
12                1,731.0            1,137.7              593.3
13                1,957.2            1,150.0              807.2
14                2,186.0            1,911.2              274.7
15-29             2,576.6               73.7           2,502.8
30                2,758.2               73.7           2,684.5
SENSITIVITY TESTS
NPV as a %
Present            of Present          Internal
Value at OCC       Costs at OCC        Rate of
Test Cases       Test Case Variations         of 12.0%           of 12.0%            Return
Base Case                                          1,169.2             17.541%        14.351%
Test Case 1      C. Landev up 30%                   -830.5             -9.584%        10.628%
Test Case 2      C. Landev up 30%
B. Landev down 30%              -3,180.9            -36.709%          6.239%
Test Case 3      B. Landev down 30%               -1,181.2            -17.721%         9.402%
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS FOR PRESENT VALUES
Discount
Rate             C. Landev         B. Landev
Appraisal Values            12.00           6,665.6           7,834.8
Switching Values            12.00           7,834.8           6,665.6
Percentage Change           12.00              17.5%           -14.9%
SUMMARY ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS
Discount         Present           Present          Net Present         NPV as % of           Internal Rate
Rate             Benefits          Costs            Values              Present Costs         of Return
12.0          7,834.8         6,665.6               1,169.2                 17.5%               14.351%
Source: Mission calculations
8/25/83



THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Conditions
Some roads, such as the one shown above on the outshirts of Bakau, peter out into quagmires of mud and human waste. Lack of
housing credit has prevented many buildings, such as the one shown below (Bakau Nding) from being completed.






THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Conditions
Q
15~~~~~~1
a~~~
Rapid urbanization without sufficient investments In basic infrastructure, such as roads, makes accessto
areas such as the one shown above (in Bakau) difficult during the dry season, while lack of proper
drainage further aggravates the situation during the rains.






THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Conditions
Albert Market: Banjul
4~~~~
tgW  7is      -        -- 
Albert Market, which accounts for over 40% of retail trade in Banjul, wais built in 1858. It is overcrowded and in need of urgent
rehabilitation and improvements, especiallyofthe sanitaryfacilities (shown abandoned and surrounded by stalls, above), drainage,
structure, roofs and stalls (below).
W, 4,--- 






I BRD 1 715
CAMBAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJR %    MW                                                    OJWeaq"tAlap   capPBin
N ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ D
-  1 eLao r'   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coaet  104/055 ~ ~  ~          ~         ~        ~         A                                                                                                                C!A        01 
39~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~96
97       20,0/2             KOLGI                                                                                                - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                                          ER
K&dll P                                                                              t,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.yr  on
CEAN      -  '         /~~~~~~                                                             JSWN
/   4        .             -7    'C  /4  URBAN MANAGEMFNT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/a2JLO                                                                             NDKeSnKnJNO                                                                                            GREATER  BANJUL
-H  3.-PSRK    -  -'           RUNUNKA50IE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rsINoGo ~~~~PROJECT SITES
-~ ~ ~ ~  C\UNJANG~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 L]  ~~~~~AREAS TO BE UPGRADED
~~~25~~~~Da                    "           %~~~~~~~~~~~~'' ~~~~~~*\N~~~~~~~%                            7-                                                      PRO~~~~~~_0POSED  PIL.OTLAND DEVELOPMENT  SCHEME.
/1  (~~~~'l.~~~  '\z0ADRECOSNTRUCCION
NA  /  -       N  /N7tJKU~~TA         ,>    -                  _4,iA,~ATRI SABIJD!                 3 6                                                                                     MK ARKETf.nGRDN
4- /  /  -sanon--    on                                          41 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MR    TABO ~~~~KOtO      BŽ                 K                                                       OREHOLEO
"4  49747    PB  * ~~~~~~~-    -~~''-'    6                                     =        ~~~MAIN ROADS
I' ~~~~~7'                                            N157-705ere5~~~~~~~~~~M                      AN                 ' WE5' ,                                                                MANGROVE SWAMPS
*  ¶7       I                *         on             jjS   '        >                         -        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CITY COUNCIL BOUNDARY - BANJUL
4060  aS&§7/  t'~~~~~~~j  '  a oo'""-'"  >3~~~~~~~~t  1'~~~~  ~~                                      r         ;   ,IBANDISTRICT COUINCIL BOUNDARY-  KAN/ISAN
/  t  .u-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v~~~~~                                                                                                                 _________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTRATOALBUNA 
~~~  for DN{oYA  \    KaknjaaP  A      '  *      * L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A<   ~~~~~~~
-    na4-~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       LC-T-






EXISTING COMMUNITY CENTER                                                                                                            THE GAMBIA
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADING AREA
BAKAU
Esi sotin  Bituot iced Roads
F. Pistin  Roaido  P-o posed
To Be B teresed
Exl stingtRoiads To,Besimpro-ed
With La  .erite  Surface
.000.0     Proposed  Bollards
0       50       100      50      200     250
/~ YuOrem9Xa1Vm Iteeladeiotel VOO \~ \   \Oi0F/ tm, Ste olfTC,eH ~  Ct I                                    Ortet any  endoTFn P aePtCs Citttit,ite             M   ERSom






IB RD17198
rv ;:K 1 1-  -    Cx                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 198:
THE GAMBIA
:0{UID  -     URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADING AREA
SERE KUNDA
S n  . A  V     A= =    A  z BAKAU                      EXISTING BITUMINISED ROADS
az==  =-=                                   - -=BA KUNKU                              - . EXISTING BITUMINISED ROADS TO BE
UPGRADED
EXISTING EARTH ROADS TO BE
BITUMINISED
- _N   ?  * .   -    2           .J#F    AN=                                        EXISTING EARTH COLLECTOR ROADS TO
BE IMPROVED WITH LATERITE BASE
-EXISTING MINOR EARTH ROADS TO
SBE IMPROVED WITH LATERITE BASE
4, n   :iA   - -  i = /R  = '    : - @&EXISTING WATERMAINS
.    :. -.=-  --   PROPOSED WATERMAINS
*    =    == ;1EXISTING STANDPIPES
=  S .~   1    i  .  Q    T chnical | |    0  PROPOSED STANDPIPES
S t;3X   v=   t j AII l-TI L; J;X                             ~~~~~~~~~~RIVER
1 i?,                                                                     . .- ........  V;A  S A; t.............  METERS
F     LATRI
1=           KUNDA -
tt                                                                                                    >
V                                                           P
L                  Proposed Taxi             -                                               '        l
I             on~~~rd Bus Park         
Masrie(    KUNDA :                           
.-7;              =  I BO TOWN
-  X                ;  i   \ 5 t-                School                                     _p         _
At = art,c     y                      3555             -                                         , 
i:A,-'<)                                         t:;; 2dQ; ' A,p,                                     554'S  p,m.(.
V                    r2\ Yundu Internotonol :,   ,  ~  i   = 7 *    t _   btmabonillFweamnn7o
/ fudumo AIpor w 1 ';i ' d \i; Ii AI i apemaffon helua:sa]U
I   }               ;                                    |  ~~~~~ 0 * 1 G |  z soch holJndJrms~~~~~~~~~~X






IBR 17199
F                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JULY 1983
r-  TOSUKUTA                           THE GAMBIA
TO S     URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
B A NJ UL     RO0A D                                                       TOBKU          PILOT LAND DEVELOPMENT SCHEME
TO SERE KUNDA                                                                                                         TO BAKAU           Kaniing East: Plot Layout Plan
NEW ROADS OR ROADS TO BE IMPROVED
PEDESTRIAN ROUTES/AREAS
IIOPEN SPACE
i f X - |l A\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUBLIC FACILITIES
TYPICAL PLOT LAYOUT
NURSERY SCHOOLS
7]PRIMARY SCHOOLS
. _____________,0                                                                                                            50     100     150    200     250
M ETER S
Thaplh,~a~
asdotan W,t    d                                                                                                                TO BANJUL n shomm                                tIOfA
pYI-tdh.Wmd M  ad  .l  rOan






ABERD17349
I                                                                                                                                                                        -~~~~k  .u   . I. ...
7                                                                                              cc SAci WcccldEccccc  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SENGAL
s     E      N     E      G      A      L                                         _ c   m                            MA
Pc A ccc -c /ccIM ,-cA AM c i  . A-   *    . <GAU N I A
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AA                                                                                              iccLccccccATc J  c
F.                                                                                                                      D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA,R4*~'.~~"AA                  R
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <                                                          0 -<<  .--7&X=i><'t'29-   '''y  - 
,GX   Y uh  < _    S   ' *_( Monduar OJols Dumut r ._    ~   -/  >    ~'THE GAMBIA                              s          > EX9f              E   i 
jitalsilv  hujfmtbql9a z/4+ y 2--< \- s b s> | j BAN MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMEN PROJECT\,_-%~ 
S3'Vw0                                      ckiLcic  ,'Mt A    = fonryo Ad tE  a7ed) /    tm 17c'( M                        __________________4
NJ   ,c' M|d,c, Scc,cciE M/i.                                              5~b-'~  EMSiLHm  /cAicc~~ci  ~, ELK,  PAW LA ,.cd           N               EAcslccc, G1   Al A EdcGA L
I~~~                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ M\d, /c Ac,cc/ .
/ A   chLc          Af>ci or                     --   -' kZ geco                                                   13--   ;- .- -nho TH   A B A                               f  V E    A        cd



