Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13193-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
Crore Taka = 10 million Taka
Laklh Taka = 100,000 Taka
US$1   Tk 40.25
(April, 1995)
Fiscal Year (FY)
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
BRAC      -  Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
CBNC      -  Community-Based Nutrition Component
CNC       -  Community Nutrition Center
CNO       -  Community Nutrition Organizer
CNP       -  Community Nutrition Promoter
FAO       -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GMP       -  Growth Monitoring and Promotion
GTZ       -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -  International Development Association
IEC       -  Infornation, Education and Commnunication
ISNC      -  Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Cell
ISNF      -  Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Fund
Kcal      -  Kilocalories
KfW       -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOHFW   -  Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NGO       -  Non-Government Organization
OED       -  Operations Evaluation Department
PEM       -  Protein Energy Malnutrition
TOR       -  Terms of Reference
UNICEF  -  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID    -  United States Agency for International Development
VDP       -  Village Defence Party
WHO       -  World Health Organization



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Table of contents
1. SECTORAL BACKGROUND   ......                                          .............1..................... 
A.  Nutritional Situation  in  Bangladesh   ................................                                                                        1
B.  Current Programs    ..........................................                                                                                 5
C.   Main  Issues  in  Nutrition  and  the  Government's  Strategy  ...................                                                             8
D.   Role  of international agencies  other than  IDA    .........................    11
E.  Rationale  for IDA's  involvement   .................................    11
II.  THE  PROJECT   ..............................................                                                                                  ...        13
A.  Introduction   ..............................................                                                                                 13
B.  The  Conceptual Basis   ........................................                                                                              13
C.   Objectives and  Targets    ......................................                                                                            14
D.  Strategies    ...............................................                                                                                 15
E.  Project Description  ..........................................                                                                               17
F.  Geographic  Scope  and  Phasing    ..................................                                                                         23
G.  Gender Perspective    .........................................    24
H.   Environmental Aspects   .......................................                                                                              24
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT  ........ 25
A.  Project Costs    .............................................                                                                               25
B. Financing ................................................  26
C.   Procurement  ..............................................                                                                                  27
D.   Disbursements    ............................................                                                                                29
IV. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION  ...................  31
V.  BENEFITS  AND   RISKS   .......                                 ...........              .........................                                        34
A.  Benefits    ................................................                                                                                  34
B.  Risks    ..................................................                                                                                   35
C.   Sustainability    .............................................                                                                              35
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................  37
TABLES
1.1   Severe  and  Moderate  Malnutrition  in  children, by  Family  Income   .................                                                                 3
1.2  Prevalence of Stunting Among Children by Land Ownership  ....................    4
1.3   Prevalence  of Wasting  by  Age, Area  and  Gender    ...........................                                                                         5
3.1   Project Costs by  Component   .......................................                                                                                   25
3.2   Costs by  Categories of Expenditure   ...................................                                                                               25
3.3   Project Financing  Plan   ...........................................                                                                                   26
3.4   Procurement Methods    ...........................................                                                                                      27
3.5   Disbursement Categories  and  Percentages   ...............................                                                                             29
3.6   Project Disbursement Projections    ....................................                                                                                30



ii
ANNEXES                                                                                                Page No.
Annex  1:   Lessons incorporated from earlier projects on nutrition .......................    38
Annex 2:   Selection criteria - Sites for Community-Based Nutrition Component ..............    42
Annex  3:   Program Development and Institution Building ............................   43
Annex 4:   Information, Education and Communication (IEC)  .........................    47
Annex 5:   Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities . .............................                         52
Annex 6:   Monitoring and Evaluation  ........................................    67
Annex 7:   Community-Based Nutrition Component (CBNC) ..........................    76
Annex 8:   Training needs of the Project and related Issues .       ...........................   92
Annex 9:   Selection criteria - Community Nutrition Promoters .........................    96
Annex 10:  Selection criteria - Sub-projects Financed from the Inter-Sectoral Fund .............   98
Annex 11:  Detailed Project Costs ...........................................    99
Annex 12:  IDA Disbursement Schedule  .......................................   109
Annex 13:  Organizational Chart for Project Implementation ..........................    110
Annex 14:  Project Implementation Schedule ...................................    119
Annex 15:  Supervision Mission Schedule  .....................................                                122
Annex 16:  Table of Estimated Number of Direct Beneficiaries ........................    123
Annex 17:  List of documents in the Project files .................................                           125
This report is based on the findings of a Pre-Appraisal Mission which visited Bangladesh in January, 1994
and which was subsequently deemed to be an Appraisal Mission. The Mission was jointly fielded by IDA
and UNICEF. The IDA members were: Mr. S.K. Sudhakar (Mission Leader and the then Task-Manager),
Mr. S. Sundararjan (Current Task-Manager), Mr. Philip Gowers (Chief, Population and Health Office),
Mr. Richard Heaver (Senior Management Specialist), Ms. Gigliola Baruffi (Public Health Specialist),
Mr. Humayun Hye (Consultant, Public Health), and Mr. James Levison (Consultant, Agricultural
Economics). UNICEF members were: Mr. Urban Jonsson (then Senior Nutrition Adviser, UNICEF, New
York / currently Regional Director, UNICEF, Kathmandu), Mr. Rolf Carriere (UNICEF Representative to
Bangladesh), Mr. John Rohde (UNICEF Representative to India), Mr. Eric Laroche, Mr. Thane Myint, Mr.
lqbal Kabir and Mrs. Mira Mitra (Health & Nutrition Team, UNICEF, Dhaka). The report has been
endorsed by Mr. Paul Isenman (Director, Country Department 1, South Asia Region) and Mrs. Barbara Herz
(Chief, Population and Human Resources Division, Country Department 1, South Asia Region), who
provided valuable guidance in its preparation. Mr. J.P. Correia da Silva (Senior Legal Counsel), Mr. John
Fringer (Senior Procurement Specialist) and Mr. R. Wiratunga (Senior Disbursement Officer) provided inputs
to this report in their respective areas of expertise. Mrs. Jasbir Chhabra (Program Assistant) assisted with the
costing and Mrs. Juicy Zareen Qureishi-Huq (Staff Assistant) provided secretarial support. The Peer
Reviewers for this project were: Mr. Alan Berg (Senior Nutrition Adviser), Mr. James Greene (Principal
Nutrition Specialist) and Mr. George Plant (Special Adviser to Chief of Resident Mission in China).



iii
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Inplementing Agency: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW)
Beneficiary:        Not applicable
Poverty:            Program of Targeted Interventions. The Project would reduce poverty by improving
educability and productivity through better nutrition. It focuses on undernourished and
poor women and children. Beneficiaries would be selected on nutritional rather than
income criteria; but since the poorest, especially women, tend to suffer from severe
nutritional deficiencies, they would benefit most from the project.
Amount:             SDR 40.1 million. (US$59.8 million equivalent), including retro-active financing of
US$0.5 million to cover start-up costs of the Project Office.
Terms:             Standard with 40 years maturity.
Commitment fee:    0.50% on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after signing.
Onlending Terms:    Not applicable.
Objectives:        This six-year project will initiate development of a national nutrition program whose
long-term goal is to improve nutritional status so that malnutrition would eventually
cease to be a public health problem. The three intermediate objectives are: (i) national
capacity building; (ii) community empowerment for action against malnutrition; and
(iii) to achieve measurable nutritional impact in areas exposed to all components.
Description:        The project will have three components: A. National Level Nutrition Activities.
This component will have four sub-components: (i) Program Development and
Institution Building, to develop national capacity in nutrition and to promote needed
policy  research  and  operations  research;  (ii) Information,  Education  and
Communication (IEC) Development to assess current behavioral aspects relevant to
nutrition and develop appropriate messages and materials for use in IEC activities
through inter-personal methods at the community level and through the mass media at
the national level; (iii) Strengthening of Existing Nutrition Activities, particularly by
expanding and improving the effectiveness of efforts to control micronutrient
deficiencies and by strengthening the current initiative to promote breast-feeding; and
(iv) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation to help finance a Project Office
and carry out baseline surveys, a mid-term review, and a final evaluation based on
sound methods and measurable indicators for processes, inputs, and outcomes related
to the project's objectives; B. Community-Based Nutrition Component (CBNC),
focusing on Growth Monitoring and Promotion activities with targeted and supervised
supplementary feeding at the village level in community nutrition centers, which would
serve as a locus for inter-personal Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
and mobilization of community actions to promote nutrition. This component would
be phased in gradually, beginning in six thanas in the first year (including a pilot
intervention of an experimental targeting strategy which entails special nutritional and
health services to newly wed couples and their first child), and after a review of the
first two years' experience, adding 17 more thanas in each of the third and fourth
years, for a total of 40 thanas; C. Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Program Development,
to improve nutrition through efforts beyond the scope of CBNC, by emphasizing



iv
nutritional aspects of activities in various sectors and by supporting innovative actions
with potential nutrition impact. An Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Fund would be established.
Sub-project proposals meeting agreed criteria, from Government or Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), would be financed from the fund after being cleared by an
Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Cell in MOHFW and by IDA.
Benefits:           The project would help to: (i) increase the Government's capacity to formulate a sound
national nutrition program and to implement it effectively; (ii) improve the nutritional
and health status of children under two years of age and of women; (iii) increase child
survival and thereby strengthen the demand for family planning services; (iv) prevent
permanent damage in children, resulting in a healthier population in the long-term;
(v) increase the learning capacity of children and the productivity of the present and
future citizens of Bangladesh; and (vi) improve women's social status through a special
focus on them.
Risks:              The project faces three principal risks. (i) The country now has limited capacity to
implement nutrition activities. The project seeks to reduce this risk in several ways.
It would phase the introduction of the Main nutritional intervention, while working to
expand implementation capability. It would support a strong Project Office to ensure
effective project implementation and include a component for Program Development
and Institution Building. The project also includes an intensive involvement of NGOs
in project execution. Technical assistance will also be provided by UNICEF and by
Institute of Nutrition, University of Mahidol, Thailand.  (ii) Coordinating and
implementing activities undertaken through different ministries under the Inter-Sectoral
Component could pose difficulties. To mitigate this risk, the project would require the
establishment of an Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Cell within the Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare as well as substantive inputs from the respective ministries; the project
would also involve NGOs with relevant field experience in the preparation and
implementation of inter-sectoral sub-projects. (iii) There is a risk that volunteers might
be ineffective as Community Nutrition Promoters and Community Nutrition
Organizers.  The project would minimize this risk through strong training and
supervision at the field level, particularly through NGOs.
Estimated Costs (including contingencies):                Local       Foreign          Total
------------- (US$ million) ---------------
National Level Nutrition Activities                        18.2           2.4          20.6
Conmmunity-Based Nutrition Component                       38.9           0.2          39.1
Inter-sectoral Nutrition Program Development                7.3           0.3           7.6
Total                                                      64.4           2.9          67.3
Financing Plan:
Financier
Government                                           7.5           0.0           7.5
IDA                                                 56.9           2.9          59.8
TOTAL                                               64.4           2.9          67.3
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ Millions):
FY           1996       1997        1998       1999        2000         2001
Annual                           3.3         3.6        9.6       14.6        14.1         14.6
Cumulative                       3.3        6.9        16.5       31.1        45.2         59.8
Net Present Value:  Not Applicable



v
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Basic Data
Low-income
Most Recent       South       Countries
1970         1990       Estimate        Asia     Worldwide
GNP per Capita (US$)     100.0        210.0         220.0        320.0         350.0
POPULATION AND
VITAL STATISTICS
Population (million)      66.7        106.7         115.0       1,152.2      3,127.3
Crude Birth Rate          48.0         35.0          34.0         32.0          30.0
(per thousand)
Crude Death Rate          21.0         14.0          13.0         11.0          10.0
(per thousand)
Sex Ratio                 92.8         94.9          94.9         93.6          95.6
(females/100 males)
Population Density
(Per sq. km. of
total land)             463.0        740.7         768.0         224.5         80.5
Total Fertility Rate       7.0          4.6           4.4          4.2           3.8\a
Contraceptive
Prevalence Rate           7.7\b       31.4          45.1\c
POPULATION
AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0 - 14 Years              45.4         42.9          42.3         38.0          35.4
15 - 64 Years            51.1          54.0         56.8          57.7          60.6
65 and above               3.5          3.1           0.9          4.3           4.0
URBANIZATION
Urban Population           5.1         18.7          22.5        314.7
(million)
As a percentage
of Total Population        7.6         17.5          20.3         26.4          39.0
HEALTH
Life Expectancy
at Birth (years)
Female                 44.0         51.0          52.0          59.0          58.0
Male                   46.0         52.0          53.0          59.0         61.0
Infant Mortality
Rate (per 1,000 live
births)                 140           105          103            92           71
Maternal Mortality
Rate (per 1,000
births)                   -           6\d          6\e             4.4          3



vi
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Basic Data (Continued)
Low-income
South           Countries
1970          1990          Asia          Worldwide
EDUCATION
School Enrollment (%)
Primary School
Female                        35             68           75                 98
Total                         54             73           88                105
Secondary School
Female                         -             11           29                 34
Total                          -             17           39                 41
NUTRITIONAL STATUS
1985          1989       Most Recent            South
-1986         -1990          Estimate             Asia
Prevalence of Stunting'
(% Children 6-71 mths)         68.7            65.5           64.2
Prevalence of Underweight2
(% Children 6-71 mths)         71.5            66.5           68.3               58.5
Prevalence of Wasting3
(% Children 6-71 mths)          14.8           14.7           16.7
FOOD AVAILABILITY
AT NATIONAL LEVEL
(Metric Tons)
1985           1989       Most Recent          South
-1986         -1990          Estimate            Asia
Total food requirement          16.6           18.5
Net Food Production             14.5           16.9
Food Gap                         2.4            1.7
Energy availability
(Calories/day/capita)         1868           1922                             2245
1   Height for age below the reference median by 2 or more standard deviations.
2   Weight for age below the reference median by 2 or more standard deviations
3   Weight-for-Height below the reference median by 2 or more standard deviations



vii
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Basic Data (Continued)
Notes: Most recent estimate is for 1991 unless specified.
\a Excluding China and India TFR is 5.2.
\b Data are for 1975.
\c Data are for 1994.
\d Data are for 1980.
\e Data are for 1988.
Sources:
Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, Report of the Child Nutritional Status Survev, 1989-90 and 1992
World Bank, World Development Report, 1984,1989,1990,1992, and 1993.
World Bank, Asia Technical Department,Population Issues in Asia, Department Series No.5,
September, 1993.
World Bank, Social Indicators of Development, 1993.
World Bank, World Tables, 1993.
World Bank, World Population Projections, 1992-93 Edition.
World Bank, Bangladesh The Determinants of Reproductive Change. Population and Health Sector
Study, Population and Human Resources Division, Country Department 1, December, 1992.
World Bank, Bangladesh. Selected Issues in External Competitiveness and Economic Efficiency,
Country Operations,Industry and Finance Division, South Asia Country Department 1, March, 1992.
Mitra and Associates, Bangladesh Contraceptive Prevalence Survey, 1989, and 1991, Dhaka,
Bangladesh.
NIPORT/MITRA and Associates, Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey. 1993-1994.
Preliminary Report, Dhaka, Bangladesh, 1994.
United Nations Population Fund, South Asia Study of Population Polico and Programs: Bangladesh,
Dhaka, Bangladesh, 1990.
United Nations, World Urbanization Prospects: The 1992 Revision, New York, 1993.






BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Nutrtional Situation in Bangladesh
1.1          General Background. Bangladesh is a tropical riverine country of about 115 million people.
The population density of this country is the highest in the world, excluding city states like Hong Kong
and Singapore. The country's economy is largely agrarian but 53% of the population are landless and
the prevalence of absolute poverty (inability to afford a daily intake of 1805 calories) rose from 22% in
1985-86 to 27% in 1988-89. Recent investigations appear to indicate that overall poverty (inability to
afford a daily intake of 2100 calories) might be declining but absolute poverty levels have not fallen. It
is one of the least developed countries in the world with a Gross Domestic Product of US$220 per capita.
The poor health status of Bangladesh is evidenced by infant, under-five and matemal mortality rates of
103, 180 and 6 respectively, per 1,000 live-births. The literacy rate is only 35 % with the female literacy
rate being even lower at 22%. Most of the women work in their households and have little decision-
making power. All these facts point to the existence of an overall climate conducive to undemutrition,
particularly among women and young children.
1.2          Major Nutritional Problems. Bangladesh suffers from some of the severest malnutrition
problems in the world. The primary forms of malnutrition found in Bangladesh are: childhood
undernutrition in the form of protein-energy malnutrition (PEM)'; all-round maternal undernutrition as
evidenced by low weight, short stature and anemia in pregnant and lactating women; and disorders of
micronutrient deficiencies, particularly among all ages of Vitamin A, iron and iodine. The effects of
childhood undernutrition, beginning with a low birth weight (estimated to occur among 35-50% of births
in Bangladesh) continue into adulthood, particularly among the females whose malnutrition is compounded
by the strains of adolescence, maternity, and lactation.
1.3          The prevalence of PEM among children is very high, and has remained almost the same for
the last decade. Thirty three percent of all children under six years of age are severely stunted and
another 31.2% moderately stunted2. As many as 68.3% of the children are under-weight' and 16.7%
wasted4, the highest rates in Asia. Malnutrition plays a role in about two-thirds of under-five deaths; of
these, 73 % are related to mild and moderate malnutrition. Given the greatly disadvantaged start by way
of a low birth-weight followed by inadequate breast-feeding by their undernourished mothers, average
Bangladeshi infants are already below the lower end of the range of anthropometric values found among
Western babies during the first three to six months.  The late and insufficient introduction of
Protein-Energy Malnutrition (PEM) is the most widespread form of malnutrition among young children, arising from a
deficiency of both proteins and energy (calories). It manifests itself as Kwashiorkor or Marasmus in its severest
forms but the majority of the cases which fall in the mild or moderate categories often go unrecognized unless the
child is weighed. The first indicator of PEM is under-weight for age.
2  Stuntinc refers to reduced height for age, which is a sign of retarded growth due to chronic malnutrition - often
accompanied (in its severest forms) by retarded mental development as well. Stunting is defined as severe if height-
for-age is less than the reference median by 3 standard deviations or more and moderate if between 2 and 2.99
standard deviations.
3  Weight-for-age below the reference median by 2 or more standard deviations.
4  Wastiln is a sign of PEM, which refers to loss of muscle mass resulting in a "skin and bone" appearance - generally
assessed by the ratio of weight to height.



2
complementary feeding further retards the infant's growth; usually the child does not pick up its pace of
growth before two years of age. By then, it is too late to reverse the early growth lag which persists
throughout life and similarly some of the damages done to mental development are irreparable. The
weight-for-age curve of Bangladeshi children continues to lie below the third percentile of the Harvard
Standard, though it runs roughly parallel to the standard from around the second year of life onward; the
older children cope better with the adverse milieu of a food-insecure and unhealthy household, while
being unable to regain lost ground.
1.4        Maternal Malnutrition.  The nutritional status of women is not well-documented in
Bangladesh but the average weight and height of women are 39-41 kilograms and 147-148 centimeters
respectively, indicating significant levels of undernutrition. Mothers' weight gain during pregnancy is
poor and after delivery they end up losing about 1 kilogram as compared to the pre-pregnancy weight.
Iron and folic acid deficiencies afflict pregnant and lactating women particularly severely, leading to
anemia (para 1.5). As the Bangladeshi women bear and nurture children out of their already depleted
bodies more frequently than the women in the developed world, their situation is even more poignant.
1.5        About 70% of mothers and children in Bangladesh suffer from nutritional deficiency anemia.
Studies in Matlab conducted by the International Center for Diarrheal Disease Research have shown that
25% of maternal deaths are associated with anemia and hemorrhage. Maternal anemia significantly
contributes to intra-uterine growth retardation leading to low-birth weight babies. Anemia in infancy and
childhood greatly reduces the cognitive abilities essential to the mental development of the growing child.
1.6        Vitamin A deficiency leads to xerophthalmia in children, and an estimated 30,000
Bangladeshi children go blind each year due to this deficiency. The prevalence of night blindness, an
early sign of vitamin A deficiency, is as high as 1.7%. Vitamin A is also known to provide protection
from infectious diseases in children. Besides leading to morbidity, Vitamin A deficiency also contributes
significantly to childhood mortality by increasing the severity of infectious diseases resulting in higher
case fatality rates.
1.7        Iodine Deficiency Disorders pose a major risk for the physical and mental development of
the people living in iodine deficient environments in Bangladesh. The food grains and fish from the
iodine deficient soil and water particularly in the northern region of Bangladesh contribute to the
hyperendemicity of iodine deficiency disorders in these areas. Iodine deficiency causes cretinism and
mental retardation in children. About 10.5% of Bangladeshi population suffer from goiter and an
estimated 60% of the people living in hyperendemic areas are affected. Two million under-five children
suffer from iodine deficiency disorders. Another 20 million children and women are considered to be
at risk. Intake of foods low in iodine is the primary cause of iodine deficiency disorders. The high
physiological needs for thyroxin during pregnancy increase the risk of iodine deficiency disorders among
women. The intake of goitrogenic foods also hinders utilization of dietary iodine.
1.8        Determinants of Malnutrition.  All the known causes of malnutrition are at play in
Bangladesh. These determinants are grouped commonly under the heads of food insecurity, poor health
conditions (and insufficient access to good health care services) and inappropriate household feeding
and eating practices (caring practices or "care" for short). Inadequate dietary intake of energy, proteins,
vitamin A, iodine, iron and other micronutrients constitutes the primary and most direct cause of
malnutrition in Bangladesh as elsewhere. There has been a downward trend in per capita intake of
calories over time resulting in widespread chronic dietary deficiency. At present, the average energy
intake is only 80% of Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) recommendation (2,310 kilo calories
per person per day). Such low intake has been attributed, inter alia, to inadequate food supply, poverty
and lack of education. Moreover, diseases that affect dietary intake by reducing appetite and/or decrease



3
absorption of nutrients, e.g., diarrhoea, respiratory infections and parasitic infestations, are widely
prevalent in Bangladesh.
1.9        As for food availability, food balance sheet studies show a gradual decrease of average
energy available per capita per day from 2,250 kilocalories (Kcal) in 1962-64 to 1,860 in 1983-85,
followed by a slight increase to 1,927 in 1986. Considering the rapid population growth, it is surprising
that per capita energy availability has not declined even more than it has; this is probably due to
impressive gains in agricultural production, particularly in the case of rice. The successes in rice
cultivation have been accompanied by decreased production of minor cereals, pulses, oilseeds and fruits
resulting in a nutritional imbalance in terms of national food production5. Moreover, the statistics on
supply depict only part of the food security situation; the picture described is based on production data
not on consumption patterns.  Disparities in purchasing power evidently lead to greatly unequal
distribution of available food, and averages mask worse deficiencies in actual calorie intake by the less
fortunate populations.  Important gaps remain between production and consumption, since food
availability at the national level is no guarantee of household food security and even the latter does not
necessarily result in equitable food distribution within the household.
1.10       Tables 1.1 and 1.2 show the relationship of childhood PEM with family income and land
ownership as observed by the most recent child nutrition survey of 1992 carried out by the Bangladesh
Bureau of Statistics. These relationships are shown for stunting which indicates chronic malnutrition and
wasting which reflects severe acute PEM. While the prevalence of stunting decreases with increased per
capita income and increased land ownership, nearly 30 % of even the highest income group and over 35 %
of those who own more than 5 acres show stunting. Income and land ownership do not show any clear
relationship with wasting. The report of the most recent survey by the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
does not present data on the relationship of income and land ownership with the third indicator of
malnutrition, namely weight- for-age but the previous survey of 1989-90 showed that almost 55 % of the
highest income group were underweight! In summary, these data clearly show that malnutrition in
Bangladesh is not limited to the poor food-insecure households.
Table 1.1: Malnutrition in Children by Per-Capita Income, 1992
Annual Income per   Stunting (< = 2    Wasting (< = 2 SD)
capita (Taka)           SD)
< 4,000                     54.6                  7.0
4,000 - 4,999                 48.6                   4.7
5,000-5,999                   52.7                   8.7
6,000 - 7,999                 39.5                   7.7
8000+                      28.4                   7.3
Source: Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (1994): Report of Child Nutrition Survey of Bangladesh 1992
z Statistical Year-book of Bangladesh, 1991.



4
Table 1.2: Prevalence of Stunting Among Children by Land Ownership, 1992
Household Total    Stunting       Wasting
Land (Acres)         %             %
< 0.05             43.2        6.5
0.05 - 1.00          50.8        7.6
1.00 - 2.50          42.9        7.4
2.50 - 5.00          31.8        2.7
5.0 +              35.2        5.2
Source: Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (1994): Report of Child Nutrition Survey of Bangladesh 1992
1.11       Health and Environment. The well-known interaction between infection and malnutrition
is amply evident among Bangladeshi children. A recent survey showed that approximately a fourth of
the children had at least one diarrheal episode in the three months preceding the survey.  The
International Center for Diarrhoeal Disease Research found that children suffering from diarrhea are twice
as likely to suffer from acute malnutrition as those without diarrhea and the risk of severe wasting
increased with the number of episodes. About 75 % of the child's life is spent in illness mostly due to
infections. The chief immediate causes of death in infancy are diarrhea, respiratory infections and
neonatal tetanus. Low birth weights and malnutrition potentiate the death risks of these diseases.
Roughly two-thirds of under-five deaths are due to such potentiation, 75 % of it being associated with mild
and moderate malnutrition.
1.12       Age differentials. Table 1.3 shows the distribution of stunting and wasting by age groups
among the male and female children of Bangladesh. These data on the relationship of malnutrition with
age are very telling, indeed; not only do they point to the age at which the problem is best dealt with,
they also provide insights into the role of behavioral aspects (para 1.13) in causing malnutrition in
Bangladesh. Both acute and chronic PEM show a marked rise in the age group 12-23 months; but while
wasting declines after that, stunting stays at about the same level. Such difference between the younger
and older children is mainly explained by three facts: (i) the younger children are to be fed, while the
older ones eat; thus the older children better manage to overcome acute malnutrition but are unable to
reverse the earlier losses; (ii) poor maternal nutritional status is an important determinant of malnutrition
in the young infant but as the child grows, his/her nutrition is less affected by the mother's nutritional
status and (iii) much of the losses incurred in growth and development (physical and mental) are not
recoverable after two years of age. These observations provide the strongest basis yet for targeting
nutrition interventions on pregnant and lactating mothers and on younger children.
1.13       Caring Practices. The observation that some of the older children improve their weight,
despite the fact that they need more food than the younger ones, makes it difficult to explain childhood
malnutrition purely on the basis of lack of food in the household. Together with the weak relationship
between malnutrition and income levels (para 1.10), these data argue strongly that behaviors related to
feeding of young children have at least as much (if not more) to do with the serious problem of
malnutrition in Bangladesh as poverty and the resultant household food insecurity do. Most children are
breast-fed up to one to two years of age, but breast-feeding is often combined with bottle-feeding,
increasing the risk of diarrhoeal episodes. Colostrum is rejected by 60-90% of mothers; exclusive breast-



5
feeding up to 6 months hardly exists; and 60% of hospitalized malnourished children are bottle-fed.
Weaning practices are poor and complementary food is generally inadequate with low nutrient density.
The frequency and manner of breast-feeding also affect the quantity of milk consumed by the infant.
Behavioral factors have a considerable influence on maternal nutrition as well, in view of the cultural
beliefs supplying reduced eating during pregnancy, the fact that the woman of the family usually eats last
and least and the lack of equity between the girls and the boys in terms of access to household resources,
not the least of which is food.
Table 1.3: Prevalence of Stunting and Wasting by Age, and Gender
Age Group         Stunting            Wasting
(months)    Males   Females   Males   Females
6-11       36.3      33.0       5.9       8.1
12-23      71.1       61.2      24.1      25.7
24-35       53.5      67.5      24.6      24.5
36-47      67.0       69.5      13.6      13.2
48-59      64.7       73.1      12.5      12.7
60-71      74.9       70.8      13.8      12.8
Total      62.8       65.6      16.5      16.9
Source: Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (1994): Report of the Child Nutrition Survey, 1992
1.14       Among women as well as children, while food availability and health status are important
factors affecting nutrition, caring practices-feeding (including breast-feeding), culture-specific
consumption practices (particularly by women), intra-household food distribution, personal hygiene-
constitute the most significant, hitherto unaddressed set of nutritional determinants in Bangladesh.
B. Current Programs
1.15       Although there is no separate Government program to deal with malnutrition in Bangladesh,
considerable investments are being made in programs which directly or indirectly seek to address factors
that impact on nutritional status.  The Bangladesh National Nutrition Council consisting of senior
administrators, policy makers and nutritionists from different concerned ministries and agencies was
established to oversee the development of a nutrition policy and coordinate nutrition activities across the
relevant sectors. But so far the Council has not been very effective, partly due to inadequate resources
and lack of authority. Recently the Prime Minister has agreed to chair the National Nutrition Council,
raising the expectation that nutrition might get its long overdue share of attention. The national aspiration
for "basic food ("Daal, Bhaat") for everyone" needs to be expanded to include good nutrition, which
requires more than just food.
1.16       Programs aiming to ensure household food security directly by providing subsidized food
supplements to vulnerable population groups or indirectly through enhancing food production or income
transfer strategies are being carried out under the Ministries of Relief and Rehabilitation, Agriculture and
Food. Investments in enhancing food supply in Bangladesh have yielded fairly good results; crop
diversification, more efficient distribution systems and land ownership reforms are some further steps
which could be beneficial. Besides. programs such as Homestead Garden Promotion under the Ministry



6
of Agriculture add to household food security. Programs aiming at income/food transfer to the weaker
sections of society have been operating with variable effectiveness and at considerable cost. Examples
of such programs undertaken by the Government are: Vulnerable Group Development, Rural Maintenance
Program, Food for Work schemes and the Palli Rationing Scheme (recently dismantled due to its serious
problem of leakage). More recently, a Food for Education scheme has also been introduced. One of the
drawbacks of all these efforts is that they are currently not targeted based on nutritional vulnerability.
They are either national level investments (such as enhancing overall food production) or when they are
targeted, the selection criteria are generally landlessness, low income or destitution among women. While
these are reasonable proxy indicators of undernutrition, direct targeting based on nutritional criteria would
clearly be more precise, though operationally more difficult; also, in some schemes the targeting has been
to men, because these schemes have been designed around construction projects typically employing men.
Such projects are also limited by the fact that construction work is generally not carried out during
seasons when food insecurity is greatest. Another aspect of these programs which needs improvement
is to ensure that the food reaches the intended beneficiaries; leakage of varying degrees exists in all these
programs, since none of them carries out supervised on-the-spot feeding. Lastly, as discussed before,
income transfers do not necessarily translate into increased food consumption or improved nutrition, least
of all among the women and children, in view of the strong male decision-making tradition which is
universal in Bangladesh households, as in the rest of the region. Thus there is a clear need to reorient
and retarget some of these investments in food security if they were to have the desired nutritional
impact. The feasibility and cost-effectiveness of such nutritional targeting and reorientation need to be
ascertained.
1.17       The successes of green revolution technologies has led to more rice availability at lower
prices, with the potential for increased access to food for the poor. The time has come, therefore, to
focus national nutrition efforts on household feeding and caring practices; improvements in these practices
could help ensure full nutritional benefits of the said increase in food security.
1.18       The health and family welfare programs aim to provide primary health care and family
planning services to the rural communities through a network of Thana Health Complexes, Rural
Dispensaries and Union Health & Family Welfare Centers. About 45% of the population have access
to some health care facilities albeit lacking in quality and consequently under-utilized. Since 1982, in an
effort to improve the access to the Health and family planning services, satellite clinics have been
organized by female field workers to provide a range of maternal and child health and family planning
services. Recent improvements in primary health care activities include: better management of diarrhea
with mothers being trained to prepare home-made oral rehydration solution and a successful Expanded
Program of Immunization with a coverage of more than 65 % of children with full immunization. The
contraceptive prevalence rate is about 45 %. Further improvements are needed in terms of access to more
effective and better quality health care, especially Maternal and child health, so as to make sure that the
health dimension of the nutritional pre-requisites is satisfactorily fulfilled.
1.19       In terms of water supply and sanitation, at present about 85 % of the households have access
to tube-well for drinking water compared to only 45 % in the 80's. However, around 46% use surface
water for domestic purposes. Open space is used by 84% of the households for waste disposal and less
than 10% use sanitary toilets. The challenge now is to educate the rural populations on appropriate
behaviors related to personal hygiene and environmental sanitation which in turn affect the health and
nutrition status.



7
1.20       To control vitamin A deficiency and its consequences, GOB instituted the Nutritional
Blindness Prevention Program in 1973. High potency Vitamin A capsules are distributed twice a year
to children 6 months to 6 years of age throughout the country. While this program is supposed to cover
the whole country, in practice less than half the children have received the benefit of this program.
Recently, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued a directive to combine vitamin A
supplementation with immunization services. This integration is expected to help increase the Vitamin
A coverage levels among young children. Ultimately, the solution to the problem of vitamin A deficiency
lies in increasing the availability and consumption of green leafy and yellow vegetables and fruits. The
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council has developed a number of improved production technologies
in this regard. The Homestead Vegetable Production Program of Ministry of Agriculture is implemented
in 100 Thanas.
1.21       Through the satellite clinics pregnant women receive iron and folic acid tablets. A program
for the control of intestinal parasites has also been included under the Fourth Population and Health
Project, currently being financed by a consortium of donors led by IDA. The reduction of intestinal
parasites, particularly that of hook-worm infestation, would help control nutritional anemia. Options for
fortifying appropriate foods with iron and Vitamin A need to explored.
1.22       The long-term strategy to control iodine deficiency is through universal iodization of salt.
The required legal framework is in place but effective enforcement of the law is still a difficult challenge.
The Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation and the Bangladesh Standards and Testing
Institution are responsible for the production and quality control of iodized salt for purposes of marketing.
The iodized salt production is being undertaken with the support of the United Nations Children's Fund
(UNICEF) and under the Fourth Population and Health Project. To provide an immediate short-term
control measure against iodine deficiency disorders, GOB embarked on a campaign to administer
injectable iodine (lipiodol) in 1985. Thus far approximately 65% of the target population (males 0-15
years and females 0-45 years) have received the injection in 30 hyperendemic subdistricts. A proposal
to switch from injections to capsules has been shelved since the program is not expected to continue once
universal salt iodization is achieved.
1.23       A few Non-Government Organizations (NGO) have been active in the field of nutrition,
some directly, but most as part of their child care, health care or rural development activities. Most
notable of these are Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC), Helen Keller International,
CARE and Save the Children Fund. In particular, a recent pilot intervention undertaken by BRAC in
one thana (Muktagacha) is very relevant to the approach being proposed in this project (para 1.38). By
virtue of their small size and their style of operations, NGOs have generally found it easier to promote
community empowerment and other innovations. Similarly, within their limited scope of activity, NGOs
have developed useful expertise and experience, and would be a significant resource to any major effort
against malnutrition. Particular areas where NGOs have been found to possess strong potential are:
community mobilization, training of field-level workers, quick field-testing of operational techniques,
development and delivery of Information, Education and Communication (IEC) messages, inter-sectoral
coordination (between the sectors that a given NGO is involved in), logistics of supplying commodities
on time and maintaining adequate stock levels and project management. Two limitations in relying on
NGOs for providing nutrition services are: (i) NGO presence covers a small part of rural Bangladesh and
their capacity is typically limited to activities in small well-defined areas; no one NGO could possibly
cover the whole of Bangladesh with an intensive nutrition program of the type envisaged; such a project
would have to be primarily a GOB venture, with the help of several interested NGOs in areas where this
is feasible; (ii) almost all the NGOs in Bangladesh are currently totally dependent on foreign assistance
and could simply collapse if and when such assistance is withdrawn; this raises concerns of sustainability,
unless GOB owns the project activities and is fully committed to their implementation with NGO support.



8
After a careful consideration of the benefits and risks, it was decided that active NGO participation would
be beneficial to the proposed project and is contemplated in a major way.
C. Main Issues in Nutritwon and the Government's Strategy
1.24        The place of nutrition in national development has long received less attention than it
deserves. The appreciation of the development consequences of malnutrition and its causation, and the
awareness of available solutions have, until recently, not been uniformly accurate or extensive among the
policy-makers and decision-makers of Bangladesh. Moreover, interventions impacting on nutrition status
have, of necessity, been scattered across various ministries and/or departments; these sectoral actions have
not been coordinated through a single agency responsible for nutrition. Though the Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare (MOHFW) has been formally identified by the Rules of Business as being responsible
for nutrition, it was not given a clear authority to coordinate nutrition-related actions across sectors.
Most activities impinging on nutrition have been carried out primarily with goals other than nutritionper
se: say, to improve agricultural production for economic reasons or to enhance food availability (not
necessarily to improve nutrition). This fact has meant that the agencies carrying out such programs were
not always aware of their nutritional import. As for MOHFW itself, its contribution to nutrition has been
mainly through the health dimension, e.g., control of childhood infections and provision of maternal care,
apart from a few specific micronutrient interventions. A comprehensive national program of nutrition
has so far not been embarked upon in spite of attempts to establish a "coordinated nutrition program"
under the Bangladesh National Nutrition Council and a "comprehensive nutrition project" under the
Institute of Public Health Nutrition; neither of these came to fruition because the institutions concerned
have lacked the necessary expertise or mandate. As a result, within the complex of nutrition issues,
substantial areas have remained unaddressed.
1.25       Incomplete understanding of the causation of malnutrition. As in most developing countries,
the predominant perception in Bangladesh has been that malnutrition is the result of poverty and
household food insecurity. The extent of poverty, landlessness, underemployment, population density
and proneness to natural disasters confirm and strengthen this perception. Some appreciation of the role
of health conditions in determining nutritional status has existed but there has been, until recently, very
little recognition of the third dimension, i.e., caring practices. This incomplete understanding of
determinants of malnutrition by politicians and policy-makers, and even by some nutritionists in
Bangladesh, has seriously skewed the country's efforts to combat malnutrition in the direction of tackling
poverty and food insecurity with no community-based interventions aimed at behavioral change. A
clearer analysis of causation of malnutrition would also lead to a better targeting of such interventions;
though malnutrition is highly prevalent among under-five children and to a significant extent among
school children and adults, the intervention that is likely to bring the most benefits would be that on
children 0-24 months and on women; such a targeting strategy was not adopted in Bangladesh prior to
this project's preparation.
1.26        Incomplete appreciation of the consequences of malnutrition. The magnitude and seriousness
of the implications of PEM as well as micro-nutrient deficiencies in terms of: a) infant, child and
maternal morbidity and mortality; b) the incomplete emotional, intellectual and cognitive development
of children, and their reduced ability to learn; and c) the lowered productivity of adults in the labor force,
were not fully appreciated. Besides, the fact that the burden of malnutrition on the health care system
leads to a drain on the economy has often been missed. Recent research results, showing that even the
so-called 'moderate' malnutrition has significant adverse effects on morbidity and mortality need to be
more widely known. Thus, while malnutrition is acknowledged to be widespread, its significance as a
constraint to national development has been thus far underestimated. Unless one focuses on the
development impact of malnutrition, particularly on the lower educability and productivity, the
opportunity costs of not investing in better nutrition are not obvious.



9
1.27        Weak institutional base for nutrition.  Several institutes, councils and committees in
Bangladesh have been engaged in various nutrition-related activities. Examples of these institutions are:
the Bangladesh National Nutrition Council, the Institute of Public Health Nutrition, the Institute of
Nutrition and Food Sciences and the Institute of Food Sciences and Technology. But, for the most part,
the generally poor commitment to nutrition at higher levels has resulted in scant resources and a lack of
adequate staff for these institutions and limited exposure to global nutrition experiences has led to a less
than full development of local expertise; the roles and mandates of these institutions have been
overlapping with each other and unclear; none of them has been given sufficient authority or
responsibility for program implementation; they have not had much impact in increasing or rationalizing
investments to combat malnutrition, or in making current nutrition-related programs more effective. Until
recently therefore, insufficient advocacy has led to low awareness and commitment in turn resulting in
inadequate resources to build a constituency for nutrition in Bangladesh.
1.28        The nutrition investment gap. Much as the causation or consequences of malnutrition have
been ill-understood, there has been a lack of awareness about what could be done to prevent or reduce
malnutrition. A general sense of resignation has prevailed that until poverty is eradicated malnutrition
is bound to persist. Until recently, it was not recognized that investment in well-conceived nutrition
programs can have high returns and such recognition is still not universal. Besides the overall low
priority accorded to nutrition, there is a significant investment gap within nutrition. Investment has
focussed on achieving self-sufficiency in the basic staple foods (rice and, more recently, wheat); and on
food aid to "economically vulnerable groups" of population. While the value of such investments in
agriculture and food programs and health services and the continued need to strengthen and expand them
are unquestionable, there has been practically no investment in programs to improve caring practices at
the household level. One of the central issues sought to be addressed by this project is this investment
gap in the areas of caring practices. Caring practices would be improved through: education and
mobilization of communities to understand the causes and consequences of malnutrition and to enable
them to combat it; and the counseling of individual families so that the women eat better and young
children are fed better.
l
1.29       Inequitable and inefficient targeting of food programs. Since the late 1980s, much of the
monies spent on food aid, food subsidies, and food-for-work schemes in Bangladesh have been
inequitably targeted. 70-95 % of the US$60 million spent annually on the recently withdrawn rural ration
scheme, were estimated to have been lost by system leakage6. The remaining food programs operate at
an estimated annual cost of about US$ 250 million, not including the newly announced Food for
Education scheme. Considerable resources are also being spent on food subsidies for civil servants, the
police, and the military - population groups which are not necessarily the most food-insecure. Even
where food schemes are aimed at the disadvantaged, it has been impossible to target food aid at the
malnourished, because there is no institutionalized system to monitor the weight and growth of the
nutritionally vulnerable. Targeting has therefore often been based on estimates of income or landlessness,
characteristics that do not fully cover nutritional vulnerability.
1.30        Aside from inequities in targeting and related leakages, other factors in the design of many
food programs have affected their effectiveness in improving the nutrition of vulnerable groups. For
example, some programs benefit primarily men rather than the nutritionally more vulnerable women and
young children in their households. Most food-for-work schemes are related to the construction of roads,
culverts and bridges, on which work can only be undertaken in the dry season; yet the seasonal peaks
of malnutrition are mainly in the wet season when crops have not yet been harvested, diarrhea and
malaria peak, and energy expenditures on cultivation are greatest. A recent study by the International
6  Options for Targeting Food Interventions in Bangladesh. Report of The Working Group on Targeted Food
Interventions, chaired by International Food Policy Research Institute, 1993.



10
Food Policy Research Institute found the Vulnerable Group Development scheme to have the least amount
of leakage; however, even among the VGD beneficiary households, caloric adequacy among females
(especially pregnant and lactating women) was much lower than that among men7. The study also
concluded that there was no significant difference in the nutritional status of pre-school children between
program and control groups.
1.31       Malnutrition is a wider problem than starvation.  Equating nutrition with food, and
malnutrition with poverty is one of the commonest flaws in the understanding of nutrition issues. While
poverty leads to food insecurity resulting in starvation at the extreme, malnutrition affects people of
almost all income groups in Bangladesh (Tables 1.1 and 1.2). Being less dramatic than starvation,
malnutrition attracts less attention though it is a more pervasive problem. Food programs such as
Vulnerable Group Development are essential to address both the problems among the abjectly poor. But
they need to be complemented with community-based efforts at changing household behaviors, at the
heart of the problem of malnutrition among those who are relatively more food-secure as well. Such
community-based efforts would not deliver food aid in the sense of emergency relief for a limited group
of people in a disaster situation; but they would rather seek to address an endemic problem that prevails
even during "normal" times. Evidently Bangladesh needs both types of interventions - economically
targeted food aid to those in the extreme end of the poverty spectrum and nutritionally targeted activities
aimed at household behaviors; undoubtedly there would be population groups which would qualify for
both types of targeting. The two sets of interventions should work in close complementarity in order to
address the problem of malnutrition comprehensively.
1.32        Weak inter-sectoral focus on nutrition.  The different resources available in existing
programs for health, agricultural extension, soft credit, employment and income generation have not been
coordinated and focussed on nutrition, for at least four reasons. First, there has been no mechanism to
identify who, at the village level, is malnourished. Second, communities and local governments have not
perceived the seriousness of the malnutrition problem and have not been empowered to seek help from
the appropriate higher agencies. Third, improved nutrition has seldom been a priority at any level:
nutrition has been everybody's business, but nobody's responsibility.  Fourth, there has been no
institutional mechanism at the local level to bring agencies together, and no signals have been coming
from higher up in the system to encourage these agencies to work inter-sectorally at the field level.
1.33        Government commitment. Notwithstanding the issues raised in paras 1.24 to 1.32, more
recently there has been a recognition that investments in nutrition not only benefit the national economic
development but are an essential pre-requisite for it.  If the majority of Bangladeshi people are
undernourished and ill, the resultant loss of productivity can frustrate the investments in infrastructure
or industry aimed at building the economy. Recognizing the value of investing in human capital and in
order to mitigate the suffering caused by malnutrition, GOB has included nutritional goals as part of its
Fourth Five Year Plan, ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and reaffirmed its commitment
to these goals at the International Conference on Nutrition in Rome (1992). The close and continued
involvement of the Planning Commission and the Prime Minister's Office in the development of a
national nutrition program demonstrates GOB's appreciation of the macro-economic and inter-sectoral
framework within which nutrition must be dealt with. GOB has included the project in its Three Year
Rolling Investment Program and intends to make adequate budgetary provisions for the project in the
Annual Development Plan from FY96 onwards. GOB has formally sought IDA's assistance for its
nutrition efforts.
7  International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), 1993: Food Consumption and Nutritional Effects of Targeted
Food Interventions in Bangladesh.



11
D. Role of international agencies other than IDA
1.34       In the past, there has been a remarkable similarity between the investments in nutrition by
international development partners and those by GOB, in that they display a comparable lack of
investment in efforts at changing household behaviors related to caring practices. A possible reason is
that donors have been reluctant to put monies into areas where they did not see strong GOB commitment.
Thus, the foreign aid relating to nutrition have generally been on food, family planning and health, with
the exception of some support to micronutrient programns. One of the goals of foreign assistance has been
to rationalize total development investment in the country through the policy dialogue that ensues from
such assistance; and such policy dialogue in respect of nutrition has been developing in the past two years
between GOB and its development partners, primarily UNICEF and IDA in the context of this project.
UNICEF has been providing considerable financial and technical support to the salt iodization program
in Bangladesh. The United Nations Development Program has been coordinating the efforts of UN
agencies involved in Nutrition, which were primarily directed at food aid, managed by the World Food
Program. The World Health Organization (WHO) and FAO have made limited attempts to develop some
programs. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has supported, through
Hellen Keller International, some nutritional surveillance activities.
1.35       GOB's participation in the International Conference on Nutrition in Rome (1992) and the
subsequent preparation of this project have been accompanied by an increased awareness of and interest
in nutrition issues on the part of GOB and some donors: Asian Development Bank, FAO, Germany - both
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and Deutsche Gessellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
-United Nations Development Program, United Nations Population Fund and WHO.
E. Rationale for IDA's involvement
1.36       Relevance to Country Assistance Strategy. The project is fully in line with IDA's Country
Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh8, discussed by the Executive Directors on February 17, 1994, in
which human resources development aspects are seen as crucial to achieving the over-arching national
goal of poverty alleviation (para 34 of the Strategy paper). Improving nutritional status of women and
children is a critical objective of national development, without which the investments made by GOB,
IDA and other development partners, in health, family planning, education and women's development
are unlikely to yield their full benefits. The Strategy (para 35) specifically recognizes the IDA assistance
to GOB in preparing this community-based project involving the participation of NGOs.
1.37       Though substantial investments are being made on food and health programs, there is no
other source of significant financing currently available to Bangladesh for a community-based nutrition
program and without IDA support to this project, malnutrition is not likely to be addressed
comprehensively in the foreseeable future. IDA has been actively involved in the health and population
sector of Bangladesh and its entry into nutrition would produce beneficial synergies. Through its proven
ability to engage GOB in a policy dialogue in the sector, IDA is in a unique position to assist it in
nutrition. IDA's extensive experience with nutrition projects worldwide and its familiarity with the
malnutrition issues specific to Bangladesh (thanks to a sector study in 1985 and to subsequent project
preparation activities) enable IDA to provide the necessary leadership for a concerted action against
malnutrition. The implementation experience with IDA-supported population and health projects has been
positive and there is a good likelihood that a nutrition project under MOHFW would prove successful.
The project takes account of the experience under the Fourth Population and Health Project. several
Part of the Report and Recommendation of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit in
the Amount of SDR 1 75 million to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for a Jute Sector Adjustment Credit. Report
No. P-6052-BD, January 13, 1994.



12
components of which are directly or indirectly oriented to nutrition, and seeks to build linkages with the
existing health and family planning programs in the country.
1.38         The experience gained in BRAC's pilotproject. Fashioned after the Bank-financed Tamil
Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project, BRAC has been implementing for over two years, a Community Based
Pilot Nutrition Initiative in one Thana, i.e., Muktagacha. Covering an estimated population of 156,000
including 5,000 under-two children, 20,000 women of child-bearing age and 5,000 adolescent girls, that
project's main strategy is Growth Monitoring and Promotion (GMP)9 with intensive IEC efforts by a
dedicated grass-roots level worker. This worker is a married woman with a minimum of eight years of
schooling and permanently residing in the village with an inclination to work for the community. One
such worker per village, selected through community mobilization efforts, undertakes GMP and tasks
such as registering pregnancies, births and deaths, imparting health and nutrition education, conducting
women's group meetings and making daily household visits to look into the health and nutritional needs
of the community, especially the vulnerable group, i.e., women and children. Initial evaluation reports
of the BRAC's project have shown that such community-based strategy is feasible and that tangible
improvements have been made in the nutritional status of children and women included in the program
(80% of under-two children where covered by GMP and 73% of the children graduating from the
program showed weight gain); most significantly BRAC's experience has shown that improved caring
practices have resulted from the community-based interventions. Important lessons learnt from BRAC's
pilot activities have been incorporated in this Project's design (Annex 1) and operational lessons emerging
from the Project itself will also be taken account of as it is implemented in a phased manner (para 2.37).
1.39        Lessons from Bank's Involvement in Nutrition in Other Countries. Although this would be
the Bank's first nutrition project in Bangladesh, the Bank's experience in several other countries, e.g.,
India (Tamil Nadu), Indonesia, Guinea-Bissau and Colombia as gleaned from their Project Completion
Reports and OED evaluations, have yielded valuable lessons for the design of the Bangladesh project.
Some of the most important of these lessons are: the feasibility of community-based interventions like
growth monitoring, targeted food supplementation and nutrition IEC, the need for a strong political
commitment and the involvement of GOB in project preparation, the inter-sectoral nature of the problem
which calls for an inter-sectoral solution, the essential characteristics of the field workers, their minimum
required numerical strength and the necessity for their good training and very close supervision of the
labor-intensive tasks of community-based nutrition interventions. Based on these lessons, the project
proposes to lay the greatest emphasis on such community-based interventions, suggests careful targeting
based on field tests, will test two ratios of community Nutrition Promoters (CNP) to the population they
serve - one per 1,000 and one per 1,500 population - and provides for two supervisory personnel for
every 20 CNPs, includes field-based training of volunteers rather than an institution-based approach,
includes a strong IEC component, stresses monitoring and evaluation, includes a mid-term review to
allow mid-course corrections to operational strategies and contemplates a specific inter-sectoral program
development with the innovative idea of setting up an Inter-sectoral Nutrition Fund (ISNF) to encourage
agencies other than MOHFW to undertake nutritionally oriented programs within their respective sectors.
Annex 1 presents the lessons from earlier Bank projects on nutrition, which have been incorporated into
this project.
9 Growth Monitoring and Promotion (GMP) has evolved into one of the standard approaches in malnutrition control.
This approach involves regular weighing of children, charting the weights against the child's age, on a standard
growth chart to monitor his/her weight gains compared with established norms and taking appropriate action if the
growth falters. The action to be taken would include nutrition counseling of the mother (or alternative care-taker as
the case may be) and could include supplementary feeding of the child.



13
II. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
2.1         This project is the first attempt by GOB to develop a comprehensive and coordinated
program to reduce malnutrition among its people. In the past, there have been smaller, isolated programs
or activities directed at specific micronutrient problems, some not-so-small programs aiming to improve
the food availability for the under-privileged sections of the society, either directly or by increasing their
incomes and the broad array of activities constituting the country's health program. All these contribute
to better nutrition but are not nearly enough by themselves, as evidenced by the serious state of
malnutrition obtaining currently in Bangladesh (para 1.2 to 1.7). GOB has recognized that investment
in the nutrition of its people is an important contribution to the human resources capital of the country
and is committed to making this investment adequate and appropriate and to optimize its returns. This
project is the beginning of a long-term effort eventually aiming to benefit the whole country, realizing
the aspirations of GOB as expressed at the International Conference on Nutrition held in Rome in
December, 1992 and at the World Summit for Children of 1990.
B. The Conceptual Basis
2.2         Malnutrition is a significant cause of ill-health, faltering physical growth, reduced mental
abilities, loss of productivity and death. Therefore it is a serious impediment to national socioeconomic
development as well as a major cause of pain and suffering. The attainment of good nutritional status
requires that three essential sets of conditions be met: (i) conditions which ensure the availability of
adequate and appropriate food at the household level; (ii) conditions that lead to good health, particularly
freedom from childhood infectious diseases such as measles, respiratory infections and diarrhoea and
intestinal parasitic infestations; and (iii) appropriate behaviors, collectively known as caring practices in
terms of eating, feeding, hygiene and health-related behaviors, and psycho-social aspects at the household
level, especially as applied to women and young children. All these determinants of nutritional status are
closely related to socioeconomic and cultural factors which play a crucial role in whether or not a given
people are well-nourished.
2.3         While poverty is a principal cause of household food insecurity and therefore an underlying
cause of under-nutrition, studies in Bangladesh show that lack of good nutrition is not exclusively
prevalent in the poor households (para 1.10). Increasing household incomes is likely to increase food
availability for the family, though not necessarily concomitantly; moreover, the appropriateness of the
food choice and intra-household food distribution particularly as relevant to women and young children
would not be addressed by increasing incomes alone. Though successful poverty alleviation is perhaps
the long-term solution to many of the problems of poor families (including malnutrition), it would take
considerable time and resources to achieve. A study'" on poverty and basic needs had estimated that it
would take 79 years to eliminate the average energy deficit in the lowest decile of the Bangladeshi
population, if the country's per capita income grew at the rate of 1.5% and the food prices remained
unchanged. On the other hand, effective nutrition projects have demonstrated that, in the shorter-term,
significant improvements could be made in nutritional status, without waiting for poverty alleviation
efforts to bear fruit. In fact, such nutritional status improvements would contribute considerably to
poverty alleviation goals by enhancing the learning capacity and productivity of the population. Thus the
concept behind this project is to view nutritional improvement as a means of poverty alleviation rather
than as its result.
10 Alan Berg (1981). Malnourished People, a policy view. Poverty and Basic Needs Series.



14
2.4         Ensuring good nutrition is generally a multi-sectoral responsibility due to the multiplicity
of its determinants. As an outcome it falls within the purview of the health sector, but clearly cannot be
dealt with by a ministry of health alone in any country. Agriculture, Food, Education, Social Welfare,
Women's Affairs, Environment (water supply and sanitation, in particular) are just some of the other key
sectors involved. Depending on how these sectoral responsibilities are configured within a given country,
even a greater number of ministries could be contributing directly or indirectly to the nutritional status
of its people. This multi-sectoral nature of nutrition frequently leads to a lack of clarity on who is
responsible within a government to ensure good nutrition. Generally therefore, the various efforts by the
sectors concerned are largely uncoordinated. Thus any comprehensive nutrition program ought to make
a conscious effort to bring together the activities of all the relevant sectors. This project incorporates this
concept through its inter-sectoral component.
2.5         Of the three groups of conditions which determine good nutrition, the third group, which
encompasses caring practices, deserves a special elaboration, firstly because it is frequently neglected and
secondly because it is here that tangible and sustainable impact can be made without major improvements
in socio-economic situation or in the effectiveness of the health care system. The action required in this
area is less about service delivery but more about behavioral change; it is not about creating dependence
but about empowering people to help themselves. This fact makes it more difficult for a system to handle
caring practices from a traditional service delivery approach - unlike food security and health which are
usually addressed through respective services. But it is this same fact that makes its benefits more
lasting, once the desirable behavioral changes have been brought about. For such changes to occur the
project proposes to begin by understanding and reinforcing the current coping strategies which the people
have successfully evolved over time in the face of adverse conditions; effective community mobilization
would be the key to the success of this strategy. Encouraged by a few successes elsewhere, including
in Bank-financed projects, the project proposes to focus primarily on this area of caring practices, while
simultaneously facilitating and strengthening the efforts already being made to address the other two
areas, namely, food security and health conditions. Section E describes the project components.
C. Objectives and Targets
2.6         The project seeks to initiate a national program of nutrition. The ultimate goal of the
national program would be to reduce malnutrition in Bangladesh to the extent that it ceases to be a public
health problem and to improve the nutritional status of its population, particularly children under five
years, women and adolescent girls. This long-term goal is sought to be reached through the following
three intermediate objectives:
(a)   to improve the capacity of national level nutrition institutions in Bangladesh in the areas of
advocacy, analysis of causation and consequences of malnutrition, policy advice, operational
research, and operational support of national programs;
(b)   to improve the capacity of communities, households and individuals in the project area to
understand their nutritional problems in practical terms and take appropriate action to
address them at their own level; and
(c)   to improve the nutritional status of the population in the project area, with particular
emphasis on pregnant and lactating women and on children.
2.7         The nutritional impact goal would be measured mainly on the basis of the following
quantitative targets to be reached after five years of Community-Based Nutrition Component (CBNC),
-he geographical coverage of which would be phased in (thanas to be selected as per agreed criteria, set
Out in annex 2):



15
(a)   reduction of severe malnutrition by 40% and moderate malnutrition by 25 % as measured
by weight-for-age, among under-two children;
(b)   restoration of rate of growth, as measured by monthly weight-gain, among at least 50% of
under-two children included in GMP;
(c)   reduction of disorders resulting from  vitamin A  and iodine deficiency and their
consequences by half; and
(d)   reduction of iron-deficiency anaemia among children and pregnant and lactating women by
a third.
For those thanas where malnourished pregnant women will also be included in the supplementary feeding
program, the following additional targets will be set:
(e)   reduction of low birth-weight occurrence by half of the baseline level;
(f)  improvement in maternal weight gain by at least 50% in at least 50% of the pregnant
women;
2.8         More detailed quantitative targets based on appropriate indicators to measure inputs, process,
outputs and outcomes are being developed (para 2.23). While outcome and impact evaluation would be
carried out at the end of the project, progress during the project would be monitored through a nutrition
surveillance system. In addition, process indicators would be used, some of which would be:
(a)   Registration and nutritional screening of 50% of pregnant women by the end of the first
trimester;
(b)   registration of 80% of 0-24 month children; and
(c)   80%  of registered children receive at least 18 out of 24 monthly weighings, charted
accurately on their weight charts.
2.9        In addition to the direct nutritional impact targets stated in para 2.7, the project would
contribute to the national goals of reducing infant mortality from 110 to 55 per 1,000 live births and
reducing maternal mortality from 600 to 300 per 100,000 births by the year 2000.
D. Strategies
2.10        The main strategies which the project proposes to adopt are based on considerations of cost-
effectiveness and long-term sustainability of project benefits. The project takes a holistic view of
malnutrition causality and seeks to set in place a comprehensive national nutrition program that covers
the three groups of factors, namely, food, health and caring practices. A careful look at the programs
already in operation and cost-effectiveness considerations dictate that existing suboptimal investments on
a given set of activities must first be optimized and rationalized before additional resources are spent on
the same activities; in other words new investments must be made only on activities which are critical
to the project goals and show a clear investment gap. This analysis has led to the decision that the project
funds would primarily be spent on the area of caring practices while simultaneous support is given to the
optimization of existing investments in food and health through inter-sectoral action. Thus, the project's
focus on the community-based approach directed at caring practices is in fact part of a well-rounded
strategy.



16
2.11        Cost-effectiveness considerations have played an important role in the choice of the target
population group for the community-based nutrition component: GMP would be an expensive approach
if applied to all the children and therefore the target group for GMP has been chosen carefully, namely
children under two years of age, since combating malnutrition in these groups is most likely to yield the
maximum lasting benefits (which would eventually be enjoyed by a larger part of the population as these
children grow) at reasonable costs. As for the pregnant and lactating women, they are included in
supplementary feeding in similar projects elsewhere, and the nutritional benefits of such approach have
been shown but the literature is silent on the cost-effectiveness of such an approach. Therefore,
supplementary feeding of pregnant and lactating women will be undertaken on an experimental basis for
the first two years, with adequate budgetary provision to expand into all thanas subject to an evaluation
of the experience in these two years; pregnant and lactating women will of course be included in all
thanas for IEC activities. An alternative, even more selective, targeting strategy will be tested to try and
reduce costs further; this strategy would select newly married couples and their first child until its age
of two, with other severely malnourished children included through periodic screening. Being an
innovative targeting strategy not evaluated elsewhere it will be tried out in just one thana during this
project.
2.12       The rationale for choosing targeted GMP as the central strategy for CBNC is that it is the
best known technique, which could be used effectively to demonstrate to the mothers (or alternative care-
takers in the family, as the case may be) the effect of appropriate feeding practices on childhood growth.
While growth monitoring alone is of doubtful value in improving nutritional status, combined with the
carefully targeted, and supervised supplementary feeding with a strong element of counseling [the P
(promotion) in GMP], it has been proven to be of significant nutritional impact. Moreover, the
promotion part could serve as the locus for community mobilization leading to community awareness and
action as well as for inter-sectoral synergies at the grass-root level. In the long run, such community
movement could become a vehicle for other social sector activities: the women who meet everyday at the
nutrition center would have an opportunity to discuss other issues germane to their own needs.
2.13       It is the sustainability consideration that led to the basic approach of this project, namely
helping people help themselves, through behavioral change rather than a long-term dependence on food
aid. This theme is at the heart of CBNC, which relies totally on community action and changes in
household behavior brought about through interpersonal IEC to sustain nutritional benefits. It is also the
basis of the component on institution building, which seeks to develop national capacity to address
malnutrition so as to reduce dependence on foreign technical assistance. The project also seeks to
heighten general awareness of the problem and its solutions at political, policy and decision levels, in
order to ensure continued GOB commitment to the program, which is clearly a crucial element of
sustainability.
2.14        The project strategies which have been formulated based on the above reasoning may be
summarized as follows:
(a)   Supporting the formulation of a clear national nutrition program backed by strong political
commitment to implementing it;
(b)   Strengthening the national level institutional capacity to direct and coordinate nutrition
activities effectively and to develop effective monitoring mechanisms;
(c)   Facilitating existing and innovative efforts by various sectors to ensure adequate household
food security, access to quality health care services, sanitation and safe water supply;



17
(d)   Effecting positive changes in caring practices related to eating, feeding and personal health
at the household level, focusing on pregnant and lactating women and children under two
years of age;
(e)   Promoting people's involvement in dealing with their problems of malnutrition, to ensure
sustainability; and
(f)   Strengthening existing nutrition activities, particularly oriented towards the control of
micronutrient deficiencies.
E. Project Description
2.15       The project would have three components.
(a)   National Level Nutrition Activities (US$19.0 million) with four sub-components:
(i) Program Development and Institution Building (US$2.7 million)
(ii) IEC Development (US$4.4 million)
(iii) Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities. (US$6.4 million)
(iv) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. (US$5.5 million)
(b)   Community-Based Nutrition Component (CBNC) (US$32.6 million).
(c)  Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Program Development (US$7.0 million).
National Level Nutrition Activities (US$19.0 million)
2.16       Program  Development and Institution Building.  The component will support the
development of an effective national nutrition program to translate the aspirations expressed at the
International Conference on Nutrition (Rome, 1992) and the World Summit for Children (1990),
undertake advocacy at the highest policy levels, maintain high political commitment and coordinate the
development of national expertise to tackle malnutrition. The roles of institutions already working on
different aspects of nutrition will be reviewed, streamlined and coordinated in the overall national context,
with a view to ensuring complementarity among their activities. The review will also assess specific
areas which need strengthening and recommend appropriate resources to effect the required strengthening.
This will also include the role of NGOs and their future place in the national nutrition program beyond
this project. The component will also provide funds for policy research and operations research relevant
to nutrition. Training and fellowships will be arranged for selected staff so as to update their knowledge
and skills. Annex 3 contains a more detailed description of this component. Agreements were reached
during negotiations with GOB that by December 31, 1996, a review of the major national level
institutions active in nutrition or related fields in the country will be carried out acceptable to IDA,
that the results of the review will be furnished to IDA for comments and that the recommendations
of the review, taking account of IDA's comments, will be carried out.
2.17       Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Development.  IEC is the central
philosophy of CBNC. Most of IEC delivery under the project will be done through CBNC. However,
since the development of IEC messages and materials is a substantial task unto itself and since some
advocacy and mass media campaigns would be carried out separately from CBNC, these activities have
been grouped as a distinct component.



18
2.18       The development of appropriate nutrition IEC messages and material would be coordinated
at the national level by a separate unit which would be established as part of the Project Office under
MOHFW. This unit will be headed by a Deputy Director supported by a few technical staff. The terms
of reference (TOR) of the IEC unit will be subject to review by IDA, as part of the TOR for the whole
Project Office. Audience research to understand fully the cultural and behavioral aspects relevant to
nutrition, and to assess IEC needs is the first step and such research has already been initiated. Message
development and the production of IEC materials would follow the results of the formative research as
part of the project. These activities would be contracted out to private firms who have proven expertise
in IEC message development. A more detailed description of this component is provided in annex 4.
2.19       Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities. This component seeks to improve the coverage
and effectiveness of existing programs which directly address different types of malnutrition: i.e.,
Campaign for the Protection and Promotion of Breast-Feeding, Vitamin A distribution, iron and folate
tablet provision to pregnant women and control of iodine deficiency disorders. Since these programs are
in place in most parts of the country, this component will not be limited to the sites chosen for CBNC;
however, particular attention would be paid to CBNC sites to ensure the attainment of measurable
nutritional impact (targets stipulated in para 2.7). Besides direct interventions such as Vitamin A
distribution, this component will work closely with homestead gardening programs and with the IEC
component to ensure that appropriate messages are included on foods rich in micronutrients.
2.20       Specifically, the component will finance the following activities: strengthening the program
on control of anemia, supporting breast-feeding, including the "Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative";
improving operational efficiency of Vitamin A (it has been estimated that there are no resource gaps for
the commodities themselves); establishing mechanisms to test the quality of iodized salt produced in the
country and to make sure that the legal requirements are fulfilled (preventing the marketing of non-
iodized salt); and promoting the consumption of iodized salt and foods rich in vitamins and minerals
through specific IEC activities. Annex 5 provides a more detailed description of this component.
2.21       Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.  Effective monitoring is especially
significant in the context of the proposed project, for two reasons: (i) the core program approach is new
for Bangladesh and (ii) the implementation responsibility for the project activities (especially the inter-
sectoral ones) is spread out between various ministries/departments and some NGOs. Therefore a careful
and tight system of monitoring is being included. Annex 6 gives a more detailed description of the
monitoring and evaluation system planned under the project.
2.22       Baseline surveys will be conducted in each of the CBNC thanas and in comparable control
thanas as the first field activities so as to obtain a pre-project picture of nutritional status, as relevant to
the project objectives. The unit of baseline surveys would be the thana, though information would also
be made available on union and village levels from service statistics of the project. The baseline surveys
are an important step and would involve all parties concerned (not least of all, the community) at various
levels. Baseline data are also being gathered on behaviors as part of IEC formative research. The
planned review of national level agencies and institutions active in nutrition in Bangladesh should provide
the baseline information necessary for the evaluation of the component on program development and
institution building. To reduce the noise from secular trends while evaluating achievements over time,
the surveys will include control thanas; the nutrition surveillance system set up by Hellen Keller
International will also be established in a sample of the project thanas to provide comparative data for
intervention and control areas. Surveys in the six first-year thanas and two control thanas have already
been initiated with UNICEF assistance.
2.23        Continuous monitoring of the project as well as a mid-term evaluation at the end of three
years will be based on a predetermined set of indicators which measure inputs and process as well as



19
outputs and outcomes. Long-term impact (on productivity, learning capacity and economic development)
will not be feasible to measure within the project's life; but outcomes in terms of nutritional improvement
will be measured. Annex 6 includes an initial list of suggested indicators, in addition to the key
indicators listed in para 2.7 and 2.8. Further expansion of the project beyond the first three years, will
take account of results from the mid-term evaluation. In addition, annual reviews have been provided
for, including semi-annual IDA-UNICEF joint supervision missions. The annual review at the end of
two years will be of special importance; the experience from the first six CBNC thanas will be carefully
evaluated at that time in order to learn lessons for the subsequent expansion as per the planned phasing
of CBNC.
2.24       The responsibility for monitoring and evaluation would be vested in the respective
implementing ministries/departments/NGOs for individual project components. The overall monitoring
and evaluation will be carried out by the Project Office with the technical assistance of a Management
and Technical Support Team. Agreements were reached during Negotiations with GOB that baseline
surveys will be carried out in each project thana before CBNC activities are started, that by June
30, 1998, a mid-term evaluation will be conducted by independent professional experts in
accordance with TOR satisfactory to IDA; that a review system will be established and carried out,
providing progress reports to IDA at semi-annual supervision missions.
Community-Based Nutrition Component (CBNC) (US$32.6 million)
2.25       This is the core component of the project and is described in fuller detail in annex 7. The
first activity under this component will be community mobilization, which would involve: the formation
of women's groups (and/or interacting with any existing ones) and building a rapport with them; learning
the specific local context as relevant to the proposed project activities; identifying a suitable woman
meeting agreed selection criteria and acceptable to the community for selection as CNP; determining the
appropriate mechanism for the procurement of raw materials, preparation, packaging and delivery of
supplementary food; agreeing on a suitable location for the Community Nutrition Center (CNC) which
will be the center of operations (see para 2.32). The central activity of this component is GMP with a
strong element of IEC. This involves regular monthly weighing of children to monitor their growth and
using this process to counsel mothers by showing them when there is a problem and what to do about it.
It also entails very selective and targeted supplementary feeding of very vulnerable children and women,
who meet nutritional criteria. The supplementary feeding is primarily intended as a demonstrative tool
to provide counseling to the mothers, and secondarily to help the severely malnourished children recover.
It is not intended to replace the normal food which the children get at home. The food will be a snack
which is easy to prepare from a pre-cooked food base. It will not be distributed on a take-home basis
but will be fed to the malnourished women and children at feeding centers at a time of the day which is
different from the usual meal time; this approach of on-site feeding provides the opportunity for
counseling and ensures that the food is actually consumed by the intended beneficiaries. The CNC itself
may eventually become the community forum where the women meet regularly and build a community
action program, not just for nutrition but for a broader range of welfare efforts.
2.26       Minimizing leakage offood. Though supplementary feeding is being proposed primarily as
an educational tool and the project is neither designed as nor intended to become a feeding program, per
se, since considerable amounts of food supplements are involved, careful thought was given to minimizing
leakage to unintended persons. The following specific safeguards have been built into the Project design
in this regard: on-site supervised feeding strategy; the special composition of the food supplement, which
renders it less amenable to sale in the open market; close supervision of the project activities by NGO(s);
and decentralized procurement of food supplements, which brings the process closer to the community
thus making it more transparent.



20
2.27        The project will try two different targeting approaches for CBNC:
(a)  the general targeting strategy: children under two years will come under Growth Monitoring,
severely malnourished and growth faltering children under two years (meeting criteria based
on weight-for-age charts) and malnourished pregnant mothers (meeting criteria based on mid-
arm circumference) would be brought into the supplementary feeding program. Selected
children will be fed ad libitum, with an estimated average portion of 300 Kcal/day, six days a
week for a period of 4 months and mothers, a 600 Kcal portion everyday for 4 months during
pregnancy and 6 months into lactation. The supplementary feeding of pregnant and lactating
women will be undertaken in 3 of the 6 first-year thanas and the experience in those thanas
compared with the other two at the end of two years before expanding to all the project thanas.
Besides active IEC and nutrition demonstrations, an effort will be made to provide access to
adequate primary health care (through existing health/family planning infrastructure) with an
emphasis on Maternal and child health and a coordinated package of inter-sectoral services
(such as homestead gardening, female education, income generation activities, etc.) relevant to
nutrition with special attention to the households with people belonging to the target group; and
(b)  an experimental targeting strategy (to be tested as a pilot in one thana): all newly married
couples in the covered area will be provided a special package of health and welfare services
(the services under GOB's health program directed at the general population are not at adequate
levels of quality, access and completeness):  IEC, with a particularly strong nutritional
counseling focusing on the period from pregnancy to two years after child-birth, preferential
treatment at health/family planning facilities with an emphasis on maternal and child health care
and particular attention to childhood infections, inclusion in homestead gardening program,
special provision to their household in terms of access to safe water supply and sanitary
facilities, etc. The couples' first pregnancy will get extra attention, including supplementary
feeding of the mother and/or the child if they meet nutritional criteria, full pre-, intra- and post-
natal care, breast-feeding promotion, complete immunization (for the mother and the child).
The couples will leave the program when the first child is two years old (at that time, if the
child is in the supplementary feeding program, the child would stay in and complete it). This
strategy is expected to get the attention of the young women and men when they are most
receptive to counseling and it is hoped that eating/feeding behaviors inculcated in them would
be sustained. An added advantage of this targeting strategy is that it would reduce the number
of beneficiaries which one community worker needs to take care of. Moreover, the fact that
the couple is eligible for the package only until the first child is two years old might serve as
an incentive to postpone the first pregnancy, a useful contribution to the national goal of fertility
reduction. Lastly, in the cultural context of Bangladesh, the newly-married couples are seen
as beginning their lives and therefore looked upon favorably; this makes such a targeting
strategy locally acceptable.
2.28        If done effectively, CBNC will change the household feeding and eating behaviors in a
positive way. When the load of severe malnutrition is reduced sufficiently in a given site and when
adequate behavioral change has been brought about, this component could be phased out gradually. It
is difficult to predict precisely the time required to reach that stage but a rough estimate would be 10-15
years of operations. Following such a period, the communities themselves could then carry on the
essential aspects of GMP, without a need for project inputs; regular weighings of children could continue
by community volunteers and when malnourished children are identified, they could be referred to the
health services (which would not be overburdened by such cases if the level of malnutrition is not as high
as it currently is). Such community take-over of nutrition activities has occurred in Indonesia. The
project would involve the local governmnent representatives (Union Parishad, Thana Development
Committee, etc.) to ensure their participation and ownership of the project activities. The high degree



21
of NGO participation in project activities (see para 4.4) would further enhance the possibility of
community ownership.
2.29         Growth Monitoring  is the only reliable way to identify children who are severely
malnourished or falling behind in growth. When combined with the task of growth promotion, i.e.,
supervising the supplementary feeding and carrying out subsequent counseling, this is a labor-intensive
task. From experience in similar projects elsewhere, e.g., Tamil Nadu, India, it is known that one
community-level worker per 1,000 population would need to work for about 4 hours a day, for six days
a week. In order to assess the worker population ratio required in the Bangladesh context, the project
will try two ratios: 1 per 1,000 and 1 per 1,500 in the first two years. The final ratio to be adopted will
depend on a review after two years. Such a worker has to be from within the community and well-
accepted by the people of the community. In the cultural context of Bangladesh, such a worker has to
be a woman with healthy and well-nourished children of her own, so that she could serve as a model
mother. The workers also need to have a minimum education of 8th grade. In this project, such workers
are proposed to be called Community Nutrition Promoters (CNP). Their immediate supervision will be
provided by Community Nutrition Organizers (CNO), who will be stationed at the Union level in the ratio
of 1 per 10 CNPs and further up the system, the project would have a Thana Nutrition Coordinator at
the Thanas level to oversee all CBNC activities in the given Thana. The vital need for adequate training
of these workers and their intensive supervision for the successful implementation of this project has been
recognized and detailed plans for such training and supervision have been prepared as part of the Project
Implementation Volume. Annex 8 describes the training needs of project personnel, including these
workers.
2.30         The possibility of using existing workers and supervisory cadres for the task of GMP under
the project was seriously considered. Given the current workload of existing grass-root level health and
family planning workers, it is neither feasible nor desirable to add to their responsibilities further.
Moreover, they are not available at the village level. The same applies to personnel of other sectors,
such as teachers and agricultural extension workers. However, at the Thana level, it has been decided
by MOHFW that the Assistant Thana Family Planning Officer would serve as the Thana Nutrition
Coordinator, avoiding the creation of a new post. As for CNPs and CNOs, the project would select
women meeting agreed criteria (annex 9) from existing community development volunteers, for instance,
the members of the Village Defence Party (VDP)". In case suitable candidates are not available from
VDP in a given village or union, the selection would be made from the rest of the community and the
selected person(s) could then join the VDP. Since the activities of CNP involve a range of welfare
services, a strong cooperation between CNPs and the other sectoral personnel at the field level would be
ensured through the involvement of the Union Parishad.
2.31         CNPs and CNOs would need to be suitably compensated for the additional community
service they perform under the project. But they would not form a new cadre of GOB workers; rather
they are members of the community who would be contracted to perform specific community service
work. The project would finance the costs of honoraria for CNPs and CNOs, which have been agreed
at Tk. 500 and Tk. 1,000 each per month respectively.
The Village Defence Party (VDP), is a volunteer group in rural Bangladesh with a registered membership of about five
million people. The group is financed and organized under the Ministry of Home Affairs and given training in life-skills
and vocational skills - but the majority of the registered volunteers have not yet been trained. It was originally
created as a community movement to protect villages. It has since become a development volunteer organization
and people wishing to contribute to community development activities could register with it. The VDPs do not have
a fixed job description but are called on to give some of their time to community work from time to time as
necessary. Though the organization has retained its name, "defence party", it is neither militant nor political.



22
2.32       The project would need, in each of the village/community where CBNC would operate the
CNC, 500-1000 square feet of secure accommodation where project materials including food stocks could
be stored, simple food preparation facilities exist and about 40-50 women and their children could be
accommodated during feeding and IEC sessions. The first option to arrange this would be to get the local
communities to contribute such a space for the use of the project. Judging from the experience of
conducting satellite clinics for family planning/Maternal and child health services, such an option appears
to be feasible. Failing this, possibilities of using existing public buildings such as schools will be
explored. If this also proves to be infeasible, a suitable accommodation would be rented, in which case,
the project would finance the cost of such rental. In addition, incidental expenses in running the CNC,
such as cleaning supplies, will also be financed from the project up to 300 taka per month per CNC.
Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Program Development (US$7.0 million)
2.33       The main purpose of this component would be to respond to nutritional program needs
through efforts beyond the scope of CBNC, by supporting innovative actions with a potential for positive
nutrition impact, carried out by sectors other than health/family planning. It would enhance the nutrition
benefits of those sectors' programs, say, through better targeting and/or coordination. It is not feasible
to bring all the activities in every sector of import to nutrition under one project; such activities should
be rightfully carried out by the respective sectors from their regular allocation of resources; this
component does not seek to replace those resources. Therefore, this component will support the
nutritional reorientation of various sectoral activities, retargeting them to the nutritionally vulnerable
population and/or initiation of innovative activities but not the mere expansion of programs that are
already the normal responsibility of a given ministry.
2.34       An Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Fund (ISNF) will be established by GOB to finance facilitating
activities to accomplish the reorientation/retargeting. Government Departments and NGOs will be able
to draw on this fund to undertake specific activities or obtain seed monies to pilot new initiatives which
would contribute to the goals of this project. After their pilot phase, such new programs would be
financed out of the respective sector's own resources. NGOs such as Grameen Bank and BRAC have
considerable experience in income generation activities (especially targeted to women), which are very
relevant to enhancing household food security. Therefore, sub-projects including such activities to be
carried out by NGOs with a proven track-record would also be potential candidates for funding under this
component. Only proposals meeting agreed criteria (Annex 10) will be financed from the ISNF.
Agreement was reached during Negotiations with GOB that, promptly after Credit-signing, the
proposed ISNF will be established and operated in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
2.35       An Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Cell (ISNC) has been established as part of this project to bring
about inter-sectoral coordination with regard to nutrition and to monitor and oversee the progress of the
inter-sectoral component. The cell will be headed by a Joint-Secretary, MOHFW, with representation
of the relevant sectoral ministries and the NGOs. The sectoral ministries currently being considered for
inclusion in the cell are: Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Food, Relief and Rehabilitation, Ministry
of Fisheries and Livestock, Ministry of Women's Affairs, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Local
Government and Rural Development, Ministry of Home Affairs (under whom the VDP organization is
placed) and Ministry of Social Welfare.  Interested NGOs will be represented jointly by two
representatives. The cell will be staffed by clerical and other support staff and housed in the Secretariat
buildings within MOHFW. Agreement was reached during Negotiations with GOB that ISNC will
be maintained and operated with the authority to clear sub-project proposals to be financed from
ISNF, based on criteria agreed with IDA and that each sub-project proposal to be financed from
the fund will be subject to prior review and approval by IDA.



23
2.36       Three sub-project proposals currently being developed for financing under this component
are: (i) integrating homestead vegetable production with CBNC; (ii) examining the consumption and
nutritional impact of agricultural policies and programs with a view to appropriate modifications; and
(iii) homestead poultry production as a means of generating earnings and nutrient supplements for the
poor households. Proposals (i) and (ii) are being developed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the
proposal (iii) belongs to Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock. These three proposals meet the selection
criteria but would be subject to further technical review by IDA before being finally selected for funding.
The Project has been costed with adequate monies to cover activities worth US$7.5 million (including
contingencies) from ISNF; if any of the above three proposals are not found to be suitable for funding,
other appropriate activities meeting agreed criteria and selected as per agreed procedures, could be
financed from ISNF. Examples of other activities which might be included in the future are: reorienting
and retargeting food programs such as Vulnerable Group Development, Rural Maintenance Program and
Food for Work schemes under the Ministry of Relief and Rehabilitation; targeted credit programs to food-
insecure households to improve their earning capacity - particularly that of women in these households
(through NGOs as well as GOB); inclusion of nutrition elements in school curricula; inclusion of nutrition
elements in the training curricula of grass-root level workers of the relevant sectors and IEC activities
to promote the proper use of safe water and of sanitary latrines.
F. Geographic Scope and Phasing
2.37       The field activities of the CBNC would be phased in, so that a total of 40 thanas (out of
Bangladesh's 460 thanas), i.e., about 8-9% of the population would have been covered by the end of the
project period; activities such as program development, institution building and IEC development would
be at the national level; IEC message delivery will be through CBNC by inter-personal methods and
nationwide through mass media; most inter-sectoral activities are intended to closely follow CBNC
phasing, with some possible exceptions depending on resource requirements and absorptive capacity at
the national level (e.g., studies of consumption and nutrition effects of agricultural or food policy); and
the support to existing micronutrient activities would be extended throughout the country. After the
BRAC pilot initiative, CBNC under this project is the first large scale venture of this sort to be
undertaken in the country. Therefore a carefully graded approach is being proposed for the phasing in
of CBNC. During the first year, CBNC would be limited to six thanas and no new thanas will be added
in the second year to allow adequate time for start-up activities and to refine operational details of
community mobilization, communications and service delivery, in these initial thanas. Learning from
the experience in these thanas, and taking account of findings from the review after the first two years,
17 more thanas would be added in the third year and 17 more in the fourth year. The results of a mid-
term evaluation at the end of three years would determine the pace of further expansion as also the
subsequent design of the project. The project itself is intended as the first phase of a national community
nutrition program, which would be expanded to the rest of the country following favorable evaluation at
the end of six years, and subject to implementation capacity.
2.38       The geographic location of the project's field activities would be determined through
application of the following decision rules, which are amplified in annex 2: (a) at least one district would
be included per division, to allow testing in different environments; (b) about half the thanas would be
covered in each project district, to make it cost-effective to develop project support systems, and to allow
an element of local competition for entry into the project; (c) a range of distressed and non-distressed
districts and thanas would be chosen; (d) but districts and thanas which are the most disaster-prone or lack
basic health infrastructure, would be avoided so as to give the proposed project reasonable chance of
success; (e) only thanas with at least 80% of infants fully immunized would be selected. The six thanas
for the first year have already been selected, one from each Division. Agreement was reached during
Negotiations with GOB that by June 30, 1996 and by December 31, 1996, the thanas for introducing
CBNC in the third and fourth years will be selected as per criteria agreed with IDA.



24
G. Gender Perspective
2.39       Women, particularly during pregnancy and lactation, form a principal group of beneficiaries
of this project. Therefore, they stand to profit directly from the project's nutritional impact. Moreover,
the community-based project activities are directed at social mobilization and community empowerment,
which would have to occur primarily through the advancement of women's status in the society. All the
grass-root project personnel in CBNC would be women, thus creating income-generating opportunities.
More income-generating opportunities will be created by this project, as the supplementary food in CBNC
is proposed to be prepared, packaged and provided by women's groups at the village level and/or small-
scale industries at the union level. Rural credit schemes (from GOB's own fuinds) have also been
included as a possible inter-sectoral activity - again leading to potential enhancements in women's income
and status. Improved nutrition status among children would result in increased child survival, in turn
reducing fertility and thereby benefiting women's health. The project activities would take account of
the male members of the households as well; one important reason is the Bangladeshi cultural context in
which men control key decisions about the types and amounts of foods purchased. Project monitoring
indicators will be gender-disaggregated and gender equity will be a strong consideration in the recruitment
of higher level project staff.
H. Environmental Aspects
2.40       No detrimental environmental impacts are expected to occur due to the proposed project
activities. The inter-sectoral component of the project is likely to benefit the environment by promoting
the use of improved sanitary latrines and safe water supply. The indirect project benefit of reduced
population growth (as a result of increased child survival) would lead to a decreased burden on the
environment.



25
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT
A. Project Costs
3.1            Cost Sumnaries.  The total cost of the project, including duties and taxes, is estimated at
about Taka 2,690 million or US$67.3 million equivalent. Duties and taxes would amount to around
US$805,200 (1.2% of the total costs). A breakdown of costs of the proposed project by component and
by categories of expenditure appears in tables 3.1 and 3.2 respectively. Detailed project cost tables by
component, categories of expenditure and years of implementation are in Annex 11.
Table 3.1: Project Costs by Component
Components                                      (Taka Uillion)                (USS Million) |  X of
Local    Foreign      Total   Local    Foreign   Total t   costs
NationaL Level Nutrition Activities                  671.9       89.3      761.2      16.8        2.2     19.0        32
Community-Based Nutrition Component                1,296.9        8.7    1,305.6    32.4          0.2     32.6        56
Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Program Development         266.3       10.4      276.7      6.7         0.3      7.0        12
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                   2,235.1      108.4   2,343.5      55.9         2.7    58.6        100
Physical Contingencies                            141.1        2.2      143.3      3.6         0.0      3.6         6
Price Contingencies                               390.3       13.0      403.3      4.9         0.2      5.1         9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                2,766.5      123.6   2,890.1      64.4         2.9    67.3        115
Table 3.2: Costs by Expenditure Categories and Financiers
including contingencies (US$ '000)
IDA           Goverruent          Total         Foreign   Local    Duties
Expenditure Categories                                                                    Exchange (Excluding    &
Amount     X      Amount     X     AmtEnt      Z                 Taxes)    Taxes
INVESTlENT COSTS
Goods, other than food supptlements              8,929.2   89.9   1,002.6  10.1   9,931.8   14.8        413.9    8,712.6   805.2
VehicLes                                         217.4   55.0      177.8   45.0     395.2    0.6      217.4         ---   177.8
Equipment, Furniture, Supplies                3,805.8   82.2       824.8   17.8   4,630.6    6.9      196.6    3,806.6   627.4
Training Materials                             1,563.8  100.0        ---    ---   1,563.8    2.3         ---    1,563.8      ---
Therapeutic Nutrients                          1,182.6  100.0        ---    ---   1,182.6    1.8         ---    1,182.6      ---
IEC Materials                                 2,159.5  100.0         ---    ---   2,159.5    3.2        ---    2,159.5       ---
Therapeutic Food Suppleuents                    20,965.5   88.2   2,791.6   11.8  23,757.1   35.3          ---   23,757.1      ---
TechnicaL Assistance'2                          14,332.4  100.0        ---    ---  14,332.4   21.3   2,523.5   11,80.9         ---
of which:
Policy Support                                 1,783.3  100.0        ---    ---   1,783.3    2.7      314.0    1,469.3       ...
Project Preparation & Implementation          10,793.1  100.0        ---    ---  10,793.1   16.0   1,900.3    8,892.8        ---
Institutional Development                      1,756.0  100.0        ---    ---   1,756.0    2.6      309.2    1,446.8       ...
IEC Activities                                  4,074.4  100.0         ---    ---   4,074.4    6.1         ---    4,074.4      ---
RECURRENT COSTS                                 11,526.2   75.6   3,667.7  24.1  15,193.9   22.6           ---   15,193.9      ---
Total    59,827.7   88.9   7,461.9   11.1  67,289.6  100.0   2,937.0   63,547.0   805.2
12      The expenditure category, "Technical Assistance" includes Consultant Services, Training, Fellowships,
Workshops/Seminars, Research and Studies and Monitoring/Review Activities. Annex 11 presents the
costs under these different types of Technical Assistance.



26
3.2        Basis of Cost Estimates. Cost estimates have been made based on information provided by
GOB and calculations made by UNICEF and IDA experts. Costs of therapeutic nutrition supplementation
and other consumables are based on estimates obtained locally. Costs of compensation for CNPs are
calculated at 500 taka per month and incidental expenses for running the CNCs at taka 300 per month;
compensation for CNOs is costed at Tk. 1,000 per month; these were found by local enquiries to be the
reasonable amounts for the required purpose. These estimates concurred with the information provided
by an NGO who has already implemented similar activities in the communities. Salaries and allowances
of GOB personnel in the Project are estimated on the basis of GOB pay scales.
3.3        Taxes and Duties. All imported goods are subject to custom duties and taxes. Duties and
taxes applied to this project amount to 1.2% of the project costs and will be financed by GOB.
3.4        Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10%on vehicles
and 5.0% on other goods. Price contingencies have been applied using the Bank guidelines at 4.0% for
1995, 4.0% for 1996, 4.0% for 1997, 4.5% for 1998, 4.5% for 1999 and 5.0% for 2000 for local price
increases and at 2.2 % for each of the project years for international price increases. A purchasing power
parity assumption for the exchange rate was applied to offset the difference between local and foreign
inflation in the project years.
3.5        Foreign Exchange Component. The estimated foreign exchange component of the project
costs is the equivalent of US$ 2.9 million or 4.4% of total project costs and is calculated as follows:
Equipment and furniture: 4%; vehicles: 55%; and expatriate technical assistance: 100%.
3.6        Recurrent Cost Implications. The total recurrent costs of the project when fully operational
in 40 thanas as per the proposed phasing is about US$13.5 million spread over 6 years. The main
incremental recurrent expenditures in the project are for the honoraria to CNPs and CNOs and the costs
of running the CNCs (operating expenses). The CNPs and CNOs will not be GOB employees and will
be compensated only on a temporary basis through NGOs. The thana-level staff are being drawn from
existing staff under MOHFW and therefore do not entail additional costs. Additional staff positions being
created because of the project are minimal (mainly at the Project Office and ISNC) and the total salary
costs of such staff are budgeted at only US$653,700 for the entire project period. If the CBNC activities
were to be continued beyond the project period, the recurrent costs of such activities are estimated to be
about $70,000 per thana per year; however, CBNC activities should not be required in a given thana on
an indefinite basis; they are intended to be phased out gradually after 10-15 years. The Government will
bear the cost of salaries and allowances, maintenance of vehicles and equipment and custom duties and
taxes; the Government will also take on the incremental recurrent expenditures which will be financed
by IDA on a declining basis (para 3.14).
B. Financing
3.7        Of the total estimated project costs of US$67.3 million, the IDA credit of US$59.8 million
amounts to 88.9% and the GOB contribution of US$7.5 million amounts to 11.1%. All expenditures
involving foreign exchange would be met from the IDA credit. Cost recovery by way of user charges
is not considered feasible in the context of Bangladesh in view of the extreme poverty of the intended
beneficiaries. Table 3.3 shows the financing plan.
Table 3.3: Project Financing Plan
Local   Foreign Total
------------(US$ million)--
Financier
Government  7.5    0.0       7.5
IDA         56.9    2.9      59.8
Total       64.4    2.9      67.3



27
C Procurement
3.8          The items of procurement included in the project and the methods of procurement to be used
in the case of each item are provided in table 3.4 The project will not finance any civil works.
Table 3.4: Procurement Methods
(US$ million including contingencies)
PROJECT ELEMENTS                                       Procurement Method
_ICB      LCB    Other a  GOB'b    Total
1. Vehicles                                                          0.40                           0.40
(0.22)                        (0.22)
2. Equipment, supplies and furmiture                                 4.63                           4.63
(3.81)                         (3.80)
3. Training materials                                                           1.56                 1.56
(1.56)              (1.56)
4. Books and Journals                                                           0.01                0.01
(0.01)              (0.01)
5. IEC Materials (development & production)                 2.16                                    2.16
(2.16)                                  (2.16)
6. Therapeutic Nutrients                                                        1.18                 1.18
(1.18)              (1.18)
7. Therapeutic Food Supplements                                                23.76               23.76
(20.96)             (20.96)
8. Technical Assistance, (including Studies & Training)                        14.33                14.33
(14.33)             (14.33)
of which, Policy Support                                                      1.78
Project Preparation & Implementation Support                                 10.79
Institutional Development                                                     1.76
9. IEC Activities (campaigns, etc.)                                             4.07                4.07
(4.07)              (4.07)
10. Salaries and Allowances A                                                             0.60      0.60
(0.00)    (0.00)
11. Other Recurrent Expenditures  d                                           14.60               14.60
(11.52)             (11.52)
Toal                                                        2.16     5.03      59.51      0.60     67.30
(2.16)   (4.03)    (53.63)    (0.00)   (59.82)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/  Other procurement methods include local shopping, consultant services, development of training
materials through an NGO and administrative expenditures following Government procedures.
b/ GOB: Completely financed by the Government of Bangladesh.
c/  Other recurrent expenditures include honoraria for the field workers, incremental operating
expenditures involved in the running of the community nutrition centers and of the Project Office.
d/ These project elements represent non-procurement expenditures.
3.9          All project procurement will be made in accordance with the respective IDA guidelines.
Project-financed consultants would be recruited according to the Bank's guidelines for Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and World Bank as Executing Agency. Standard bidding documents will be
used.



28
3.10        IEC materials (total value, $2.16 million) will be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). Vehicles, equipment, furniture and supplies (total value, $5.03 million) will be procured
by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB); however, bicycles and other small items of equipment, which may
be needed on an urgent basis may be procured through UNICEF. The equipment and supplies to be
procured under the project are to be spread over the project period (according to the phasing of the
project activities), making each bid too small to attract international bidders; moreover, the items to be
procured are all locally available, e.g., utensils for the community nutrition center, shoulder bags,
measuring tapes, stationery items and growth charts. Training materials (total value $1.56 million) will
be developed by the NGOs who will be involved in project implementation using their own staff; at the
present time competitive bidding is not feasible for this purpose since there is only one NGO, i.e.,
BRAC, which has the experience and expertise to undertake this task effectively in line with the project
design. Therapeutic nutrients i.e., iron tablets and vitamin A capsules, (total value, $1.18 million) will
be procured from UNICEF.
3.11        Therapeutic food supplements (total value, $23.76 million) will be produced by women's
groups, cooperatives, cottage industries or other community-based systems within the villages using
locally available raw materials (wheat, jaggery, pulses and oil). The raw materials (total value, $14.8
million) included in the $23.76M cost of food supplement will be procured by the respective community
based systems from the local markets by prudent shopping. The rationale for such a local community-
based procurement is as follows: (a) the supplementary feeding operation is to be carried out in nearly
8,000 villages by as many CNPs; central procurement of food ingredients, preparation, packaging,
storage and distribution would call for a highly efficient system of managing the logistics of these steps;
the current systems in Bangladesh are not capable of handling these additional requirements effectively
without an interruption in the supply of food supplements; (b) local procurement at the village level would
encourage community involvement and ownership; it would also provide income-generating opportunities
for women, thus complementing the project objectives; (c) all the raw materials are generally available
in the rural communities of Bangladesh; (d) spreading the procurement over the many villages might also
increase the transparency of the process and reduce the scope for mismanagement of funds, since the
CNPs are close to the beneficiaries and the amounts involved are divided into smaller portions; (e) it is
desirable to keep the process of preparation closer to the point of operation to minimize loss of shelf-life
due to transportation and other delays involved in distributing the food. Based on the estimated cost of
food supplements to be procured per village, a limit of $1000 per year per CNP would be appropriate
for this item of procurement.
3.12        The amount of procurement to be managed at the central level is relatively small, since the
main item of procurement, i.e., therapeutic food supplements would be provided in a decentralized
manner. As for centrally procured items, the procurement unit under the Directorate-General of Family
Planning will be responsible for the procurement goods and the Project Office will be responsible for the
procurement of Technical Assistance (total value, $14.33 million).  UNICEF would assist in the
recruitment of individual consultants for technical assistance as may be deemed necessary by GOB. The
procurement plans for such centrally handled items are included in the overall implementation plan.
3.13        All ICB procurements, LCB packages for the procurement of goods estimated to cost in
excess of $200,000 and requirements for consultant services in excess of $100,000 with firms and those
in excess of US$50,000 with individuals will be subject to prior review by IDA. This would cover
approximately 24% of the total value of procurement under the project.



29
D. Disbursements
3.14        Disbursementpercentages.  Table 3.5 shows the different disbursement categories and
disbursement percentages against each of them.
Table 3.5 Disbursement Categories and Percentages
Amount of the Credit        % of Expenditures to be Financed
Category           Allocated (Expressed in SDR
Equivalent)
Goods (other than therapeutic         4,090,000        100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
food supplements and IEC                               expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
materials)                                             local expenditures for other items procured
locally
Therapeutic Food Supplements         12,650,000        100% in FY1996 through FY1998
90% in FYI999 and FY2000 and
80% in FY2001 and thereafter
IEC Materials                         1,300,000        100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
Consultant Services, Studies and      8,580,000        100%
Training 1/
IEC Activities                        2,420,000        100%
Incremental Operating Costs           7,070,000        100% in FY1996 through FY1998
90% in FY1999 and FY2000 and
80% in FY2001 and thereafter
Unallocated                           3,990,000
TOTAL            40,100,000
1/ This includes all Technical Assistance: consultant services, training, fellowships, workshops/seminars, and
studies.
3.15        Special Account. A Convertible Taka Special Account will be opened with a commercial Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
The authorized allocation for the Special Account has been agreed at Tk. 80 million; however, such authorized
allocation shall be limited to Tk. 24 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by IDA shall equal or exceed SDR 2.7 million. The
authorized allocation would be withdrawn from the Credit and deposited into the Special Account to facilitate smooth
implementation by allowing more immediate access to the Credit when required. Withdrawals from the Special
Account shall be against the eligible categories listed in table 3.5; such withdrawals from and subsequent
replenishments of the Special Account will be made as per standard procedures, detailed in the Development Credit
Agreement. Accounting and auditing requirements that apply to project expenditures shall apply equally to those
expenditures reimbursed through the Special Account.
3.16        Required Documentation.  Disbursements up to a limit of US$200,000 in respect of project
expenditures on procurement of goods, up to US$100,000 in respect of consultant services provided by firms and



30
up to US$50,000 in respect of consultant services provided by individuals will be made against withdrawal
applications supported by Statement of Expenditure certified by the Project Director and by MOHFW, such limits
being applied to each individual disbursement. The Project Office will retain all relevant documentation in respect
of such statements of expenditure and make them available to IDA for review on request. Expenditures greater than
the above limits will be reimbursed against fully documented withdrawal applications.
3.17         Although ISNF is to be established by GOB as an open fund, it will not be a mechanism to advance
monies from the IDA Credit. The disbursement criteria and documentation requirements for the activities financed
from ISNF will be the same as for similar activities being carried out under the rest of the project. The ISNF will
be a GOB fund to attract good sub-project proposals from various agencies and to facilitate inter-sectoral action.
3.18         The disbursement projections in table 3.6 take account of the planned phasing of CBNC and the
retroactive financing of preparatory costs up to US$ 500,000, - incurred after March 1, 1995 - under the categories
of goods and consultants' services. In order to ensure adequate project readiness, i.e., for activities to begin in full
swing once the Credit is declared effective, the Project Office has already been created, key staff have been
recruited and office accommodation and other facilities arranged. Furthermore, baseline surveys, preparation of
training materials and audience research for IEC message development are to be carried out prior to Credit-signing.
The purpose of retroactive financing is to cover the costs of these startup activities.
Table 3.6: Project Disbursement Projections
(US$ Millions)
FY            1996        1997        1998         1999        2000          2001
Annual                              3.3         3.6         9.6        14.6        14.1           14.6
Cumulative                          3.3         6.9        16.5        31.1        45.2           59.8



31
IV. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
4.1        Preparation process and status. Project preparation has been carried out through close
collaboration between GOB, IDA and UNICEF and in consultation with other development partners,
including Asian Development Bank, Germany (KfW and GTZ), USAID, United Nations Development
Program, WHO and NGOs. Specific NGOs who have been involved are: BRAC, which is currently
implementing a project in one thana on very similar lines as CBNC; Hlellen Keller International, which
has put into place a nutrition surveillance system and is interested in expanding such a system into the
project thanas; Grameen Bank; CARE; Save the Children Fund (US and UK) - who have all had previous
nutrition experience in the country. Comments and suggestions were provided by the bilateral donors
financing Fourth Population and Health Project as well. The project concepts, design, activities, and
implementation plans were agreed between GOB and IDA, UNICEF Missions and further details were
worked out by several working groups under MOHFW, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Fisheries
and Livestock, coordinated by a Project Preparation Steering Committee in MOHFW. The Government
then approved a project concept paper after it was reviewed by IDA. In line with agreements reached
at the negotiations and with the project description contained in this SAR, GOB has prepared a Project
Proforma (PP). Technical support to GOB for further preparation continues to come from UNICEF, the
Bank, and BRAC. A detailed Project Implementation Volume, including an implementation plan and
monitoring plan, has been drafted. The draft Project Implementation Volume was discussed during the
Negotiations and will be finalized at the Project Launch Workshop. A Memorandum of Understanding
for technical cooperation between GOB and the Institute of Nutrition, Mahidol University, Thailand has
been prepared. The Institute is internationally recognized in the field of nutrition and its technical
assistance should contribute to local capacity building.
4.2        The role played by UNICEF. UNICEF's technical support went far beyond participation
in joint missions with IDA; more than 20 studies were carried out by UNICEF specifically to meet the
technical requirements of this project. UNICEF's resources were readily made available for such studies,
consultancies and study tours both to provide high quality scientific inputs into the project preparation
and to develop awareness and commitment among policy-makers and managers of GOB. UNICEF is also
assisting already with the preparation of training curricula and materials and the Project Implementation
Volume. The formative research for IEC message and material development is currently under way and
results are expected shortly. UNICEF's Board of Directors recently approved a proposal to raise
supplementary funds up to a limit of $15 million to provide additional technical support to this project
during its implementation. This UNICEF supplementary mechanism would be one possible mode of
channeling possible future funding that might be made available by bilateral donors; thus, while the
project does not currently include cofinancing, it is expected that donors other than IDA would become
substantively involved (through UNICEF or directly) in the future. Such additional involvement would
become particularly appropriate if this project proves successful and resources are required for its
expansion to other parts of the country.
4.3        Implementation Responsibility. The CBNC and IEC components and related monitoring and
evaluation would be the responsibility of MOHFW, which will be discharged through the establishment
of a Project Office accountable to a National Steering Committee through a National Nutrition
Management Committee, both under MOHFW. The project will provide for a Management and
Technical Support Team consisting of four or five consultants to assist the Project Office. Team members
would include people with expertise in training, monitoring and evaluation, community nutrition, and
project management. The Government and IDA have agreed outline terms of reference for the technical
assistance; detailed terms of reference are now being prepared, to be included in the revised Project
Implementation Volume. Agreements were reached with GOB during negotiations that in accordance
with TOR acceptable to IDA, the Project Office will be maintained and operated with adequate
staff, funding and other facilities and by September 30, 1995, Management and Technical Support
Team would be established and maintained with the necessary expertise, to assist the Project Office.
The Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Program Development component would be coordinated by the proposed



32
ISNC. The sub-projects under the inter-sectoral component would be implemented by the line ministries
or departments or NGOs, which put forth the respective proposals. The Ministry of Home Affairs will
be co-opted in the project implementation inasmuch as the project volunteers are to be selected from the
VDP. At the district, thana, union and village levels, Nutrition Management Committees will be set up
with representatives from the various ministries and departments involved. Annex 13 presents an
organizational chart for the project.
4.4        NGO Involvement. This project has been designed to include a major role for NGOs in its
implementation. In view of BRAC's expertise in community-based nutrition activities, BRAC has been
more closely involved in this project's preparation and is expected to continue its participation in
implementation as well. However, NGO participation has not been limited to BRAC; others such as
Hellen Keller International, CARE, Grameen Bank, and Save the Children Fund (US & UK) are also
interested and would be involved. Two modalities of NGO support to project implementation will be
adopted: (a) some thanas will be wholly contracted out to NGOs for the management and implementation
of all CBNC activities; in each of these thanas, a selected NGO will take the full responsibility for all
activities, including the recruitment and training of the various field personnel, community mobilization,
procurement, preparation, packaging and delivery of food supplements, payment of salaries/honoraria and
allowances, procurement of equipment and supplies, quality control, supervision and monitoring and IEC
activities; they would use the existing GOB systems for the provision of Primary Health Care services
as necessary and for inter-sectoral coordination; they will provide monitoring reports to GOB on an
agreed format and periodicity; (b) in the other thanas, GOB will use its own management structure to run
the project activities, assign Assistant Thana Family Planning Officer as Thana Nutrition Coordinator,
recruit the community nutrition promoters and organizers from the VDP (see paragraph 2.30 above) as
far as possible, procure equipment and supplies and be responsible for monitoring and administrative
supervision of field personnel; NGO support will be provided in the following key areas: community
mobilization, training and technical supervision of field personnel, logistics of preparing, packaging and
supplying food supplements, including quality control. The terms of reference for NGO involvement in
project implementation were discussed during the Negotiations, and will be finalized at the Project Launch
Workshop, taking account of IDA's comments. Agreement was reached during Negotiations that GOB
will enter into an agreement with one or more organizations acceptable to IDA, and in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, which will govern such organizations' participation in
the field-level activities under the project.
4.5        Implementation Schedule. CBNC is to be phased in to cover six thanas in the first year.
Then, after a review at the end of two years, 17 more thanas are to be included in each of the third and
fourth years. The broad implementation schedule of project activities is shown in annex 14; more
detailed action plans for each component will be included in the Project Implementation Volume.
Agreement was reached during Negotiations that by September 30, 1995, GOB will prepare and
furnish to IDA, for its concurrence, a detailed implementation and monitoring plan and thereafter
carry it out in a timely manner.
4.6        Monitoring and Evaluation. There is a separate component to ensure strong monitoring and
evaluation (para 2.21 - 2.24). This not only reflects the importance attached to these essential functions
in this project but also allows the clear and separate allocation of funds to them. Such a design also
brings together these aspects in the overall project context, since the implementing responsibility for the
components is divided between different agencies. The monitoring proposed under the project would be
the responsibility of each participating ministry and the Project Office. ISNC would be responsible for
pulling together the inter-sectoral monitoring reports. A specific provision is being made for a special
review of the first 6 CBNC thanas after two years, a mid-term evaluation at the end of three years to take
stock of project progress, glean lessons from implementation experience and determine the scope and
nature of further expansion of the project, applying mid-course corrections as may be necessary. At the
end of the project period another evaluation will be carried out. As measurable nutritional impact is
likely to take 5 to 10 years of intensive efforts, and as the project is being phased in, continuous
monitoring of process indicators is of immediate importance. But outcome indicators are also being



33
included in the baseline for purposes of eventual impact evaluation. IDA-UNICEF supervision missions
would be carried out twice a year. Annex 15 provides a tentative schedule of supervision missions,
which would review the reports derived from GOB's regular monitoring, besides holding discussions with
the Project Office and other concerned GOB officials, NGOs and development partners. Agreements
were reached during Negotiations with GOB that a review system would be established and carried
out and that progress reports will be furnished to IDA at the semi-annual supervision nissions.
4.7        Funding Mechanism, Flow of Funds and Accountability. The Project Finance Cell (PFC)
which administers the donor funds under the Fourth Population and Health Project, will administer the
Special Account of the project in accordance with GOB procedures as agreed with IDA. The PFC will
function as the Treasury in accordance with the financial rules of GOB for this project. The Special
Account will be established in a scheduled bank (preferably Sonali Bank). As per the allocation in the
Annual Development Program of the project, authorization for release of funds will be obtained from the
Ministry of Finance at the beginning of the fiscal year and PFC will then release funds in favor of the
Project Director on a quarterly basis, in advance. The Project Director will then place the funds at the
disposal of Assistant Thana Family Planning Officer who will be the Drawing and Disbursing Officer at
the Thana level. This Officer will disburse the funds to cover salaries and operating expenses to CNP
and CNO every month. The Project Director will also release funds on a quarterly basis to the
implementing NGO as per the Memorandum of Understanding between GOB and the NGO. The NGO
and the Assistant Thana Family Planning Officer will be responsible for record-keeping, furnishing
expenditure statement, and vouchers as necessary, to the Project Director. The Project Director will
coordinate all financial transactions relating to the project, furnish necessary reports and returns to the
PFC and IDA for settlement of advances made and for claiming replenishment. Detailed procedures will
be developed by PFC for guiding the accounting staff at various levels and steps will be taken to ensure
that the expenditure accounting for the advances are submitted promptly. A copy of these detailed
instructions for various levels of accounting staff for this project will be included as part of the Project
Implementation Volume. No additional advances will be provided until expenditures for previous
advances have been accounted for. At the thana level, a bank account will be opened by Assistant Thana
Family Planning Officer to receive the funds from PFC. He/she will ensure timely disbursement of fund
to CNP/CNO and the NGOs. Similarly, the NGOs will have accounts to manage the project funds
effectively. ISNF will be established as a separate GOB Fund and managed by PFC. Implementing
agencies will draw funds from ISNF as per sub-project proposals cleared by ISNC and by IDA; then they
will place these funds at the disposal of appropriate field-level officials and obtain accounts of
expenditure. The ISNF will then be replenished by reimbursements from the IDA Credit against
appropriate disbursement categories for eligible expenditures. The PFC is adequately staffed and has
experience in dealing with accounts, and with procedures required by IDA. The Project Director has an
account set-up which will maintain and keep records of fund flows and expenditure. He/she, along with
PFC, will be responsible for monitoring, control and supervision of accounting administration over other
project implementing agencies.
4.8        Accounts and Audits.  The following agreements were reached with GOB during
Negotiations: that GOB will maintain records and accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices, to reflect the operations, resources and all expenditures in respect of the project; that such
records and accounts, including those for the Special Account, will be audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
that a certified copy of the reports of such audit will be furnished to IDA not later than nine months
after the end of the respective fiscal years; that such other information concerning the said records,
accounts and the audit as may be reasonably requested by IDA will be furnished by GOB; that, in
addition to the foregoing, GOB will, in respect of withdrawals made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, retain until at least one year after IDA's receipt of the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal is made, all records evidencing such expenditures; that such records
will be made available to IDA's representatives on request; that such records will be included in the
aforementioned annual audit reports; and that the report of such audit will contain a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted, together with



34
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.       V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1        The project would contribute to the following direct benefits: (a) an enhancement in GOB
capacity to formulate a sound national nutrition program and to implement it effectively; (b) an
improvement in the nutritional status of children under 2 years of age and of women and a consequent
increase in child survival rates; (c) higher status for women as a result of the project focus on women
and the social mobilization efforts under the project; and (d) increased productivity, and improved
learning capacity, as a result of improved nutritional status. Indirect project benefits include (a) a greater
acceptance of contraception as a result of improved child survival; (b) better general health status,
particularly among mothers and children; (c) consequent cost savings for the health care system and
therefore to the economy as a whole; (d) improved community organization in rural Bangladesh, which
could prove to be an advantage to other programs which do not have a grass-root level infrastructure but
need one for their activities. In view of some of its new strategies, the project is likely to yield useful
lessons on community-based nutrition efforts, not only for Bangladesh, but for other similar programs
elsewhere, especially in the South Asia region. If inter-sectoral coordination turns out to be successful,
the mechanism proposed under the project could become a model for such cooperation across the sectors.
5.2        Cost per beneficiary.  The nutritional impact would, in the first instance, be on the
population groups targeted by CBNC. In the long run, however, they would accrue to the other segments
of the population as well, because of basic changes in household behaviors related to health and nutrition;
also the benefits of preventing growth lag among children under two years would result in increasing
proportions of better nourished population as these children grow older. It is difficult to estimate the
number of beneficiaries precisely, since the impact of nutritional counseling would be felt on different
people to different degrees. Even estimating the number of immediate beneficiaries of GMP is not easy,
because depending on the nutritional status of the individuals in a given community, they would receive
varying levels of service. Counting only those women and children who might receive supplementary
feeding as project beneficiaries would result in a fallacious under-count because supplementary feeding
is not the main benefit - the project does not seek to set up a feeding program - supplementary feeding
is being used primarily as an educational tool. All the women of reproductive age group will be
contacted and would receive nutritional counseling, but pregnant and lactating women and children under
two years would receive further screening with additional counseling and those who meet nutritional
criteria would get supplementary feeding as well. In fact, a smaller number of people requiring
supplementary feeding in a given community might indicate a greater success of the project - those who
do not need it have perhaps benefited more than those who do. Moreover, calculating costs per
beneficiary does not reflect the duration for which such benefit is received; a pregnant and lactating
woman would receive supplementary feeding for anywhere from 6 to 12 months, depending on at what
point in pregnancy she gets registered; under-two children would get only 4 months of supplementation
unless they relapse into the program again. Despite these limitations annex 16 makes an attempt to
calculate the number of beneficiaries who would be screened and those who would receive supplementary
feeding. Assuming 80% coverage and taking account of the phasing scheme for the 40 CBNC thanas,
a total of 3,144,320 women and children are estimated to be screened for malnutrition over the 6-year
project period and 1,946,400 of them are estimated to receive supplementary feeding. Since the total cost
of CBNC is estimated at US$ 32.6 million, the unit cost per beneficiary screened and counseled would
amount to US$10.37. This compares with the US$9.08 per child in the BRAC's pilot initiative and with
US$9.41 for 1984-85 in the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project. These calculations should be taken
merely as indicative of rough unit costs. They would work out much lower if the denominator were to
include all the women of reproductive age and all children; in fact, the spill-over benefits of behavioral
change would accrue to other family members too.



35
5.3        Assessing the number of beneficiaries of other components is even more difficult, since their
benefits would be spread over the whole country. Suffice it to say that the costs of initiating a national
nutrition program as envisaged under this project are a small fraction of expenditures incurred by
Bangladesh already on ensuring food security or providing health care services. A recent estimation by
UNICEF based on productivity gains and on savings due to reductions in morbidity and mortality puts
the benefits of a successful nutrition program at $6.92 for every dollar spent on it.
B. Risks
5.4        Weak GOB capacity may impede the implementation of project activities. The project seeks
to reduce this risk in several ways. It would phase the introduction of CBNC while working to enhance
implementation capacity. It would support a strong project office assisted by Management and Technical
Support Team. It also provides for very substantial NGO participation and considerable technical support
is also expected to be given by UNICEF. It includes a specific component on Program Development and
Institution Building and makes expansion of its activities contingent on the outcome of a mid-term review.
5.5        Inter-sectoral action and its coordination may be difficult to accomplish due to possible lack
of interest, awareness and/or initiative among the relevant line ministries because they have traditionally
seen nutrition as the responsibility of MOHFW and because they have not commonly made the link
between their sectoral activities and nutrition. The establishment of a separate ISNF would provide
additional resources to generate such interest, and the ISNC should help mitigate the risk of poor
intersectoral coordination.
5.6        The risk that the VDPs and VDP leaders may be ineffective in their tasks as CNPs and
CNOs respectively would be minimized by careful formulation and pre-testing of job descriptions and
work routines, gradual phasing of implementation, strong training and supervision support at the field
level and effective monitoring and review mechanisms. The NGOs would bring additional resources to
training and supervision.
C. Sustainabiity
5.7        The issue of sustainability has mnanagerial, technical and.financial dimensions. It has to be
addressed through political commitment, institutional capacity, and community empowerment as well as
financial considerations. The resources required should be viewed based on national investment
priorities. To ensure fnancial sustainability, adequate commitment on the part of GOB to continue
project activities beyond the project period and a long-term interest on the part of the development
partners are essential. The current level of GOB commitment to addressing malnutrition is high. For
such commitment to continue, investments in nutrition have to be seen from a strategic perspective both
by the Government and by the international development assistance agencies; expenditure on nutrition
should be correctly viewed as investment in human capital, an essential pre-requisite for overall
development. A key determinant of future financial commitment by GOB and its development partners
will be the successful implementation of this project, as it is the first of its kind in Bangladesh.
5.8        Recurrent cost implications are discussed in para 3.6. However, these expenditures would
not be incurred indefinitely, as CBNC in its present form would be a time-bound intervention, say for
10-15 years in an area; once the prevalence of malnutrition is brought down to manageable levels,
minimal program inputs integrated into primary health care services should suffice. However in the event
that CBNC proves to be beneficial in the first 40 thanas, there would obviously be additional costs in
expanding project activities to other thanas and in continuing the activities in the 40 thanas beyond the
first project period of 6 years. The recurrent costs of such continuation are estimated at about $70,000
per thana per year and the investment costs, at about $150,000 per year. Considering that the recently
abandoned Palli Rationing Scheme incurred $60 million annually in food costs alone, the recurrent cost
implications of CBNC are not unaffordable by Bangladesh. At $220,000 per thana per year, $60 million



36
would finance CBNC in nearly 300 thanas simultaneously. These costs could also be staggered over a
longer period of time, by opting for a phased expansion of CBNC activities. Political will and
implementation capacity would be more significant factors than the costs, in deciding whether nationwide
expansion is immediate or phased. It is expected that all costs of expansion would be borne by follow-on
projects under the development budget, and not absorbed into GOB's revenue budget, as eventually, the
project activities are to be completely phased out.
5.9         With regard to the managerial dimension of sustainability, a separate Project Office with
a sufficiently high-level leadership, a Management and Technical Support Team to assist the Project
Office and an inter-sectoral cell in MOHFW are included to provide a strong institutional base for the
project. The extent to which NGO participation in the project implementation is being proposed is a
welcome innovation and would really go a long way in bolstering management capacity. The extent to
which UNICEF plans to provide technical support is another factor contributing to managerial capacity.
5.10        In the long term however, sustainabilitv of the benefits from nutrition interventions is more
important than sustaining the project activities. This project is being proposed on the basis that the
interventions are time-bound.  Sustainability of benefits will depend more on the communities'
understanding of their nutrition problems, their ability to articulate their demands for program assistance,
and their involvement in appropriate action for improvement. A major aim of CBNC is to create this
capacity for community assessment, analysis and action. The proposals to use community interest and
commitment as criteria for entry to the project and to build the central project strategies on IEC at the
household levels would contribute significantly to this aim. The conceptual basis is to help people help
themselves - by targeting their behaviors - rather than to give hand-outs, creating dependence. The
activities to be performed by CNPs in rural Bangladesh would provide a unique opportunity for the
women to interact on other social issues at the village level. This could bring about a synergy between
the various activities impinging on the well-being of families, using nutrition as a thematic center of
community welfare in its broad sense. This is feasible because nutrition is closely related to health,
family planning, education, women's development, agriculture, rural development and other areas that
affect the day-to-day life of the village folk. Moreover, since CNPs are drawn from the community, they
are more likely to continue to be an active locus of social mobilization beyond the project period. This,
combined with the project's inter-sectoral approach provide for inherent technical sustainability of its
strategies.



37
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1        During negotiations, agreements were reached with GOB that
(a)   before December 31, 1996. a review of the major national level institutions active in nutrition
or related fields in the country will be carried out, results shared with IDA, and
recommendations implemented, taking account of IDA's comments and suggestions (para 2.16);
(b)   before CBNC activities are begun in a thana, a baseline survey of nutritional status will be
carried out according to TOR and methodology acceptable to IDA (para 2.24);
(c)   by the end of the third year of project implementation, i.e., by June 30, 1998, a mid-term
evaluation of the project will be conducted through independent professional experts, as per
TOR acceptable to IDA (para 2.24);
(d)   a review system will be established and carried out for the project, and GOB will provide
progress reports to semi-annual IDA-UNICEF Supervision Missions (para 2.24 and 4.6);
(e)   promptly after Credit signing, ISNF will be established and operated in a manner satisfactory
to IDA (para 2.34);
(f)  ISNC will be maintained and operated with the authority to clear sub-project proposals to be
financed through ISNF, based on criteria agreed with IDA, each of such proposals to be subject
to prior review and approval by IDA (para 2.35);
(g)   by June 30, 1996, and by December 31, 1996, thanas for introducing CBNC in the third and
fourth years respectively will have been selected as per criteria agreed with IDA (para 2.38);
(h)  the Project Office with adequate staff, funding and other facilities will be maintained and
operated and by September 30, 1995, a Management and Technical Support Team will be
established and maintained to assist the Project Office with necessary expertise, both as per
TOR acceptable to IDA (para 4.3);
(i)   GOB will enter into an agreement with one or more organizations acceptable to IDA, and in
accordance with TOR satisfactory to IDA, which will govern such organizations' participation
in the field-level activities under the project (para 4.4);
(j)   by September 30, 1995, GOB will prepare and furnish to IDA, for its concurrence, a detailed
implementation and monitoring plan and thereafter carry it out in a timely manner (para 4.5);
(k)   project accounts, including those of disbursements made on the basis of statements of
expenditure and of withdrawals made from the Special Account, will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and such audit reports will be furnished to IDA within nine months
of the close of each fiscal year (para 4.8).
6.2        There are no special conditions of Credit effectiveness.
6.3        With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis
for an IDA credit of SDR 40.1 million (US$59.8 million equivalent) to Bangladesh on standard IDA terms
with 40 years maturity.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Lessons incorporated from earlier projects on Nutrition
This document describes specific lessons drawn from BRAC's Community Based Pilot Nutrition Initiative
and previous Bank-financed nutrition projects in other countries as gleaned from the Project
Completion Reports (PCRs) and OED evaluation studies. It also describes how these lessons have been
incorporated in the design of the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BINP).
Project/Report                               LESSONS                                              INCORPORATION IN BINP
BANGLADESH: Community          1. Involvement of the community in the production and    1. BINP proposes to use a community-based production and
Based Pilot Nutrition Initiative.    distribution of food leads to a better response to the project   distribution system for the food supplements with the help of
BRAC project in Muktagacha     initiatives, because the community owns them more.       women's groups.
(1992-94).
2. The need for strong supervision was clear.           2. BINP provides for one immediate supervisor per 10 CNPs and for
strong support from NGOs in project supervision.
3. The mothers came to the community nutrition center   3. BINP indeed seeks to enhance inter-sectoral synergies among          co
often because it offered them an opportunity to socialize  related social areas through CBNC, where the women would have a
other women.                                            forum to discuss broader issues of interest.
4. Women who came to the nutrition center found that    4. Community mobilization and development of such learning
they learnt not only from the community worker but equally   opportunities are at the center of BINP's design.
importantly from each other as well.
INDIA: First Tamil Nadu        1. The First Tamilnadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TINP-1)    1. Growth monitoring and targeted supplementary feeding with the
Integrated Nutrition Project   showed that part-time village workers, if properly trained  use of carefully selected and trained village-level workers is at the
(Cr. 1003-IN). Project         and supported, can substantially improve their community's   heart of the community-based nutrition component (CBNC) of BINP.
Completion Report, December,    nutritional status. The project demonstrated
1990                           unambiguously that growth monitoring is an effective and
Report No. 9259                feasible intervention in large scale nutrition programs. The
project showed that targeted supplementary feeding can
significantly reduce severe malnutrition.
and
oQl



Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
Projectl/Report                                LESSONS                                               INCORPORATION IN BINP
INDIA: First Tamil Nadu         2. Key to the success of TINP was great care in planning   2. The same type of attention to detail is being paid in the
Integrated Nutrition Project    and execution of process elements with unusual devotion    preparation of BINP as was done in the case of TINP-1. A detailed
(Cr. 1003-INI. Impact           to detail. Critical design features were: carefully defined  Project Implementation Volume (PIV) is already under preparation
Evaluation Report by OED.       recruitment criteria for local workers; limitation of field  with carefully identified selection criteria, training program, work
July, 1994                      worker tasks to what is manageable and high priority;     routines, etc. for the Community Nutrition Promoters (CNP) of BINP.
Report No. 13783                specification of daily and monthly work routines;          The Consultant assisting the Government on the PIV and one of the
decentralized training system; supervisory ratios which   key members of Bank missions for the project have been involved in
facilitate on-the-job training; the use of local women's  TINP and the design features mentioned in the PCR of TINP have
groups to support project activities; display of performance    been included in BINP. Supervisory ratio of 1 to 10 for BINP has
information to clients and workers at the village nutrition  been determined based on TINP experience.
center; and a management information system to rapidly
detect performance falling below norms.
3. One area in which TINP was less effective was in       3. TINP was carried out through the Department of Social Welfare,
ensuring coordination with the health services. Large-scale    while the health workers at the grass-root level belonged to the
investment in health infrastructure and supplies is not   Department of Health. This was largely responsible for the lack of
sufficient to improve performance. Complementary          coordination between the project and the health program. Taking
measures are needed on the software side.                 this lesson into account, BINP is being placed in the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare and considerable thought has been given
to establishing linkages with the health program activities.
INDONESIA: Second Nutrition      1. Five elements that underpin the relatively successful  1. BINP has chosen as its core activity, an effective intervention,
and Community Health Project    posyandu strategy for improving community nutrition and   i.e., growth monitoring and promotion, with simple technological and
(Ln. 2636-IND). Project         health: (il Choice of effective but underutilized interventions   delivery requirements; it would deliver these services in the village
Completion Report, July, 1993    with high potential demand and simple technological and   itself, at the residence of a local person through a CNP selected from
Report No. 11997                delivery requirements; (ii) coordinated delivery of those  the community; community ownership would be ensured through
interventions, at predictable times and at easily accessible    initial activities of community mobilization with the help of NGOs;
places; (iii) a strong sense of community ownership; {iv) a  one of the criteria for choosing project villagers is the willingness of
broad national consensus; and (v) promotion based on      the community to contribute resources to the project, e.g., physical
social marketing methodology.                             accommodation for the community nutrition center. There is broad
national consensus on the project. Social marketing approaches are
also contemplated in the preparation and delivery of food
supplements for the project.
2. Involvement of all existing, relevant bureaucracies    2. BINP preparation involved all the relevant bureaucracies and
increases and strengthens their interest and commitment.  NGOs; the inter-sectoral component involves several relevant line
ministries.
toa
W.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
Project/Report                                 LESSONS                                               INCORPORATION IN BINP
3. The need to build a strong Project Directorate, with the    3. BINP does provide for a strong Project Office with adequate staff
capacity to coordinate and supervise the project activities.    and facilities.
4. The availability of flexible program operations support  4. BINP provides for an Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Fund, part of which
fund was an excellent strategy.                           would be kept open-ended to fund activities considered necessary at
a future date in the project period, in a flexible manner.
5. The inclusion of a mid-term review in the design of the  5. BINP also provides for a mid-term review and makes further
project - gave the responsible agencies a sense of        expansion of the project activities subject to the findings of the
accountability; it provided good advice on how to improve  review.
the quality of implementation and adjust planned
expenditures in light of project experience and changed
economic environment.
GUINEA-BISSAU: Population,      1. It is important to identify weaknesses of implementing  1. BINP has identified community mobilization, training and logistics
Health and Nutrition Project (Cr.  agency and design projects that are realistically       of preparing and delivering food supplements as the main areas of
1800-GUB). Project              implementable.                                            potential weakness in the Government implementation. Therefore,
Completion Report. April, 1993                                                             NGOs will be contracted to undertake these activities even in those
Report No. 11759                                                                           thanas where the Government would manage the project.
2. Technical assistance is an essential component in cases    2. Besides the NGO support, UNICEF, Dhaka and the Institute of
in which the capacity of the sector agencies is low.      Nutrition, University of Mahidol would provide technical support.
3. Foreign consultant should not work without national    3. BINP does provide for national counterparts to work with
counterpartls).                                           expatriate consultants. The project would basically be run by
Bangladeshis with technical assistance from foreign experts only
where necessary.
-Or
X



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
Project/Report                                 LESSONS                                               INCORPORATION IN BINP
COLOMBIA: Integrated            1. The failure of monitoring and evaluation system made a    1. BINP has a separate component on monitoring and evaluation,
Nutrition Improvement Project    satisfactory assessment of most components all but       with distinctly identified resources; BINP provides for a baseline
(Ln. 1487-CO). Project          impossible.                                               survey in each thana before introducing project activities.
Performance Audit Report,
April, 1988.
Report No. 7180)
2. The effectiveness of a supra-ministerial coordinating  2. Originally BINP proposed to have the inter-sectoral coordination
agency depends on favorable political climate for nutrition;    function located at the Prime Minister's Office. The current proposal
the coordinating entity would benefit from closer ties with a   is to have an Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Cell (ISNC) located at the
line agency - an institutional arrangement similar to that of    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which is the line ministry for
Fondo DRI, created within the Ministry of Agriculture.    the project. This proposal falls in line with the lesson from
Colombia.
3. A four year implementation period for a multisectoral  3. BINP is scheduled to be completed in six years (while the original
project is not realistic. The Bank had been successful in  idea was for a 5-year project), in view of the generally experienced
changing the project time-table from three to four years.  need for a longer time.                                                   _
The project took seven years to implement.
4. It is important to distinguish between research tasks for   4. The Bank does not impose any of its own research priorities on
which the borrower feels a real need and is committed to,  Bangladesh through BINP. The research priorities under BINP would
versus those of primary interest to the Bank. When the    be identified under the Program Development and Institution Building
Bank's research priorities are not accepted by the borrower,   component by the Government of Bangladesh, with the assistance
the Bank needs to finance its own research.               of the Bank and UNICEF provided only on Government request.
cAl



42
Annex 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Selection Criteria - Sites for Coimunity-Based Nutrition Component
1.        Select at least one district per division, to allow testing in
different environments.
2.        Cover about half the thanas in a given project district:
(a) to permit selection of thanas with appropriate conditions (see 3-7
below);
(b) to allow for competition between thanas for entry into the project;
and
(c) to allow a reasonable number of districts to be in the project,
while avoiding scatter all over the country. In practice, for a 40
thana project, this would mean about 8 districts.
3.        Choose districts and thanas representing a range of grades of food
distress, as defined by the methodology of WFP, which employs a combination of
socio-economic and ecological factors.
4.        Districts, and thanas within districts, which are most disaster-
prone will be avoided, since this project is not designed to cope with post-
disaster malnutrition. Regions which are particularly prone to flood or
cyclone would be ruled out if the probability of occurrence is likely to
undermine project effectiveness.
5.        To be eligible, thanas must have a basic health infrastructure,
i.e. a properly staffed THC with in-patient beds and full or near full
coverage of staffed FWCs. Presence of government or non-government nutrition
activities would also be desirable.
6.        Thanas with and without the PHC intensification program should be
included in the project.
7.        only thanas with at least 80% of infants fully immunized will be
included. This is both a sign of effective health care outreach and of
community willingness to participate in such programs.
Thanas within a district which satisfied the above criteria would compete for
entry to the project based on interest in the project and willingness to
contribute local resources. Possible local contributions might be: a place
for training CNPs; a share of the honorarium of the local CNP; a site and
labor to build a village nutrition center; a share of the supplementary food,
in cash or kind; a commitment to seek, through the inter-sectoral component,
assistance to improve the food security of the families of severely
malnourished children. The mechanism of competition of thanas for entry into
the project will be developed by the Government, in agreement with IDA, during
the first two years of the project.



43
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Program Development and Institution Building
1.        Any national initiative to mitigate the problem of malnutrition can
only be sustained if a strong political commitment is in place and efforts to
build the national institutional capacity are accorded a high priority. The
political commitment has to be translated into an effective national program
which highlights the significance of nutrition in the context of overall
development and recognizes the imminence of the need to solve the nutrition
problem without waiting for improvements in socio-economic status which are
likely to take a long time to take effect and will not automatically eliminate
malnutrition.
2.        One of the first steps in this direction is to consolidate the
progress made so far in terms of the draft national nutrition policy which has
already undergone several iterations; more important than giving the policy an
official status is to obtain consensus on the content of the future program.
Other important actions which are necessary for program development and
institution building are: the development of a critical mass of human
resources at the national level with a high degree of expertise and the
promotion of appropriate research that can stimulate and feed into an
effective national nutrition program.
3.        The Prime Minister has provided the lead for a strong national
nutrition program by agreeing to chair the nutrition council and promoting the
aspiration of "Daal Bhat" for everyone. This initiative still needs to be
expanded to include nutritional aspects and then operationalized.
Institutional review and streamlining of roles:
4.        The project provides for a comprehensive review of the current
roles and capacities of existing national level institutions/agencies which
undertake various types of activities related to nutrition. Some such
institutions are the Bangladesh National Nutrition Council (BNNC), the
Institute of Public Health Nutrition (IPHN), Institute of Nutrition and Food
Sciences (INFS) in the Dhaka University, Institute of Food Sciences and
Technology (IFST) in the Bangladesh Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, and the Institute for Mother and Child Health (IMCH), being
developed under the Fourth Population and Health Project. The review would
consider NGOs and private institutions as well. The review would be
undertaken by independent professional experts experienced in carrying out
organizational reviews. The timeframe within which it is to be completed has
been agreed as before the end of 1996.



44
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
5.        The purpose of the review would be to recommend ways to strengthen
institutional capacity in the field of nutrition and to streamline the roles
and mandates of each institution avoiding duplication and confusion.
Human Resources for Nutrition - National Level:
6.        A solid human resources base is an essential prerequisite for any
national program to succeed. This component will attempt to develop a core
group of nutrition experts at the national level who would not only be well-
versed with the latest advances in the technical areas related to nutrition
but also aware of the programmatic issues and experiences, both national and
international.
7.        Workshops and training sessions, for nutrition focal points and
senior policy makers in the relevant line ministries will be run on a regular
basis. The main purpose of these workshops would be to create an understanding
of the conceptual framework of nutrition causality to provide an update on the
recent developments both in the field of nutrition and in nutrition related
projects around the world and encourage non-health sectors to develop
activities related to the improvement of nutritional status within their own
projects. These workshops will be organized by the Project Directorate with
the involvement of appropriate private or public institutions with the
relevant expertise.
8.        Other activities under this Subcomponent will include international
scholarships, appropriate curriculum development for existing and new courses
to be conducted by IPHN, INFS, IFST and other national institutions which are
likely to be involved in nutrition.
9.        The project also includes a technical cooperation arrangement
between GOB and the Institute of Nutrition, Mahidol University (INMU),
Thailand. This arrangement will, inter alia, provide for the twinning of a
national level nutrition institution in Bangladesh with INMU, thus allowing
for exchange of visits, fellowships and other modalities of transfer of
technology.
Research Promotion
10.       Essentially, two types of research will be pursued in the pre-
project phase and in the project: policy research and operational research.
A. Policy Research
11.       Research will be undertaken to guide the development of a National
Nutrition Program. The major areas of research will include: (a) analysis of
budgetary expenditures to identify nutrition related inputs; (b) continuing
research on food policy and its effects on food distribution and household
food security; (c) studies on the policy related determinants of malnutrition
among women, including studies on caloric expenditure; (d) studies on food



45
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
consumption behaviors, intra-family distribution of food, feeding practices,
and other caring activities that impact nutritional status; (e) studies on
production and employment patterns and their impact on the nutritional status.
12.       This list is not exhaustive and will be developed further as more
areas of concern and relevance are identified. The research agenda will be set
out by consultation between BNNC, MOHFW, the Prime Minister's office and other
interested parties. Research will be commissioned and funded by the Project
Director and will be carried out by reputable organizations in the private and
public sectors.
B. Operational Research
13.       The major focus of the operational research will be on the
implementation of community based nutrition interventions. Research will
determine the feasibility of selected approaches and will continue as needed
throughout the duration of the project. The research agenda for this
particular component will include areas of implementation, management and
impact of food subsidies, impact of communication activities, development of
effective means of community involvement, the role of local agencies,
including non-governmental organizations. While not strictly a research
activity, a comprehensive baseline study is required, including both
quantitative and qualitative indicators of the determinants of malnutrition.
This study would be carried out by a national institution which would then
follow through with further research activities to determine change, impact or
failure.
14.       The second major area for operational research will be in the field
of nutrition education and communication. Formative research will be required
to determine the methodology and contents of a nutrition communications
strategy, based on current behaviors, attitudes and perceptions of the target
audience. Further research will be necessary to evaluate the impact of IEC on
nutrition.
15.       The third area of research will be intersectoral. Research will
determine the most appropriate approaches to nutrition rehabilitation; school
health programs; nutritional surveillance and monitoring both nationally and
in selected communities at risk; identification and coordination of various
sectoral activities that impact on nutrition.
16.       Further possible areas for operational research include: food
fortification with micronutrients, the development of an urban nutrition
strategy, and food quality assurance issues.
Strenqthening of the Banaladesh National Nutrition Council (BNNC)
17.       In the past BNNC has met infrequently, and its secretariat has not
had adequate staff with the required expertise. One of the sub-components
under the Fourth Population and Health Project (FPHP) provides the necessary



46
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
finances to strengthen BNNC in this regard. Funds are also being provided for
supporting BNNC in terms of physical facilities and technical assistance.
C. The Secretariat of the Bangladesh National Nutrition Council
18.       The Secretariat of BNNC once considerably strengthened with senior
professional capability, would be in a position to provide the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare and other line Ministries with the necessary advice
on the development and implementation of nutrition components. The Prime
Minister's office and Planning Commission will both require technical support
on the feasibility and appropriateness of nutrition related projects proposed
by line Ministries. NGOs and other private sector organizations involved in
nutrition will benefit from clear advice and leadership in developing cost-
effective nutrition interventions. For this purpose in addition to the inputs
provided for under FPHP, this Project may contribute further resources to BNNC
as may be necessary. As a minimum it is expected that four technically
competent and experienced individuals will be needed in addition to an
experienced and competent manager who would lead the BNNC Secretariat.
19.       In view of the need for considerable efforts to be put into the
community based nutrition interventions, IEC, project monitoring and
evaluation, the technical strengthening of BNNC should correspond to these
areas of expertise. Specific technical assistance (through consultancies) will
be required from project preparation stage and should therefore be funded
prior to the effective date of the nutrition project possibly through FPHP.
Given the diversity of the tasks involved in designing and implementing a
community based nutrition project it is likely that in the initial phases and
intermittently throughout the project there will be an additional need for
short term consultancies. The consultants and project personnel will work
closely with the existing staff of the BNNC, IPHN and MOHFW.



47
Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
1.        The component on IEC development has been included mainly to
develop messages and materials for use in the project, though these materials
could be used in nutrition activities outside the project thanas as well.
This component would be managed by the Deputy Project Director (IEC) within
the Project Office at the central level, but the actual tasks of formative
research, message development and material production would be contracted out
to the private sector. The media for delivering nutrition messages would be
varied - from interpersonal (counseling) to mass media. The former method
will be the primary one through the Community-Based Nutrition Component
(CBNC); thus the two components will work in a complementary fashion - the IEC
component developing messages and CBNC delivering them. The message delivery
through mass media would be done within this component itself.
Framework for Nutrition IEC Strategy
2.        The development of an overall national nutrition IEC strategy that
builds on successful experiences and establishes linkages with other IEC
initiatives in Bangladesh is one of the institutional goals of this project.
One such strategy that has been adopted in Bangladesh is based on
participatory processes which involve the elements of advocacy for national
commitment, social mobilization for partnership building and community
participation, and program communication to foster specific behavior change.
The IEC component of the proposed project will adopt this model as basis for
the development and refinements of community nutrition program IEC strategy.
3.        Advocacy consists of the organization of information to arrive at
greater consensus on the basic, underlying and immediate causes of
malnutrition and appropriate actions which should be taken to address these
problems, with a view to gaining political commitment and social leadership
for a nutrition program. This is expected to result in the development of a
nutrition policy, adequate resource allocation for the program and proper
positioning of nutrition in the overall development goals of the country. The
channels for advocacy in nutrition could include a whole range of activities
such as national conferences, workshops, speeches, special events,
appearances, field visits, newspaper coverage, magazine articles, special
publications, interactive video, general programming on TV and radio targeted
to policy makers, program planners and the general public.
4.        In the preparation of this project, a series of consensus building
workshops involving key policy-makers and program planners were conducted with
UNICEF assistance which generated a high level of awareness about the
malnutrition problem and strong political commitment to solving it. This
project will continue to support nutrition advocacy to broaden and expand this



48
Ainex 4
Page 2 of 5
political commitment at the national and local levels for implementation of a
community-based intervention and inter-sectoral programs which can feed back
into a responsive national nutrition policy.
5.        Social mobilization is the process of bringing together all
feasible and practical inter-sectoral allies to raise people's awareness of
and demand for a nutrition program, to assist in the delivery of resources and
services and to strengthen community participation for sustainability and
self-reliance. First, it includes government mobilization aimed at informing
and enlisting the cooperation and help of service providers and other
government organizations which can provide direct or indirect support. This
will be done through training programs, study visits and coverage of the
subject by the mass media. Second, community mobilization is geared at
informing and gaining the commitment of local political, religious, social and
traditional leaders as well as local government agencies, NGOs, women's groups
and cooperatives. The methods to be employed include orientation seminars,
participation in planning and media coverage to gather and disseminate
information on the expected benefits of a successful nutrition program and to
muster support for community level demand creation and partnerships.
6.        Project preparation for social mobilization will include an
analysis of who and where the potential partners are, and a participatory
definition of their respective roles in the nutrition program. This exercise
can include a series of workshops at the district, thana and union level
through a process known as VIPP or Visualization In Participatory Planning
(Attachment A). This methodology will be tested at the Thana and union level
to determine its appropriate use in consensus building on the malnutrition
problem which has also vast implications for the management, logistics
support, training and monitoring of CBNC. Initial workshops will help
organize representative bodies or implementing structures at all levels,
develop guidelines on coordinated involvement, reach agreements on priority
targets and conditionalities for access to various services such as GMP, care
of teenage girls, pregnant and lactating mothers, homestead gardens, food
distribution schemes, income generation and health services that are/will be
available in the project areas.
7.        Mobilization and demand creation for nutrition and other inter-
sectoral services will also be promoted for the program beneficiaries through
special campaigns, establishment of community discussion groups aided by
traditional or mass media and interpersonal communication. It should be based
on an in-depth and comprehensive understanding of the community's social,
cultural and economic realities. It should be planned and tested for
feasibility to ensure that demand created for nutrition and other programs in
the mobilizing process is met. A protocol for introducing CBNC into the
community will be developed and refined during the first year of project
implementation for use in subsequent project expansion.
8.        It is important that the process of social mobilization be
monitored and project management will develop some indicators in this regard.
An illustrative set of qualitative indicators is given in Annex 13 as a guide



49
Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
to determine that institutionalization, capacity building, coordination and
integration are taking place.
9.        Program communication includes the process of identifying,
segmenting and targeting specific groups/audiences with particular strategies,
materials, messages or training programs through varioUs media and
interpersonal channels, traditional or non-traditional. It incorporates some
concepts of social marketing which include behavior change as the ultimate
product, a price tag of malnutrition in terms of social cost, missed
opportunities for productivity and intellectual achievement, and the careful
design, development and delivery of the messages through formative evaluation.
This model also embraces a cyclical model of applied communication which
allows flexibility and refinements based on new information received about the
expressed perceptions and changing needs of the target audience. The conduct
of formative research, strategy and design development, materials development,
implementation and evaluation will be repeated for different themes of the
program. Initially, program communication themes for social mobilization and
GMP will be developed. It is expected that by the end of first year
implementation, a proposal for the second round of formative research will be
developed according to program needs.
Formative Evaluation
10.       The first round of formative research for program communication is
a requisite activity to be concluded before the project begins. It is
important that no production of communications materials will be made before a
formative research is completed.
11.       Adequate quantitative information and recent studies of family
practices including existing feeding patterns of children 0-36 months and
pregnant/lactating mothers are available in Bangladesh which can be used in
the preparation of formative research. Some special studies to determine
specific feeding patterns of the vulnerable groups in different ecological
zones and socio-economic groupings in the project areas may be conducted if
not enough information is yet known, particularly on the types of foods
introduced at various ages, ways of feeding young children, factors and
persons influencing those patterns.
12.       The problem identification will be initiated by a review of
literature and careful analysis of factors which promote or hinder the health
and nutrition of the vulnerable groups. It will be followed by qualitative
studies to be contracted to a research firm for an in-depth analysis of what
mothers actually do, why they practice the observed behaviors and the
important determinants of these behaviors. Participant observation, focus
group discussions and in-depth interviews will be carried out to obtain such
information and to explore the feasibility of improving those practices with
existing family resources. The findings will be used to formulate action-
oriented objectives for distinct audiences and messages will be designed,
field tested, revised and will become the basis for nutrition IEC activities.



50
Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
The resulting communications strategy will be tested for first year
implementation with continuous fine tuning as the project is scaled up.
Communication and Material Development
13.       The media production called for in the initial communications
strategy will be contracted out to appropriate production firms. The design
and strategy developed from the formative research will guide and direct
writers, artists and production personnel to prepare messages and materials
for each target audience. The weighing of all children 0-2 years and
supplementary feeding of those who are growth faltering and non-feeding of
those who are growing normally will be the central motivation factor and
communication focus in growth monitoring and promotion. Audience segmentation
will require modifications to messages accordingly. Messages will be focused
on feasible and easy to practice behavioral changes which will have positive
effect on child growth. The messages will also reinforce positive practices
while seeking to change negative ones. The emphasis for the child will be on
giving colostrum and exclusive breastfeeding, introducing appropriate semi-
solids after 6 months, supplementary feeding for growth faltering children and
feeding during illness. For mothers the emphasis will be on the need for
additional food and liquid intake during pregnancy and lactation.
14.       The media plan will include packaging of messages into attractive
discussion guidelines, curricula, teaching aids, handouts, radio and TV
messages, and field worker materials to match audiences, program needs and the
identified effective delivery channels. The standard procedure for materials
development for the prototype messages will be carried out with pretesting and
revising as required, and in consultation with the appropriate authorities.
15.       After developing the final messages, relevant groups will be
oriented and trained to use the materials and conduct the IEC activities.
These will be complemented by actions in the service delivery front. Various
channels will be used to repeat key messages. CBNC supervision plan will
include actions to monitor and supervise IEC activities adequately.
Evaluation
16.       An evaluation to show actual changes in behavior and impact on
nutritional status will be designed. This will include (a) an initial
baseline study, (b) monitoring/tracking studies, as appropriate and (c) final
or summative evaluation.



51
Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
Attachment A
Visualization in Participatory Planning (VIPP)
1.        Most workshops, seminars and training sessions in Bangladesh and
other countries are essentially formal affairs where participants are required
to listen to a large number of speeches from a dais set rigidly before rows of
chairs or a board room style table. Hierarchical relationships are strictly
adhered to. Speakers come with fixed positions on various subject matter and
attempt to pass on information in lectures, relying on their wit and charm to
keep audiences receptive. Very often discussion sessions consist of another
series of formal speeches with little or no feedback. Much of the content of
speeches is lost to audiences.
2.        The methodology used in VIPP is a direct attempt to break down a
passive "seminar culture". Although many people may be familiar with
participatory methods, VIPP is different. It relies on the preparation of a
large number of cards of different shapes, made from art paper of different
colors, on which the participants express their main ideas in large enough
letters or diagrams to be seen by the whole group. Private note taking is not
allowed. Participants are asked to stick to the rule of one idea per card.
They are asked to synthesize their thoughts, or the thought of others, on
these cards and to display the cards on moveable boards.
3.        By this method, everyone takes part in the process of arriving at a
consensus. Less talkative participants find a means of expression and those
who might normally dominate a group lose control and are forced to let others
have their say. By visualizing the group's main proceedings, repetition and
circularity in arguments are reduced. If there is a record of the group's
progress, visible to everyone, it is easier to point out such repetition.
4.        The rule of one idea per card is important.  Flip charts with long
lists of ideas allow only part of the group process to be visible at one time.
Some of the ideas are flipped out of sight. It is possible to pin or tape
flip chart paper to a wall or board. However, it is difficult to separate
individual ideas, move ideas to other groupings or categories or to collapse
the ideas of two sub-groups, ruling out redundancy. If there is one idea per
card, all of this is possible. Individuals and sub-groups can identify their
own work and see how it fits in with the thoughts of the group as a whole.
5.        Finally, with this methodology, it is not necessary to take
extensive notes. The proceedings of the workshop, visible to all, can be
photographed an a report written from them.



52
Annex 5
Page 1 of 15
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities
The assessment of UNICEF and the project preparation missions showed that
current activities on vitamin A supplementation and iodine supplementation to
populations at risk need improvements in their management and effectiveness
but no additional resource requirements were identified. However, additional
resources were found to be necessary to strengthen the activities on the
control of nutritional anemia and on the promotion of breast-feeding.
Therefore, this component will primarily finance these two sets of activities.
This annex provides draft proposals on both these activities. (In the case of
vitamin A and iodine, some strengthening could be done within the framework of
CBNC in its thanas).
Control of Nutritional Anaemia
1.   Background/problem statements:
1.1       Nutritional anaemia is a serious public health problem in
Bangladesh. Although anaemia is widespread in the country, it specially
affects women in the reproductive age group and young children. Nutrition
Survey of rural Bangladesh 1981-82 shows about 50% pregnant and lactating
women are anaemic. Recent analysis of data of 393 pregnant women from MCHTI-
Azimpur shows that only 0.5% pregnant women in their third trimester had
haemoglobin level above normal value (11 gm/dl or above). Remaining 99.5%
suffered from anaemia of which 66% falls under severely anaemic category
having haemoglobin level 8 gm/dl or less.
1.2       Nutritional anaemia due to Iron Folic Acid deficiency, is directly
or indirectly responsible for about 20% of maternal deaths in Bangladesh.
Anaemia is also a major contributory cause of high incidence of prematurity,
low birth weight, postpartum hemorrhage and perinatal morbidity and mortality.
Improved haemoglobin levels in the blood would reduce tissue anoxia caused by
hemorrhage and may well reduce death due to hemorrhage. Furthermore, one gram
increase in haemoglobin level per 100 ml of blood had been reported to
increase the birth weight of a child by 50 gm. Improvement in anaemic status
among labor force increases their work output and productivity.
1.3       Existing programme to control anemia at national level lacks clear
policy guideline, operation details and coordination among various
implementing agencies resulting unsatisfactory coverage and impact.
2.        Goals and Obiectives: The goal for control of anaemia for BINP has
been developed in line with the International Conference on Nutrition and the
World Summit for the Children goal and as national target to be reached by the



53
Annex 5
Page 2 of 15
year 2000. The goal has been set as realistic one to be achieved in about
project life within areas where project activities will be carried out.
Goal: Reduction of iron deficiency anaemia among children
and pregnant and lactating women.
This particular project will also contribute in partly reduction of following
nutrition goals set for the nation:
(a) Reduction of the rate of low birth weight by half;
(b) Improvement of maternal nutritional status during pregnancy;
(c) Reduction in infant mortality rate.
3.   Strategies:  Considering the magnitude and the seriousness of the
problem, the immediate and longer term actions are required to:
3.1       Directly attack the problem, targetting to the most vulnerable
groups within operation areas particularly among pregnant and lactating women
instead of blanket coverage for total population;
3.2       A sustained improvement in the anaemia status by a more holistic
and intersectoral approach along with other components of the project,
particularly through intersectoral activities.
3.3       Specific strategies:
(a) Clear targetting strategies for supplementation;
(b) Establishing an effective coordination with CBNC and intersectoral
activities;
(c) Establish linkages and effective referral system with existing
health facilities/outlets at project operation areas;
(d) Operation research on alternative approaches.
4.   Interventions:
4.1       Iron and Folic acid supplementation to all pregnant and lactating
women (PLW) in the project areas:
(a) among admitted group for supplementary feeding in the nutrition
centres;
(b) all other PLW while they encounter with other health facilities
during ante and post natal visits;



54
Annex 5
Page 3 of 15
Recommended doses:
(i) For pregnant and lactating women - 60 mg of iron and 250 mg of
folate twice daily OR
(ii) Same doses twice weekly.
4.2       Treatment of severe anaemia with injectable form of iron.  Women
with severe anaemia (< 8 gm/dl) will be referred to nearest health facility
(Family Welfare Centre) for treatment.
4.3       Promote increase intake of iron and Vitamin C containing foods
through health education while they will be admitted in the feeding centres on
relevant topics.
4.4       Training for Nutrition workers and other health worker where
necessary.
*    Ensure the training manual/module for nutrition workers contain
appropriate information viz. effect of anaemia on pregnant &
lactating mothers, prevention through consumption of iron rich
foods and iron supplementation dose for supplementation,
identification, and referral of severely anaemic women.
*    Incorporation of these topics into ongoing and future training
courses for health and family planning workers.
4.5       Operations research:  Some reasons for non-success of
supplementation and non-compliance to treatment are thought to be
gastrointestinal side effects and failure to take regular daily doses. The
frequency of side effects are related to the dose of iron. Weekly doses might
be better tolerated, and improve compliance rate. Provision would be kept in
the project to try out both options (regular daily dose and bi-weekly doses)
in different thanas before universalization of one method.
S.        Management:  Following service outlets of Health & Family Planning
Directorate would be used:
5.1       Satellite/Outreach Sites:  For pregnant and lactating women not
admitted in feeding centre:
(a) During 1st dose of TT: one month supply (60 tablets)
(b) During 2nd or booster dose of TT: two to three months supply (120-
180 tablets) depending on the month of pregnancy when 2nd or
booster dose is received. This include one month supply for 1st
month of lactation.
(c) During 1st dose of DPT: One month supply (60 tablets) to mothers
those who accompany their children for 1st dose of DPT.



55
Annex 5
Page 4 of 15
(d) Treatment for severe anaemia.
5.2       Nutrition Centre: Iron and Folate supplementation only for pregnant
and lactating women admitted in the nutrition centres as per above schedule.
5.3       Family Welfare Centre and UHC:
(a) One month supply (60 tablets) during each contact for antenatal and
postnatal check-up.
(b) Treatment for severe anaemia.
6.        Supply:
6.1       Satellite/Outreach sites, FWC and UHC: From Health and Family
Planning Directorate in EPI plus Kit and FWC D&DS Kit.
6.2       Packaging: 30 and 60 tablets in a polythene self sealing bag marked
for pregnant and lactating mothers from nutrition centre and other outlets
respectively.
7.        Cost: Project envisage a total cost of US$6200 for each thana.  In
addition a total of US$350,000 would be required for training/communication
and research. The cost is based on following assumptions:
(a) Four percent of the total population is pregnant at one point of
time;
(b) One third of the anaemic cases are in severe form (<8 mg/dl) who
would require therapeutic treatment by injectable iron;
(c) Coverage rate would be 80% through various health and nutrition
outlets;
(d)  1000 tablets cost US$1.6 (UNIPAC, Copenhagen rate)
(e) All cases including severe form would require total 250 tablets per
women treated for a period of total 4 months.



56
Annex 5
Page 5 of 15
Target/Cost             Village        Union         Thana         Total
Cost/Thana
a.  Iron supplementation:
i.  PLWs                32             320           6400
Cost                16             160           3200          US$3200
Sub-total                                                      US$3200
b. Injectable Form:
ii. Severe cases        10             200           2000
Cost               15              300           3000          US$3000
(@US$1.5/case)
Sub-total                                                      US$3000
TOTAL                                                              US$6200
Other activities (for the total project period):
(a) Operation research US$150,000
(b)  Training/Communication                 US$200,000



57
Page 6 of 15
8.        Breastfeedinc Procram in Bancladesh
Project Summary
1.    Name of the Project                   Campaign for the Protection &
Promotion of Breastfeeding (CPPBF)
2.    Sponsoring Ministry                   Ministry of Health & Family Welfare
3.    Implementation Agency                 Ministry of Health & Family Welfare
and Campaign for the Protection &
Promotion of Breastfeeding (CPPBF)
4.    Duration of the Project               1995-2000
5.    Geographical Coverage                 National
6.    Total Project Cost in $               $2,623,000
7.    Government Contribution
S.    Beneficiaries                         Infants, Children & Mothers
9.    Brief Description
Breastfeeding is the traditional way of child feeding in Bangladesh
although practices deviate far from optimal. In 50% cases BF is
initiated at 48-72 hours after delivery. Colostrum is discarded in 2
out of 3 cases and practices of pre-lacteal feeding (honey, sugar water,
cow's milk water and mustard oil etc.) is almost universal. Exclusive
breastfeeding declines rapidly from 60% at birth to 5% at 5 months.
Proper and healthy Weaning practice at right time with appropriate food
are rarely done. The non ethical marketing of breastmilk substitutes
(BMS) through media and the health professionals are sources of
misinformation including beastfeeding practices. All milk powders are
considered as breastmilk substitutes and bought whenever it could be
afforded by the parents. The use of BMS is more prevalent in urban
areas. The medical institutions and health professionals are commonly
found to support unethical/practices of BMS in the hospitals/clinics and
private practices. In 1991 rooming-in was found universal for hospital
delivered babies, exclusive breastfeeding for this group was virtually
unknown. Only 2% of mothers of hospital delivered babies were advised
properly about breastfeeding.
Concerned with this situation the Campaign for protection & promotion of
Breastfeeding (CPPBF) was established as a voluntary and idealistic net
work in April, 1989 by a group of professionals from medical
Institutions, government agencies, U.N. agencies, NGOs with the active
support from UNICEF. CPPBF is the focal point for all breastfeeding



58
Annex 5
Page 7 of 15
activities in Bangladesh. Programs are implemented by the member of a
National Executive and six subcommittees through government agencies
with active partnership with NGOs. It has a skeletal staff forming the
secretariat to implement the activities.
9.        The Goal of Campaign for the Protection & Promotion of
Breastfeeding (CPPBF): The single goal of the Campaign is to significantly
lower the morbidity and mortality of children and women in Bangladesh through
successful breastfeeding.
10.       The Objectives:
(a) To achieve and sustain universal exclusive breastfeeding for the
first six months ensuring colostrum for all babies.
(b) To improve the weaning practices and encourage the continuation of,
breastfeeding for 2 years or more.
(c) To improve the nutritional status of pregnant and lactating
mothers.
11.       The following are the principal Project activities:
(a) Formulating and disseminating a National Breastfeeding Policy for
maternity/health care facilities.
(b) Advocacy and mobilization of key professionals and allies -
professionals bodies, women's group, NGO, GOB departments and donor
agencies.
(c) Institution of "Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative in hospitals
providing Maternity Services.
(d) Strict enforcement of law prohibiting free and subsidized supply of
Breast Milk Substitutes (BMS) in all health facilities.
(e) Comprehensive planning for all health service providers (GOB as
well as NGO).
(f) Under taking relevant Research.
(g) Communication for the promotion of BFHI, exclusive breastfeeding
and appropriate weaning.
(h) Tradition for Creation of "Mother Friendly Work" place for the
Working Women.



59
Annex 5
Page 8 of 15
Background/Problem Statement
11.       Problem:
11.1      Breastfeeding is the traditional way of childfeeding in Bangladesh
although the practices deviate far from optimal. Breastfeeding is initiated
in 50% of the cases between 48 and 712 hours when the mother feels "the milk
has come in". Colostrum is discarded in majority cases and feeding of
prelactial feeds in the form of honey, sugar, water, mustard oil, cow's milk,
is almost universal. Exclusive breastfeeding is non-existing, water is given
in almost cent percent cases. Proper weaning practices in terms of right time
appropriate food and amount are absent. Semi-solid foods are introduced
before 4 months of age among one fifth of the infants. About one third
infants are given solid food at the age of 6-12 months. The type of
complementary foods given are usually rice gruel which lacks in energy
density. the frequency and amount are not enough to meet the requirement of
the growing baby. The total duration of breastfeeding is shorter among urban
elites. At 12 months 20 percent of the urban elites continued breastfeeding
compared to 30 percent of poor urban and 80 percent of the rural children
continued breastfeeding at 24 months.
11.2      The non ethical marketing of breastmilk substitutes (BMS) through
media campaign and health professionals are amongst the major sources of
misinformation for patents. all milk powders are considered as BMS and is
bought whenever it can be afforded. The use of BMS is more prevalent in urban
areas. Many medical institutions and professionals use or prescribe BMS
indiscriminately.
11.3      Government's Commitment to the Campaign and Global Goal: The Goal
for Campaign for the Protection and Promotion of Breastfeeding (CPPBF) in
Bangladesh is to empower all women to breast feed their children exclusively
for six months and to continue breastfeeding, with complementary food, well in
to second year. This goal was adapted globally in the World Summit for
Children in 1990, which subsequently was ratified by the Government of
Bangladesh. The strategy to achieve this goal the "Baby Friendly Hospital
Initiative (BFHI)" has been promoted globally by UNICEF and WHO in June 1991.
The Government of Bangladesh has shown its political commitment by signing the
"Dhaka Declaration" by the hon'ble Prime Minister, the hon'ble President and
hon'ble Minister of Health and Family Welfare pledging the support, protect
and promote breastfeeding.
11.4      To achieve the Goal for breastfeeding in Bangladesh the GOB with
the assistance from UNICEF has fixed a "Mid-Decade" goal to make all hospitals
(162) having Maternity Services "Baby Friendly" by ending free and low cost
supplies of infant formula and Breast Milk Substitute by 1995. It is further
proposed to cover by the year 2000, 700 hospitals/health facilities including
Thana Health Complexes - providing Maternity Services.



60
Annex 5
Page 9 of 15
11.5      Campaign for the Promotion and Protection of Breastfeeding (CPPBF):
Breastfeeding Promotion in Bangladesh has become active since a
Working Group consisting professionals from Government, NGO, and individuals
met regularly since 1989. Subsequently the CPPBF was created in January 1991
by the initiative of UNICEF and a group of volunteers of professionals from
Government, Medical Institution and NGO's. Since then CPPBF is considered as
the focal point for all breastfeeding activities in Bangladesh. It now
functions as the central authority on Breastfeeding in Bangladesh.
11.6      CPPBF has a structure of one Executive Committee supported by other
six sub-committees. All members of the executive and sub-committee work as
volunteer. The members of the Executive Committee met at least once in a
month and decide on policy issues and day to day implementation of the various
programs. The six sub-committees implement the activities as outlined in the
annual work plan. The day to day activities and the management of various
programs are under taken by the skeletal staff forming the CPPBF Secretariat -
which provides:
(a)  the meeting facilities for the executive and sub-committees;
(b)  acts as an information enter for resource papers and publication on
breastfeeding;
(c)  acts as distribution point for communication material; and
(d)  provides the secretarial support and coordinates the various
programs.
11.7      Relation with Government Program:
(a)  The CPPBF activities are covered under the Community Food and
Nutrition Program of the Institute of Public Health Nutrition.
(b)  Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is responsible for ensuring
that the hospitals under their care (at national, district and
subdistrict levels) are "Baby Friendly". NGO's undertake advocacy
for exclusive breastfeeding. Professional bodies including doctors
and nurses associations are promoting the changes necessary in the
institutions under their jurisdiction, and undertaking training of
other health personnel.
12.       Financing of CPPBF:
12.1      Since inception CPPBF remained under the umbrella of UNICEF which
has been the single source of all financial support for:
(a) The various activities/programs;



61
Annex 5
Page 10 of 15
(b)  Salary for the staff and consultants;
(c)  Establishment cost of the CPPBF Secretariat.
13.       Future Plan:
13.1      It has been decided by the Executive Committee that CPPBF will be
turned in to a "Trust". The status of Trust will permit CPPBF to accept funds
from other sources. It would turn into financially independent organization
to have better scope for planning, implementing and monitoring of its program.
It is expected that by 1995 the "Trust" will be fully functional.
13.2      To meet the increased need for various activities particularly to
make all hospitals in Bangladesh (about 700) "Baby Friendly" by the year 2000.
The facilities of the CPPBF secretariat will have to be expanded. This would
require:
(a)  a bigger office space with more physical facilities and appropriate
logistic support; and
(b)  increase in number of full time paid staff in the secretariat.
13.3      It is also proposed that to take the activities of CPPBF to the
district and sub-district levels decentralization of the CPPBF office is a
must in 5 divisions by establishing divisional centers. This is felt
necessary to (i) meet the increasing demand from the field; (ii) reduce load
on central CPPBF Secretariat; (iii) decentralization the supervision and
monitoring mechanism for BFHI and ending of free and low cost BMS; (iv) have
sustainability in the program and finally (v) to bring the whole country under
the Campaign net work.
14.       Project Activities: The following principal project activities will
be under taken in future to achieve the BF Goals in Bangladesh:
14.1      Updating the National Breastfeeding Policy for hospitals and
maternity facilities.
14.2      Continue the Advocacy and mobilization of key professionals
political will, professional allies, professional bodies, women's group, NGO's
GOB agencies/departments and donor agencies.
14.3      Institute of BFHI in hospitals providing maternity services.
14.4      Strict enforcement of the law prohibiting free and subsidized
supply of BMS in all Health facilities.
14.5      Comprehensive training for all health service providers.
14.6      Under taking relevant research.



62
Annex 5
Page 11 of 15
14.7      Communication for promotion of BFHI
14.8      Communication for promotion of mothers friendly work places for
working women.
1S.       Strategies
15.1      By the year 2000 we have to achieve Baby Friendly Hospital
initiative in all the health facilities providing maternity services. During
the period from 1995-2000 several activities and combination of various
strategies will be followed. They would be flexible enough to accommodate
required changes with regular review.
15.2      The following will be the strategy:
(a)  Creating, sustaining and supporting an effective national and sub-
national networks with GOB agencies, NGOs and other partners.
(b)  Creating, implementing and monitoring an appropriate legal
framework at all levels.
(c)  Integrating breastfeeding promotion and protection into health, FP
and other development activities of Government and NGOs programs.
(d)  Development of an effective service, research and training strategy
immediate importance to the campaign group, for the national and
directed towards achieving the goals.
(e)  Developing an effective communication strategy and promoting
community participation through advocacy, social mobilization and
program communication.
(f)  Ensuring successful breastfeeding for women in employment and
training.
(g)  Ensuring adequate child nutrition through successful infant feeding
practices.
Based on the above strategies appropriate and essential activities are
identified and an annual work plan is prepared by the members of the EC and
sub-committees in collaboration with the government counterparts and other NGO
partners.
16. Management of the Program: The management will continue to be done by
the members of the executive committee and subcommittees. Day to day
activities and implementation of various programs will be done by the Central
CPPBF Secretariat with its divisional branches.
16.1      At National level: The CPPBF Secretariat with the help of EC and
other subcommittees will continue to plan the formulation of policies,



63
Annex 5
Page 12 of 15
advocacy and lobbing at appropriate level. It will oversee the
implementation.
16.2      At divisional. District and below: Respective divisional chapters
of CPPBF and affiliated medical colleges/NGO/Institutions/Persons will
implement, manage and monitor all Breastfeeding activities. The Divisional
CPPBF secretariat will provide the secretarial support for implementation and
monitoring of all Breastfeeding activities.
16.3      The district level committees will also be formed to provide
Technical support, supervision and monitoring of activities at sub district
level.
17.       Monitoring and Review Mechanism: A high powered Advisory Committee
(comprising of 22 members) headed by the Additional Secretary of Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare has been created. An authorized person has been
appointed by the GOB to implement the code of marketing and to monitor any
violation of code and also to ensure monitoring ending distribution of free
and low cost breast milk substitute in health and maternity facilities.
Advisory Committee with the help of Code and Research Sub-committee of CPPBF
will establish an effective Surveillance System and Monitoring Mechanism at
national and sub national levels. The program will be evaluated by an
International agency at the end of Project period.
18.       Budget:
The budget for the year 1995-2000 are as follows:
Activities/Items       1996   1997   1998   1999    2000
1.  Program Support
BFHI                     95    125    170    250       350
Training & Communication  85     90     94    100      105
Monitoring & Research    33      38    115     50       65
Other Programs           20      30     36     44       52
2.   Logistic/Suppty          45      60     75    120      150
3.   Support to CPPBF         57      58     59      60      62
Secretariat at NationaL
and Divisional Levels
Total : S               335    401    479    624       784
TOTAL for
5 years = $2,623,000
Equiv. to
Taka 10,49,20,000



64
Annex 5
Page 13 of 15
18.1      The approximate cost for BFHI training has been estimated on the
basis of 700 health facilities including Thana Health Complexes (397) Private
Clinics training Maternity Services, NGO hospitals, Red Cross Maternity
Centers, Railway Hospital, Army Hospitals in MCWCs. There will be 2800
trainees for TOT. There will be 21000 staff of these 700 units for BF
Hospital training. Cost includes per diem, travel allowance for the trainees
and per diem for the trainers for monitoring officers as well as the logistics
cost.
18.2      The approximate cost for Communication and Training is estimated on
the basis of:
(a) Production of a number of Communication materials for the field
workers on the advocacy and information of breastfeeding. These
are posters, pamphlets, flash cards and information booklet.
(b) Development of Curriculum for the orientation training of the
health family planning workers working at the grass root level (out
reach centers) and VDP members working for the nutrition program in
40 thanas.
(c) One day orientation training of the health family planning grass
root level workers on the advantages & management of the
breastfeeding under the Basic Pre-package Program - (started for 15
district will eventually cover the whole of Bangladesh).
(d) Orientation of the VDP workers of 40 thanas 0 200 worker per thana
there will be 8000 such workers. One day orientation training on
the advantages of breastfeeding and management of breastfeeding.
(e) Production of 3-4 short films for display from the cinema halls and
T.V. on the various topics of breastfeeding including advantages of
breastfeeding, mother friendly work places, expression and storage
of breast milk etc.
(f) Development & production of Radio spots announcements - 3 times a
week during the peak listening hour. The radio spot will include
again topics on the advantages of breast milk for infant, mother
and family and on the weaning foods.
(g) Utilization of folk media for the advocacy of breast feeding.
(h) Observation of Breastfeeding day/week once in a year.
(i) Observation of Health fortnight twice a year including the programs
on the breastfeeding.
(j) Production of news bulletin (bimonthly) (some of these activities
will be contracted out to the media people).



65
Annex 5
Page 14 of 15
18.3      Research and Monitoring.
(a)  Approximate cost is estimated for conduction of research in the
relevant area of breast feeding - at least 4 research protocols,
dissemination of research finding through the workshops, seminars
and publications, and Research News Bulletin.
(b)  Monitoring of BFHI and BMS code through out the program area in
Bangladesh.
18.4      Other programs.
(a)  Approximate cost is provided for the attending any meeting,
workshop or training outside Bangladesh.
(b)  Provision of some incentives for the development of creche - for
the babies of working women.
(c)  Award for the "Mother Friendly Work Places".
18.5      Approximate cost is estimated for the expansion of the Secretariat
of the CPPBF. At present there is a very skeletal staff - which is:
Coordinator    -1
Lactation Management Expert-l
Administrative Asstt.-l
MLSS            -1
In view of the expansion of the activities the Secretariat needs to
be enlarged at the Central level and at the same time for better
coordination through out the country divisional coordination
committees need to be established.
It is proposed to have:
Coordinator    -1
Asstt. Coordinator-2
Accountant      -1
Admin. Asstt. -1
Lactation Management-2
Secretary       -2
Driver          -2
Night Guard    -1
Messenger/Peon -1
Cleaner         -1



66
Annex 5
Page 15 of 15
For Divisional Offices:
Asstt. Coordinator (lx5)-5
Admin. Asstt. (lx5)-5
Driver (lx5)   -5
Messenger/Peon (lx5)-5
Cleaner (lx5) -5
5.2 Logistics for the Central Office as well as Divisional
Offices.



67
Annex 6
Page 1 of 9
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Introduction
1.        There are two kinds of monitoring under consideration within this
project subcomponent: a) Nutrition Monitoring; and b) project monitoring.The
former deals with measurements of nutritional status indicators and some
parameters relating to the causation of malnutrition. It would therefore be
largely carried out within CBNC. The latter concerns the regular assessment of
project progress in terms of inputs, process, outputs and outcomes.
2.        The community-based component of the project aims at strengthening
the people's own capacity to assess their nutrition problems, understand their
causes, develop locally resource-relevant actions which the community would
own and to monitor or re-assess the results of the actions taken. Such a
process is driven by the production, communication and use of information.
3.        Experience has shown that the early establishment of a community-
based monitoring system is of great importance for project mobilization. Such
a monitoring mechanism set close to the community will act as a stimulus and a
mobilizing force resulting in greater community participation in the project.
It will also ensure that interventions are more relevant because they take
account of local conditions and are understood by the people concerned.
Information Needs
4.        In the development of any information system it is important to
identify clearly the users of the information and their needs. Obviously the
main users should be those, whose decisions affect nutrition and could be
improved by more valid and timely information.
A. Household Level
5.        As far as the young child is concerned, the parents are the first
key decision-makers. Monitoring of the child's growth provides an excellent
tool in making the problem of malnutrition visible early enough for preventive
action to be taken. The actions that can be taken by the household must be
based on an analysis of the causes of growth faltering and an assessment of
resources available at the household level. This is the
prevention/counselling part of GMP. Many households will probably need
support from outside the household in preventing malnutrition both in terms of
additional resources and advice on how they could be best used.



68
Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
B. Conmunity Level
6.        Eventually all community-based nutrition interventions will have to
be owned and driven by the communities themselves. This clearly requires some
sort of community organization which would be responsible for identifying,
assessing and addressing malnutrition within the community. Such community
organizations require an objective way of identifying the households most in
need. They require a monitoring system. Once again GMP would provide the
broad framework for such a system but the focus would be on the nutritional
status of the women and children of the community as a whole, identifying
actions to be taken at the community level in terms of using community
resources to help those who are in special need. Such decision should be
based on agreed criteria, such as 'lack of growth for two months' or 'severely
underweight' at any time. The community organization should monitor the
children selected for special treatment up to the point when their growth is
adequate. The overall nutrition situation in the community can be monitored
by the use of a community weight chart, where the weights of all children
weighed are plotted. Such an open and transparent system would help increase
the awareness of the community about the extent and nature of the problem and
catalyze a more active community involvement in its resolution.
C. Union/Thana Levels
7.        Program supervisors at Union and Thana levels also need information
about the nutritional status of the populations under their care and how it
changes over time. Depending on the actual coverage of the GMP program,
different approaches should be used. If the GMP program covers 80 percent or
more of the children, data at village level can be aggregated and sent to the
Union and Thana levels. If, however, the GMP-program does not cover 80
percent of the eligible children, a sentinel approach should be used. A
sentinel system consists of a limited number of carefully selected
villages/communities, which would provide information to higher levels on a
pre-determined regular basis.
Indicators
8.        CBNC of this project will focus on young children, pregnant and
lactating women. Weight for age will be used to monitor the nutritional
status of young children, weight for height or arm circumference for pregnant
and lactating women. Weight gain during pregnancy will also be measured.
9.        Monitoring the nutritional status will show whether the problem is
getting worse or better, but it will not show why there are changes. In order
to be able to provide the right response, information is required not only
about the nutritional outcome, but also about the reasons for it. Thus there
is a need for nutrition problem monitoring in addition to nutrition status
monitoring.
10.       Household food security, access to basic health services and a
healthy environment and adequate care of children and women are the three



69
Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
necessary conditions for nutritional well being. In order to understand which
of these conditions are not being fulfilled in a given situation, indicators
must be found to measure each of them. Some of these indicators need to be
defined as appropriate for local context. Some examples of generic indicators
are listed below:
Household food security      * per capita calorie consumption
*  price of staple foods
*  actual harvest data (food balance
sheets)
*  weight for height of adult men
* presence or absence of kitchen gardens
Caring practices             +  prevalence of exclusive breastfeeding
of children below 4 months of age
* prevalence of sustained breastfeeding
at 1 year of age
?  feeding frequency
*  energy density of complementary diet
*  ratio of food consumption by women
compared to men.
*  practice of decreasing or increasing
food consumption by pregnant women.
Health Service/Environment  *  immunization coverage (measles)
+  incidence of diarrhoea (in particular
persistent diarrhoea)
*  use of safe drinking water
*  form of excreta disposal
11.       If possible, a few resource indicators should also be obtained,
such as access to land or to other means of production, income, size of
family, and some other local-specific socio-economic indicators.
Proiect Monitoring
12.       The project will establish a project management information system
for monitoring of project inputs, process outputs, service coverage and
outcomes. The Union Local Government will be the focal point for all project
monitoring. A quarterly report based on predetermined indicators will be
prepared for the central project unit (at the national level), with one copy
to the Thana coordinator and one copy to the District coordinator. But
primarily, the monitoring will be done by the Union level worker/volunteer.
The information system will be simple, rational and need-based. The format
will be uniform and the whole system will be geared towards the least common
denominator, i.e. with the minimum strain on the workload at the grass-root
level. A two-way feedback system will ensure that the results of any analysis
performed at the central level would be shared with the grass-root level.



70
Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
Evaluations
13.       The whole project will be evaluated after two years of
implementation and at the end of the project (after five years). Each
evaluation will consist of two parts. The first part will consist of an
internal evaluation, wherein all key actors get involved in reviewing progress
at village, union, thana and district levels. Information on process outputs
and outcomes will be available through the monitoring system at each level.
Some additional studies would be commissioned to provide a more detailed
understanding of the impact of the project on nutritional status.
14.       The second part will consist of an external evaluation, which will
follow the normal procedures of the World Bank. Both success factors and
constraints should be carefully analyzed in order to facilitate necessary and
possible mid-term re-orientation of the Project.
15.       Both parts of the evaluation will be based on the specific
objectives of the project as stated at the outset, measuring performance
against the baseline situation as indicated by appropriate parameters.



71
Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Some Suggested Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
For the Project area, seven impact goals have been identified. The following
indicators will be used for monitoring the achievement of these goals:
(a)       Reduction of PEM         a.l    Proportion of under-twos who fall
among under-twos                below minus 2 standard deviations
from median weight for age of
NCHS/WHO reference population
(moderate and severe under-weight).
a.2    Proportion of under-twos who fall
below minus 3 standard deviations
from median weight for age of
NCHS/WHO reference population
(severe under-weight)
a.3    Proportion of under-twos who fall
below minus 2 standard deviations
from median height for age of
NCHS/WHO reference population
(moderate and severe stunting).
a.4    Proportion of under-twos who fall
below minus 3 standard deviations
from median height for age of
NCHS/WHO reference population
(severe stunting).
a.5    Proportion of under-twos who move
from one nutritional category to the
other in an upward direction (i.e.,
improvement)
a.5    Proportion of under-twos who move
from one nutritional category to the
other in a downward direction (i.e.,
deterioration)
(b)       Low Birth Weight        b.1    Proportion of live births that weigh
below 2500 grams.
(c)       Iodine Deficiency        c.1    Proportion of population in iodine
Disorders (IDD)                 deficient areas consuming adequately
iodized salt (Iodized salt
consumption).



72
Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
c.2    Proportion of children aged 6 to 11
years with any size of goiter
(palpable and visible combined).
c.3    Proportion of population aged 6 to
11 years with urinary iodine levels
below 10 micrograms/lOOml urine.
c.4    Proportions of women with visible
goiter
(d)       Vitamin A Deficiency   d.l    Proportion of children 2 to 6 years
of age with night blindness.
d.2    proportion of children 6 months to 6
years of age with serum retinol
below 20 micrograms/lOOml.
(e)       Iron Deficiency         e.l    Proportion of women aged 15 to 49
years with haemoglobin levels below
12 grams/lOOml blood for non-
pregnant women, and below 11
grams/lOOml blood for pregnant
women.
e.2    Proportion of children below 5 years
of age with haemoglobin levels below
12 grams/lOOml below.
(f)       Nutritional status      f.l    Proportion of pregnant women who
gain 7 kg or more during pregnancy.
(g)       Breastfeeding           g.1    proportion of infants less than 6
months (180 days) of age who are
exclusively breastfed (including
colostrum).
g.2    Proportion of children 20 to 23
months of age who are breastfeeding.
g.3    Proportion of infants 6 to 9 months
(180 to 299 days) of age who are
receiving breastmilk as
complementary food.



73
Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
Interventions and Process Measures
WHETHER MEASURED BY
SERVICES STATISTICS
INTERVENTIONS          INDICATORS                           (SS) OR SURVEY (SU)
General                t or pregnant women registered    SS
by the end of the 1st trimester.
Pre-natal Care         % of registered pregnant women    SS
receive three pre-natal
exams/counselling sessions.
Anaemia                % of registered pregnant women    SS
receive iron tablets for at
least four months
Tetanus                % of pregnant women receive two   SU
anti-tetanus shots.
Goiter                  % of pregnant women with            SS
visible goiter get iodine
capsule by end of fourth month.
PEM                    % of registered pregnant women    SS
at high nutritional risk receive
4 months of food
supplementation.
% of lactating women at             SS
nutritional risk receive at
least 6 months of food
supplementations.
Post partum care        I of registered post delivery    SS
women receive five counselling
sessions for themselves and
their infants in the first 6
months.
Vitamin A deficiency   I of registered women receive    SS
vitamin A mega-dose within 4
weeks of delivery
Family Planning        Contraceptive Prevalence Rate       SU
and Total Fertility Rate
General                Register t of 0-24 month            SS
children through quarterly
surveys.



74
Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
WHETHER MEASURED BY
SERVICES STATISTICS
INTERVENTIONS          INDICATORS                           (SS) OR SURVEY (SU)
PEM                      t of registered 0-24 month         SS
children receive at least 18 out
of 24 monthly weighing.
Additional feeds of                 SU
complementary food initiated by
6 months in infants.
% of qualifying children are fed SS
project supplement at least five
out of six days a week.
Referral of severely                SS/SU
malnourished children 0-24
months to FWV.
Vitamin A deficiency  % of registered 0-24 month            SS
children should have received 4
vitamin A mega-doses
Diarrhea                For cases of diarrhea in 0-60       SU
month children in the last two
weeks.
t given increased fluids and
continued feeding
% of those who received
treatment outside home who
received ORS.
% of mothers knowing indicators   SU
for referral.
% of cases with bloody diarrhea.
% of those referred for
diagnosis.
' of cases lasting over 14 days.
% of those referred.
Immunization           e of infants receive measles         SS/SU
vaccine
Volunteer Support       Active women's working groups       SS
(>9 meetings a year).



75
Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
Illustrative Process Indicators for Social Mobilization
in Community Nutrition Program
(IEC)
Institutionalization
1.  Broadened and continued political commitment and public support.
2.  Increase in funding from various participating sectors.
3.  Establishment/strengthening of organizational and structural support.
4.  Establishment  of  nutrition  monitoring  system  and  sustained
nutritional status surveillance at district, thana and union level.
5.  Development and use of participatory training programs.
Coordination and Integration
1.  Identification and role definition of potential partners at various
levels.
2.  Joint planning by participating sectors.
3.  Coordinated workplan and implementation schedule.
4.  Team approach: continuous dialogue with managers, supervisors,
promoters and community leaders.
5.  Integration of nutrition efforts with respective routine tasks.
Capacity Building
1.  Adequate provision  (financial, manpower support) for training and
supervision.
2.  Better understanding and appropriate response of the community to the
problem of malnutrition through a process of assessment, analysis and
action.
3.  Good prospects for expansion.
4.  Community and user's responsibility in the management of services.



76
Annex 7
Page 1 of 16
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Community-Based Nutrition Component (CBNC)
Obiectives and Rationale
A. Obiectives
1.        The overall goal of the community-based nutrition component (CBNC)
would be to strengthen communities' capacity to assess their malnutrition
problems, analyze their causes, and make better use of family, community and
outside resources to improve their nutritional status. Its specific
objectives would be to:
* develop community and family capacity to monitor nutritional
status;
* develop community and family capacity to care for vulnerable
members, especially pregnant and lactating women and very young
children;
* strengthen the outreach and quality of MCH interventions and
develop community and government capacity to target them on the
nutritionally most vulnerable; and
* develop community and government capacity to harness the
resources of local development programs aimed at increasing
income, food security and access to clean water, and target them
on the nutritionally most vulnerable.
2.        The community-based nutrition component would involve community
workers, community groups, local governments and NGOs in achieving the above
objectives.
B. Rationale
3.        This component is seen as the core of the proposed project, for the
following reasons.
(a) First, malnutrition in Bangladesh is not a problem confined to the
very poor. It exists to a significant extent even among groups
with enough resources to feed their families adequately. This
strongly suggests that increased incomes and hence greater
household food security, among the very poor will not necessarily
lead to corresponding gains in nutritional status unless
accompanied by education which results in changing the way families



77
Annex 7
Page 2 of 16
feed women and children, and care for their health. Community
education is therefore a fundamental intervention, without which
other interventions will have little impact.
(b) Second, there is evidence from the distribution of malnutrition in
Bangladesh that behavioral change can have a substantial impact on
nutrition even in the absence of increased incomes and greater food
availability to the household. High overall rates of malnutrition
tend to hide the fact that wasting, signalling current acute
malnutrition, is heavily concentrated in children under two years;
malnutrition in older children and adults consists mostly of
stunting, the product of previous episodes of wasting. The fact
that wasting falls sharply at age four and five, ages when children
are more expensive to feed, suggests that the cause of malnutrition
is not just inability to afford food.
4.        Malnutrition is in large part the effect of beliefs and customs
which result in very young children not being fed enough, as well as not
receiving adequate health care. When children are old enough to feed
themselves, as opposed to being dependent on being fed by their mothers, their
nutrition improves. The same cultural forces also affect the nutrition of
women, who in Bangladesh eat only after the rest of the family is satisfied,
and therefore tend to eat least. Pregnant and lactating women, like very
young children, have their dietary intakes controlled by custom, and cannot
easily increase them to meet their increased physiological needs.
5.        One reason that families fail to care adequately for pregnant women
and young children is that they do not realize they are malnourished.
Creating a community capacity to recognize and monitor malnutrition is
therefore a key project strategy, as is education to change customary feeding
and health care habits. Since families, feeding and health care practices are
deeply ingrained in cultural tradition, they are not easy to change; IEC based
on mass media alone is not likely to generate an appropriate response.
Husbands need to be shown that their wives are malnourished, and parents that
their children are malnourished, and then be counselled appropriately. This
can be best achieved by a face-to-face approach in the community, through the
culturally acceptable medium of a trained community worker volunteer,
reinforced by group support from the community. It is for this reason that a
community-based approach is proposed for this core component of the project.
6.        Notwithstanding the importance of behavioral change in reducing
malnutrition, many malnourished families in Bangladesh need better access to
food, safe water and health services. The project's intersectoral component
describes the key inputs required in these areas and the funding mechanisms
proposed for them under the project. But most poor families have neither the
knowledge nor the power to access such inputs and services on their own. CBNC
would therefore build village and slum communities' capacity to work with
local governments and NGOs to harness resources from locally operating
projects and programs in these areas, and target them at the nutritionally
most vulnerable.



78
Annex 7
Page 3 of 16
Interventions
7.        The following specific interventions would be supported under this
component to deal, respectively, with micro-nutrient deficiencies and protein-
energy malnutrition.
A. Micro-nutrient deficiencies
8.        There is a separate project component to strengthen existing
national efforts to correct three key vitamin and mineral deficiencies i.e.,
of vitamin A, iron and iodine. CBNC would link these efforts to other
interventions within its operational thanas.
9.        Nutrition education would be given to encourage consumption of
foods rich in iron and vitamin A and avoidance of goitrogenic foods. Further
details are given in the IEC component. Also, extension efforts encouraging
homestead food production (kitchen gardens and poultry farming) under the
intersectoral nutrition component would promote the growing of such foods
within the household ensuring easy access and affordability.
10.       Since dietary behavioral change is difficult and probably a long-
term proposition, IEC efforts would also promote the acceptance of vitamin A
supplements in capsule form for children under six; iron supplements in tablet
form for pregnant and lactating women; and iodine capsules for women of
reproductive age. As for micronutrient supplementation per se, since the
national requirement is already partly included in other projects, this
project would finance the remainder through the component dealing with it.
B. Protein-Enercy Malnutrition
11.       The component would support the following interventions to prevent
and treat PEM.
(a) Screenincr. education and supplementary feeding of pregnant and
lactating women
(i) This will be first attempted on an experimental basis in three
of the six first year thanas. An assessment of costs and
benefits will be made at the end of two years, the findings of
which will determine whether supplementary feeding of PLW
should be extended to all the project thanas.
(ii) Pregnant women would be registered by the end of the first
trimester, and screened for malnutrition. All pregnant and
lactating women would receive education on the quantity and
quality of their diet, and the need to rest more during
pregnancy. Pregnant women identified as being at risk of
having a low birth weight baby (approximately 601) would
receive a daily supplement yielding about 600 calories from the
time of screening through the sixth month of lactation. The



79
Annex 7
Page 4 of 16
most appropriate methodology for workers to measure pregnant
women's nutritional risk under field conditions needs to be
worked out yet.
(b) Adolescent Qirls.
(i)  A strong technical case can be made for screening and
supplementing malnourished adolescent girls for about a year at
the onset of puberty. The adolescent growth spurt presents the
first (and last) biologically effective opportunity to
counteract childhood stunting once the child is past the age of
three. Food supplementation to a girl at this age while bones
are being formed is the last opportunity to ensure that her
pelvis will be big enough for easy child-birth. Moreover,
improving the nutrition of adolescent girls helps to ensure
that newly weds enter their first pregnancy with adequate body
stores. Such a strategy is likely to reduce the proportion of
pregnant women who would need supplementation and therefore
tantamounts to a preventive approach applied earlier on.
Missing the opportunity to correct undernutrition at the
adolescent age and consequently delaying supplementation of
malnourished women until the second trimester of pregnancy is
only a second-best solution. It may be too late for them to put
on the weight they need to avoid low birth weight babies and
progressive maternal depletion.
(ii)  However, nutritional intervention at menarche is a relatively
new concept. Its cost-effectiveness is unclear, and in
particular it is of unknown cultural acceptability in
Bangladesh. Operations research will therefore be carried out
on the cultural, operational and financial feasibility of this
intervention as part of the program development component which
provides for such research.
(c) Growth MonitorinQ and Promotion (GMP) - Children under 2 years of
aqe
(i)  Children belonging to target households (the proposed target
groups are defined in the subsequent section) would be weighed
monthly from birth to the age of 24 months. Growth monitoring
would have three main purposes: first, to demonstrate to
parents their child's nutrition status and its growth pattern;
second, to help determine the type of follow-on interventions
in the areas of caring practices, health and food security; and
third, to demonstrate to parents the response of the child's
growth path to these interventions. Growth monitoring would
therefore be the core intervention, since it would motivate and
initiate family, community and government action, and monitor
the results.



80
Annex 7
Page 5 of 16
(ii) Because a) the bulk of wasting is concentrated in the first two
years, b) malnutrition after two years is harder to correct,
and c) weighing and charting is time-consuming for workers,
growth monitoring would be confined to the 0-24 month group.
Thereafter, severely malnourished children needing immediate
supplementation, if brought to the attention of the CNP, would
be referred to the health service facility.
(iii) The growth chart currently being used in Bangladesh is not
suitable for the above purposes, since it does not distinguish
between the different grades of nutrition status. It will
therefore be replaced by a more suitable card; a likely
candidate is the UNICEF rainbow/bubble chart, which is easy
both for mothers to interpret and workers to fill in. This
card is already being field tested in Bangladesh.
(d) Identification and sDecial care of low birth weight (LBW) babies
(i) Babies would be weighed as soon as possible after birth.
Mothers of LBW babies would receive special education on the
care and feeding of new born. Special attention will also be
given to the mother's needs during lactation.
(e) Education on breast-feeding and weaning
(i) Mothers would receive education on the use of colostrum and
exclusive breast-feeding during the first six months, and
continuation of breast-feeding until the age of two. Parents
and mothers-in-law would be educated on the need to introduce
solid foods in sufficient quantity and quality from the age of
six months.
(f) Health education
(i) Health education would be given to all families in contact with
the program on four main contributors to malnutrition: a) the
immunizable diseases (need for immunization); b) diarrhea
(hygiene education and home fluid rehydration); c) ARIs (home
care of mild and moderate cases and referral of the severe
ones); and d) maternal depletion (need for birth spacing).
(g) Health check-up and referral
(i) Children suspected of having health problems would be referred
to the Family Welfare visitor (FWv) or the Medical Assistant
for diagnosis and treatment, or further referral. All children
of third degree malnutrition and all children failing to gain
weight while in the supplementation program would automatically
be referred.



81
Annex 7
Page 6 of 16
(h)  Deworminc
(i) Parasites contribute to malnutrition by absorbing nutrients.
However, recent research in many parts of the world shows that
deworming is not cost-effective in pre-school children, since
at that age wormloads have not built up to levels that make a
real difference to nutrition. A study being financed under the
Fourth Population and Health Project will, inter alia, help
determine the intensity of infestation at different ages and in
different parts of Bangladesh. Based on the findings, a
decision will be taken whether deworming will be a universal or
a targeted intervention for children under the project, and the
appropriate drugs for prophylaxis. Such an intervention might
prove to be particularly useful for school-age children.
(i)  Supplementary Feeding of Children
(i) The purpose of supplementation would be to demonstrate to
parents through growth charts the substantial and rapid gains
in nutrition status that are possible through feeding small
additional quantities of food, providing the child is otherwise
healthy and without heavy parasite infestation. The limited
duration of supplementation would avoid dependence on the
program, and emphasize to parents their primary responsibility
for feeding the child. The intention of such supplementary
feeding is not to deal with the food security problems of the
poorest families, which would be addressed through harnessing
the resources of income generation programs to help food-
insecure families.
(ii) Target group children under the age of two with faltering
growth and/or children of grade II malnutrition would receive a
special food supplement yielding approximately 350 calories per
ration, six days a week for a period of three months, or until
they recovered to a normal growth path whichever is longer in
duration.   Children with a severe degree of malnutrition
(grade III) would receive twice the daily ration and for a
period of four months, with the same exit criteria. The
supplement for children would be fed on the spot at a
supervised feeding center within the community, to ensure that
they received the full benefit of the supplement.
(iii) Operations research will be carried out to determine an
appropriate supplementary food. The criteria will be
palatability (including potential for preparation in different
ways); nutrient content and density; reliance on locally
available ingredients and preparation methods; shelf-life; and
cost (including preparation costs). The potential of amylase
enrichment, with which ICDDR'B is experimenting, will also be
examined, especially with regard to increasing the volume of



82
Annex 7
Page 7 of 16
food which can be absorbed by third degree children who may
need the planned double ration but at the same time be
anorexic. Possibilities of fortifying the supplementary food
with iron and other micronutrients will also be piloted and
expanded to project areas if found feasible.
(j) Food security, water supply and health care interventions
Specific interventions in these areas would be financed under the
project's inter-sectoral nutrition component. The related intervention under
CBNC would be to strengthen communities' capacity to harness resources in
these areas and target them on those most in need.
Geographic Phasing and site selection
12.       National coverage of this component would not be attempted during
the six year life of the proposed project, both because of limited managerial
capacity and because of the need to determine the approach(es) for wider
application by learning from earlier experiences. Given the differences in
health service capacity as well as the social milieu between rural areas and
urban slums, it is envisaged that implementation arrangements would be
introduced in about two or three sites (both rural thanas and urban slums)
during the first year of the project, about 11 more sites will be added in
each of the second and third years and then, subject to the mid-term review,
CBNC will be further expanded to cover about 50 sites. The total population
in the proposed project area would be about 13 million by the end of the
project period. Based on the evaluation results, follow-on project(s) would
expand the coverage eventually nation-wide. The geographic areas to be
targeted will be selected using the criteria outline in annex 13.
Target Groups
13.       Targeting is more of an issue for PEM than for micronutrient
interventions because of the former's greater managerial complexity and
relatively high cost (especially for GMP). Special care will therefore be
needed to target the project resources for PEM interventions at the clients
where they are likely to yield maximal results as well as where the need is
most. Two client targeting strategies are currently proposed. These
alternative strategies would be tested in some Thanas during the first three
years of the project. A decision would then be taken on the strategy to be
adopted on a large scale, based on a mid-term evaluation.
A. All Vulnerable women and children
14.       Under this strategy, the above interventions would be targeted on
all pregnant and lactating women and all children 0-36 months in the project
area; and, depending on the results of operations research, on all adolescent
girls around menarche. These are the groups in society most vulnerable to
malnutrition. They are also the groups where intervention can have the
greatest effect in preventing malnutrition. The strategy of targeting



83
Annex 7
Page 8 of 16
resources on pregnant and lactating women and the youngest children is much
more cost-effective than trying to treat malnutrition among older children.
The focus of the proposed strategy on prevention rather than cure is in line
with the national primary health care policy.
15.       If this strategy could be successfully managed, targeting the
entire nutritionally vulnerable group on the above lines would be the quickest
way to make an impact on malnutrition in Bangladesh. It would signal a major
commitment to tackling the problem, on a scale already made by several other
Asian countries. If the strategy were implemented on a national scale it
would imply substantial annual recurrent costs but the long-term cost would be
far less. It is expected to be more affordable and certainly more beneficial,
for example, than the recently discontinued Rural Ration Scheme.
16.       A more significant issue than incremental cost is the managerial
challenge of implementing a program targeting the entire vulnerable group,
given the very limited existing institutional infrastructure for community
nutrition. For this reason, consideration is also being given to a second
targeting strategy focusing on a subset of the nutritionally vulnerable group.
B. Newly married women, their children, and all severely malnourished children
17.       This strategy will be introduced in one thana as a pilot test as it
has not been tried out before. Its costs and benefits will be analyzed at the
end of the project for possible expansion in the future project(s).
18.       Under this strategy, specific interventions would be focussed on
each newly married woman and her family from the time of marriage through the
first two years after the birth of her first child; and on any severely
malnourished child discovered through a scheme of regular "arm-banding" of the
0-24 months age group (arm-banding is used since it is an easier technique
than the weighing used in the strategy outlined in para 4.1 above and the idea
of this targeting strategy is to reduce the labor-intensiveness of the other
strategy). The rationale for including the severely malnourished is that
their risk of death is several times that of normal children; it would
therefore be unacceptable not to intervene to help this group. The rationale
for choosing the newly married for special attention would be three-fold:
*   given the young age at marriage and limited education of young
women in Bangladesh, the first pregnancy is the riskiest for
both mother and child. Focusing care on the woman at this stage
in her life would be targeting the most vulnerable stage of the
reproductive cycle
*   women who are already suffering from maternal depletion and who
have had several malnourished children have formed bad self-care
and child-care habits which are hard to correct. The newly
married couple is more likely to respond positively to well-
planned counselling and encouragement from the community.



84
Annex 7
Page 9 of 16
Moreover, good care habits formed at the start of marriage are
likely to carry over into good care for subsequent children
*   If this strategy is applied with some careful thought, the
benefits could be more than nutritional. For example, the
package of services provided might serve as an incentive to
delay the first child birth since the couple would remain in the
program until the first baby is two years old.
*   the newly married couples are seen by the community as being at
the start of their lives. The idea of helping them can be
expected to get a strong acceptance by the community; this has
been substantiated by empirical evidence obtained through
informal discussions with Bangladeshi communities.
19.       This innovative targeting strategy would substantially reduce the
number of project clients. Under the 'entire vulnerable group' strategy, the
clients would number about 30 pregnant/lactating women and about 90 children
in the age group of 0-36 month in an average village of a thousand population.
Under the 'newly married' strategy, the clients would number about 12 newly
married women, about 12 of their children, and about 15 severely malnourished.
Although all mothers and children in this group would have access to the
special package of education and health care interventions, only women
pregnant for the first time and their first children would be eligible for
food supplementation.
20.       This reduction in the size of the target group would have the
primary advantage of increasing the quality of interventions by focussing on a
more manageable number of clients. Since large scale community nutrition
interventions are new to Bangladesh, it is possible that intense attention to
a small number of priority clients could be a more effective approach than
attempting to reach all the vulnerable women and children, and running the
risk of low service quality because of the diffusion of effort.
21.       The cost implications of the different targeting strategies are
secondary, given that both are cheaper than the broad-based ration and food
subsidy schemes already tried in Bangladesh. Nevertheless, targeting project
interventions on this subset of the nutritionally vulnerable group would be
substantially cheaper than targeting the entire group (although its impact on
malnutrition has not yet been tested). Cost savings would be limited for
staff, because of the significant 'fixed cost' of staffing an effective
community-based intervention, but substantial in terms of supplementary food.
Implementation: Community-Based Structure And Processes
22.       The component would put in place a structure at the village level
capable of providing the above interventions to the chosen target group; and a
process which would develop communities' capacity to assess their nutrition
problem and its causes, participate in planning and implementing solutions,
and help monitor project performance.



85
Annex 7
Page 10 of 16
A. Structure
23.       At the village level, the key structures for implementing the
project would be a part-time community nutrition promoter (CNP) in each
village, and a women's group interested in health and nutrition, working with
the existing village power structure of elders and other influential persons,
and the Village Development Committee (VDC)
Community Nutrition Promoters
24.       The workload involved in implementing the above interventions is
substantial. For example, growth monitoring, counselling and micro-nutrient
distribution sessions would take one worker the equivalent of about three days
a month for the 'vulnerable group' strategy, and training, record-keeping and
reporting would require another two days. Home visits to families needing
special attention would need about an hour a day, and supplementary feeding
would take two workers about two hours each per day, six days a week. This
total workload would average out to about four hours a day for the main
worker, plus two hours a day for the secondary worker.
25.       Growth monitoring and related activities would take about one and a
half days a month as would training, record-keeping and reporting. Home
visits would still require an hour a day, because of the large number of grade
three children to be followed up, and supplementary feeding would take about
an hour and a half a day for one worker. This would average out to about
three hours a day.
26.       In view of their current duties being already heavy the existing
health FP workers cannot be expected to take on the additional workload.
Volunteers are unlikely to work for more than three or four hours a week,
implying the need for at least six volunteers per village. The cost of the
large supervisory cadre which would be required to provide this number of
volunteers with adequate supervision and support would exceed the financial
savings of using volunteers in the first place. Moreover volunteers would
probably be less amenable to project control and accountability and this might
risk inconsistencies in the quality and reliability of the crucial
interventions. However, it is recognized that the creation of a new permanent
cadre of single-purpose workers is not a sustainable on desirable option.
27.       It is therefore proposed that the key village level worker would be
a Community Nutrition Promoter (CNP), paid a compensation of about Tk.500 a
month. An additional amount of Tk. 300 a month would be provided to cover
incidental costs involved in running a community nutrition center on a daily
basis. Evidence from previously tried similar community based efforts
suggests that honoraria of this size are an adequate incentive for good
performance.  Remuneration at this level would ensure that the human resources
costs of the program remain affordable and more importantly, the worker would
not be perceived as a salaried government employee, but rather as a part of
the community.



86
Annex 7
Page 11 of 16
28.       CNPs would be women with children, living in the local community,
to ensure easy access and social acceptability to their clients. They would
have a minimum education of 8th class or equivalent, to ensure sufficient
literacy for growth monitoring and reporting. They should preferably be women
from the poorer section of the community who have at least one well-nourished
child; such women, even before training, would possess maternal and child care
skills which they could pass on to others in the community. Detailed
selection criteria for CNPs are given in annex 14.
29.       Experience from other similar projects suggests that one CNP would
be needed to cover a population of 1,000 adequately for purposes of tasks
envisaged under CBNC. However, to assess the necessary CNP/population ratio
in Bangladesh, this project will test two ratios - 1 per 1,000 and 1 per
1,500, in the three thanas each, in the first two years. A review of the
experience in these six thanas will determine the appropriate ratio to be used
in the subsequent thanas.
30.       The activities of CNPs would provide a unique opportunity for the
women to interact on other social issues at the village level. This could
bring about a synergy between the various activities impinging on the well-
being of families, using nutrition as a thematic center of community welfare
in its broad sense.
Communitv groups
31.       In some slums and villages, women's groups have already been formed
for health and nutrition purposes, often by NGOs. These would be made use of
to assist in project implementation as outlined below. Wherever women's
groups have been formed for other purposes, for example income generation
schemes, these would be examined to see whether they consist of women
interested in health and nutrition improvement, and whether they are suitable
for involvement in this project activity.
32.       Where such groups do not exist, groups of ten to twenty women would
be chosen for their interest in health and nutrition, their willingness to
spend a few hours a week helping the program, and for their representation of
different social and geographic sections of the community. The groups would
normally include the local VDPs and TBAs. They would be trained and used to:
a) explain the program's goals and services to the community; b) assist in
the process of assessment, analysis and action described below; c) encourage
women to participate in project services; and d) assist in health and
nutrition education.
B. Proceoses
Introduction of services: the community contract
33.       At the beginning of the program, the women's group would be formed
before service delivery is started, and its members, the VDC, the village
elders and other influential and interested local people would be informed of



87
Annex 7
Page 12 of 16
the services to be provided. The participants in this initial mobilization
process would be informed that the program services were their right. They
would be advised to get in touch with Union Parishad officials or the
program's technical supervisors to complain if they did not receive program
services as planned.
34.       These community representatives would be clearly explained what
their major roles would be: a) work with program supervisors to choose a
Community Nutrition Worker; b) participate in the process of assessing,
analyzing and acting to improve their community's nutrition status; c)
provide a place (such as a school or other public building or a house) where
supplementation would be provided, and records could be kept; and d) help
monitor the program's performance in a way that is transparent to the
community. Participation in the program would therefore imply a contract in
which, the community would be entitled to certain rights in return for
assuming certain responsibilities.
Community assessment, analysis and action
35.       The community, especially the proposed VDC, the village elders, the
women's group, the school-teacher and the mothers participating directly in
the program, would be involved in the following specific ways in assessing the
local nutrition situation, discussing its causes and deciding what to do about
it.
36.       At the beginning of the program in any village or slum, a census
and nutritional screening of all project beneficiaries would be undertaken,
and the results permanently displayed on a combined Community Growth Chart at
the food supplementation (community feeding) center. Thus each interested
community member would be aware of the nutrition problem to be dealt with in
the area.
37.       This community growth chart would be used to raise the community's
awareness of the nutrition situation and generate discussion of its causes and
hence of approaches to dealing with it. Program supervisors would work with
the community to explain that changes in health and nutrition practices in the
families are as critical to addressing malnutrition as improvements in food
availability, health services, water supply and sanitation. While the
community might need help from the outside for the latter group of actions,
support of community groups is particularly valuable and essential for the
former.
38.       The community and program supervisors would work together to draw
up a plan of action to reduce malnutrition in the community. This plan would
be on two levels: a) efforts which could be undertaken with the village's own
resources, such as providing local employment for a destitute family; and b)
those which would require outside assistance, such as the allocation of Public
Food Distribution System assistance to needy families, or the provision of a
tube-well to the village.



88
Annex 7
Page 13 of 16
39.       This plan of action would then be reviewed at a joint meeting at
the Union level between representatives of the VDC, program supervisors and
Union Parishad leaders. Union Parishad officials working with program
supervisors would then decide on the relative priority of different requests
for support, and would approach government departments and NGOs working in the
area to seek their support in targeting services on priority local needs.
Besides being the main elements of CBNC, this community-driven mechanism is
envisaged to be central to how the intersectoral component would be
operationalized at the grass-roots level.
Community monitoring
40.       The community growth chart would be updated each quarter, and this
event would be used as an opportunity for a performance review of project
services and other nutrition-related programs, by VDCs, the women's groups,
the Union Parishad and program supervisors.
41.       In addition, the women's group and mothers benefiting from
supplementation would have a specific role in monitoring the delivery and use
of food supplements. They would be made aware of the amounts of food which
should be delivered to the village each month, and a women's group member
would attend the supplementation session each day both to assist the worker
and to see that target clients receive their entitlement. The experience of
the Vulnerable Group Development Program suggests that preventing food
leakages is vital and beneficiary monitoring might be the best way to
accomplish that.
NGO Participation
42.       Where suitable NGOs are active in areas related to nutrition or in
case an NGO is interested in participating in the project in a new thana,
their involvement in the project, especially for community mobilization would
be encouraged. NGO participation will be of two types: (a) in some thanas,
the chosen NGO will be given the full responsibility of project
implementation, under contract with GOB; (b) in the other thanas, the NGO will
provide key areas of support, viz., community mobilization, training and
supervision and the logistics of preparation, packaging and delivery of
supplementary food. In the former case, the CNPs and CNOs and other project
personnel will belong to the NGO concerned; GOB health facilities will be used
for referral of cases. The concerned NGO will submit project monitoring
reports to GOB in respect of the given thanas.
43.       A draft contract specifying clearly the terms and conditions for
NGO participation (in each of the above models) has been prepared.
44.       The budget will be the same for INGO-run GOB-supported" thanas as
for the "GOB-run NGO-supported" thanas.



89
Annex 7
Page 14 of 16
Implementation: Proqram Supervision And Support
45.       Experience in other countries has shown that community-based
nutrition interventions are only effective if community workers and groups are
supported by strong technical supervision and training. A second lesson from
international experience has been that field-based training for community
workers is more effective as well as cheaper than institution-based training.
A third has been that one of the best forms of in-service training is
supportive supervision, and vice versa. Therefore, under the project it is
proposed to combine technical supervision and training, both at the Union and
at the Thana level.
(a) The Union Level
(i) International experience with community-based nutrition
programs indicates that quality supervision and in-service
training require at least one supervisor for every 10-12
workers. This would imply a need for two supervisory personnel
at the Union level to support an average of 20 CNPs. Part of
this supervisory role could be played by the two Family Welfare
Visitors (FWVs) at the Union level, one of whom is already in
place, the second being expected to be posted by MOHFW.
However, the two FWVs could not take on the full load of
nutrition supervision without adversely affecting the
effectiveness of their other family planning and MCH
responsibilities. It is therefore proposed to hire one
additional female worker at the Union level dedicated to the
nutrition program.
(ii) This full-time worker, who would be called the Community
Nutrition Organizer (CNO) would have the following duties:
*  at project initiation, to work with village communities to form
women's groups and catalyze the process of assessment, analysis
and action described a fore; and
*  to work with VDCs, women's groups and Union Parishads to define
which villages and families would benefit from targeted support
from intersectoral programs affecting nutrition, and monitor
their performance on a quarterly basis.
(iii) The CNO and FWVs would share the responsibility for day to day
technical supervision. The CNO would take primary
responsibility for the quality of the CNPs' community
mobilization role; the FWVs, would supervise ten CNPs each, in
an average Union, focusing on linkages with the health and FP
service. Each of the three Union level supervisors would pay
particular attention to the coverage of pregnant and lactating
women and children by GMP; to the quality of weighing, charting
and health and nutrition education; and to the targeting of



90
Annex 7
Page 15 of 16
health services on needy clients, including the organization of
referrals to the THC as appropriate.
(iv) The CNO and FWVs would provide on the job training to the CNPs
during their supervisory rounds as required. Once a month, the
CNO and the Fwv would assemble the CNPs for a half day session
with the objectives of performance review; problem-solving; and
providing training on specific areas of deficiencies found
during supervision visits.
(b)   The Thana Level
(i) The program would require both administrative and technical
support from the Thana level. The Thana Nirvahi Officer (TNO)
would chair the Thana Nutrition Management Committee and take
overall responsibility for the program, and for the
coordination of intersectoral inputs from the various
departments affecting nutrition as also liaison with NGOs;
assuming current proposals for Local Government reform are
realized, TNO would work with the Thana Development and
Coordination Committee on this. The PIO would take
responsibility for the distribution of food supplements, since
(s)he is already responsible for food distribution programs.
The MO (MCH) at the Thana Health Complex would handle project
performance reporting in terms of nutrition outcomes, since it
would be a part of the Thana's MCH program performance.
(ii) To ensure adequate technical support for the program, it is
proposed to appoint the Assistant Thana Family Planning Officer
as the Thana Nutrition Coordinator (TNC). For ATFPOs to be
effective as a TNC, they should be given full-time
responsibility for CBNC activities and no other tasks (on
FP/MCH) should be assigned to them. This officer would be
responsible for a) supervision of CNOs; b) the quality of
supervision of CNPs by CNOs and FWVs; and c) the pre-service
and formal in-service training of the CNPs in her Thana. The
TNC would spend ten days a month in field supervision of
project work in the villages, which would allow her to visit
each Union area once a fortnight. (S)he would provide on the
job training to the CNOs and FWVs during her supervision
visits. (S)he would assemble them for more formal in-service
training whenever necessary to correct systemic problems found
during supervision visits. (S)he would also arrange group in-
service training for CNPs identified by CNOs/FWVs as
experiencing difficulties with their tasks.
(iii) The TNC would also have primary responsibility for the pre-
service training of the CNPs in her area. Such training would
last three months at the respective Unions where the CNPs are
to work; a task which would imply 30 person-months of effort



91
Annex 7
Page 16 of 16
for a typical Thana. Since TNCs would need also to supervise
newly trained workers during the first project year, sufficient
outside help will be given with pre-service training. TNCs
would devote half their time to supervision, and have all CNPs
in the Thana trained within 18 months. The exact modalities
for the outside assistance to TNCs have yet to be determined;
but this support could come from teams of additional TNCs, who
could be moved from Thana to Thana to help with pre-service
training as the program expands. Yet mother possible source of
assistance in this area would naturally be NGOs who have such a
capacity.
(c) District and Central Levels
(i) Supervision of project activities would be concentrated at the
Thana and Union levels, in line with the component's
decentralized approach. District level activities would be
limited to performance reporting to MOHFW, and feedback of
performance results to the Thana and Union levels compare
performance with each other. This information and monitoring
role at the district level would be handled by existing MOHFW
staff and will not warrant any new post creation.
(ii) After Local Government reforms, Union Parishads and Thana
Development Coordination Committees, advised by local MPs,
would have a more important role than districts in allocating
and coordinating intersectoral inputs, except in the case of
major infrastructure works. Union Parishads would negotiate
directly with Central Government departments on the amount of
resources to which their area was entitled. To encourage the
allocation of resources as far as possible according to
nutritional need, MOHFW would supply the Ministry of Local
Government with nutritional status figures by Union Parishad on
a quarterly basis. The Prime Minister's Office which would
have a cell responsible for the Nutrition Project, would carry
out periodic reviews of the relationship between departmental
resource allocation and nutritional need.



92
Annex 8
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Training Needs of the Project and Related Issues
Activities Prior to Initiation of the Project
Task-Oriented Curriculum Package Development
1.        Prior  to  commencement  of  the  project,  task-oriented  curriculum
packages must be developed for cadre-specific training-of-trainers (TOTs) . Task-
oriented curriculum packages should be developed for each of the following cadres
of personnel who will be involved in the project:
(a)  Nutrition Project staff, i.e., TNC, CNO, CNP, and volunteers
(b)  MOHFW staff at all levels that articulate with the project, especially
CBNC, eg., FWAs and Has at the village level, FWVs and Mas at the
Union level, etc.
(c)  Staff  from  other  sectors  whose  activities  articulate  with  the
project's at all levels. These include the District Commissioner and
representatives of Ministries at District level; Thana Nirbahi Officer
and other Thana level staff from other Ministries; school teachers,
agricultural extension workers, etc., at Thana level and below.
(d)  NGO staff working in projects that would articulate with the project
at all levels.
2.        As used here, each task-oriented cadre-specific curriculum package
includes:
(a)  Measurable  behavioral  outcome  objectives  based  on  each  cadre's
specific job/task responsibilities.
(b)  Essential  nutrition,  communication,  IEC,  management,  supervision,
financial, etc., content.
(c)  Appropriate participatory training methods that focus on learning by
doing with feedback, especially for counselling skills which are
generally very weak here.
(d)  Appropriate training materials--protocols for all tasks such as Growth
Monitoring Promotion, supplementary/complementary feeding, women and
child screening,  counseling,  etc.   Training materials  cannot be
electricity-dependent and should either be ready-made such as IEC
materials, or use local materials such as black painted boards, chalk,
etc.
(e)  Orientation to and effective use of existing and the project-specific
IEC materials
(f)  Recording and reporting forms
(g)  Tools for objective evaluation of trainees' pre-and posttest knowledge
and skill performance, for evaluation of trainees' post course
performance of their actual tasks in the field, and for gathering and
analyzing clients' feedback on trainees' actual knowledge, attitudes,
and skill performance with them in the field.
3.        Participants in the UNICEF Working Group, the IEC and Field Level
Linkages Working Groups, and other groups involved in pre-project activities
should coordinate their efforts in the following activities because of the impact
these activities have on cadre-specific task-oriented curriculum package
development and subsequently on training and supervision.
(a)  Initial needs assessment/baseline study in two Thanas selected for the
first year of the project. This baseline study should provide data



93
Annex B
Page 2 of 4
from the two Thanas which have direct bearing on curriculum package
development and training: actual nutritional status and needs of the
target groups, i.e., children under 24 months of age, newly married
women; women who are in their second and third trimesters of
pregnancy, and women during the first five months of lactation; belief
systems about nutrition and nutrition practices for the target groups;
and current nutrition IEC materials being used by MOHFW staff, staff
from other sectors, and NGOs.
(b)  Development and field testing of additional appropriate targeted IEC
materials.
(c)  Development of job descriptions and specific task protocols for all
cadres of the project staff at all levels. These job descriptions and
protocols are a major basis for curriculum package development for
each of the cadres of personnel to be trained.
(d)  Develop task protocols for other GOB and NGO personnel at Thana level
and below to be used in intra- and intersectoral training and
supervision. In some instances the job descriptions for cadres of
personnel from other Ministries may have to be amended in terms of
their intersectoral participation in the project.
(e)  Provide technical assistance and critical technical review of all
task-oriented curriculum packages developed.
4.        These Working Groups may wish to obtain technical assistance in
designing and conducting the baseline studies, developing and field testing
targeted IEC materials, and development and initial testing of these cadre-
specific curriculum packages from the Institute of Nutrition, Mahidol University
(INMU) and the Tamil Nadu Project.
Selection of Core Trainers
5.        The project will need at least two Bangladeshis as full-time core
trainers for the first year in two Thanas. The project core trainers should have
had theoretical training and field experience in nutrition as well as experience
in training.  They must be willing to remain in the field at Thana level and
below for weeks at a time since this is where their training and evaluation
activities will take place. Salaries for these core trainers must be well above
Government scale to attract and retain appropriately qualified trainers.
Ideally, core trainers should be involved in curriculum package and IEC
materials' development before the project actually commences.
6.        The  project  core  trainers  should be  sent  to the  Institute  of
Nutrition, Mahidol University, Bangkok, for training, field visits to successful
community nutrition projects in Thailand, discussion with field level trainers,
and serial consultation on the cadre-specific curriculum packages. They should
also have a structured study tour to the Tamil Nadu Project where they can talk
with trainers involved in that Project.
Training Activities During the First Year of the project
7.        The project core trainers will have the following functions during the
first year:
(a)  Field test task-oriented curricula packages for training TNCs as
trainers (TOT) . This field test will involve core trainers in
conducting the actual TOT for the TNCs, as well as facilitating focus
group discussions (FGDs) with the TNCs about the TOT and their
recommendations  for necessary  revisions.    Core  trainers  should
continue FGDs every four-to-six weeks during at least the first six
months of the TNCs5 actual work in the two Thanas and bimonthly
thereafter for the first year.



94
Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
(b) Revise the task-oriented TOT curriculum package based on FGDs with
TNCs. Feedback should also be sought from other Thana level personnel
i.e., MOHFW, other sectors, and NGOs, as appropriate.
(c) Assist TNCs to conduct training in two thanas at Thana, Union, and
village levels for CNOs, CNPs, and CBNC volunteers using task-oriented
curricula packages.
(d) Revise task-oriented curricula based on trainees' posttest performance
and actual performance in the field and on clients' feedback in FGDs
following initial implementation of training by all cadres trained.
(e) Field test task-oriented curricula packages for training trainers of
MOHFW, other sector, and NGO personnel who will, in turn, train their
own sector or NGO staff.  (TOT)  This field test will involve core
trainers in conducting the actual TOT for trainers from MOHFW, other
sectors, and NGOs, as well as facilitating focus group discussions
(FGDs) with the trainers about the TOT and their recommendations for
necessary revisions. Core trainers should continue FGDs every four-
to-six weeks during at least the first six months of the other
sectors' trainers' actual work in the two Thanas and bimonthly
thereafter for the first year.
(f) Revise the task-oriented TOT curriculum package based on FGDs with
other sectors' trainers. Feedback should also be sought from other
Thana level personnel i.e., MOHFW, other sectors, and NGOs, as
appropriate.
(g) Assist MOHFW, other sectors', and NGOs' trainers to conduct training
in two thanas at Thana, Union, and village levels for MOHFW, other
sectors' staff, and NGO staff at as a field test of the task-oriented
curricula packages.
(h) Revise task-oriented curricula based on MOHFW, other sectors, and NGO
staffs' trainees' posttest performance and actual performance in the
field  and  on  clients'   feedback  in  FGDs   following  initial
implementation of training by all cadres trained.
(i) Assist TNCs and other supervisors in their on-going on-the-job
training and supervision of CNOs, CNPs, volunteers, linked MOHFW,
other-sectoral staff, and NGO personnel in the field. Through this
activity, the core trainers will learn first hand about the actual
problems  encountered  in  implementing  CBNC  in  the  field.    This
experience will lead to further refinements of task-oriented curricula
packages and IEC materials during the first year and to development
of effective task-oriented in-service curriculum packages for each
cadre of CBNC or linked staff.
(j) Continue to assist the TNCs in their initial training of field level
staff, implementing the first year of the project and with supervision
of the CNPs, CNOs, and volunteers, as well as the project-linked staff
from MOHFW, other sectors, and NGOs. The reasons for core trainers'
involvement in the field implementation of the project's first year
are so that the core trainers can experience, along with the trainers
and field staff--TNCs, CNPs, and CNOs, volunteers, and linked MOHFW,,
other-sectoral staff, and NGO personnel--the real field situation and
its problems.   This experience will enable the core trainers to be
more effective trainers of trainers as well as enable them to revise
curricula, training methods, and training materials to make them more
task-specific and effective.   After this experience, core trainers
will also be more effective in drafting cadre-specific task-oriented
in-service training curriculum packages for field testing.
(k) Hold FGDs with CBNC and other sectors' trainers and with selected
field level personnel from CBNC and other sectors and NGOs to what
content and skills are common to whom and thus to identify which
cadres of personnel at what levels of service delivery can be
effectively trained together for all or part of their training during
subsequent phases of the project.



95
Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
Training of Staff of the proiect and other Sector and NGOs at Thana level and
Below
8.        The following principles should be followed in all TOTs and training
of all field levels the project and staff from linked GOB and NGO programs.
(a) All training will take place as close to the real field situation in
which the trainees will actually work as possible.
(b) Training should take place in existing community/village facilities
using locally available materials, eg., black painted boards with
chalk, etc.
(c) All trainers must have received appropriate TOT before they conduct
training for other the project or the project-linked personnel or
volunteers.
(d) All training must be task-oriented, i.e., focused on what trainees
will actually do in their jobs.   Knowledge,  attitude,  and skill
training should all be based on actual job expectations for each cadre
of trainee.
(e) All training methods should be active. "Learn by doing" with
supervision and  feedback  is  the goal.    All  skills,  especially
counseling skills, must be practiced repeatedly with supervision and
feedback, until trainees can do them effectively according to
protocols for their cadre. Actual performance should be observed for
assessment. This is also a basis for field supervision.
(f)  Training materials should be actual IEC materials or locally made
materials  such as black painted boards,  chalk,  etc.,  that  are
effective and portable.
Training Activities in Subseciuent Years of the project
9.        The project core trainers will conduct TOTs to train additional
trainers from the project staff as well as from MOHFW, other sectors, and NGOs,
who will work as trainers in the Thanas added to the project. Core trainers will
provide these trainers with supportive supervision and in-service training. They
will also seek feedback from them for necessary revisions in task-oriented cadre-
specific basic and in-service curriculum packages.



96
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Selection Criteria - Community Nutrition Promoters
1.        The key persons for project implementation at the village level
would be the female Community Nutrition Promoters (CNPs). CNPs would have a
first-line responsibility for nutrition monitoring and promotion, including
daily supplementation of eligible women and children and follow-up with
defaulters.
2.        Successful implementation of the project would depend on CNPs'
conscientious performance of their duties and on their close rapport with
their target population. CNPs would therefore not be presented as an
additional cadre of salaried government employees, but rather as village women
with special competencies who would be accountable to the village population
whom they serve.
3.        CNPs would receive about 100 taka per week in the case of the
vulnerable group strategy, and about 75 taka per week in the case of the newly
married strategy. Payment of a honorarium is considered necessary to
compensate CNPs for their time, sustain continuity of service, and to achieve
the increased discipline and accountability that result from the payment.
4.        CNPs should preferably be women from the poorer section of the com-
munity who have well nourished children; such women, even before training,
would possess some maternal and child care skills which they could pass on to
others in the community. To ensure easy access and social acceptability to
their clients they would have to be resident in the village where they serve.
CNPs would have a minimum education of 8th class or equivalent. To ensure
sufficient skills for growth monitoring and reporting and interpersonal
communications candidates would, in addition, need to pass a simple competency
and aptitude test. Willingness to serve the whole village, including the
poorer and more remote neighborhoods, would be an important additional
selection criterion.
5.        Accountability to the village community would be established by
inviting nominations for the initial selection of CNPs from the community, by
providing feedback information on the community-based interventions to the
village community, and by requiring periodic reconfirmations of CNPs by the
communities that they are serving.
6.        Initial nominations of CNPs would be invited from within each of
the village neighborhoods (paras), from any existing organized village devel-
opment groups, and, once formed, from Village Development Committees. Village
communities would be kept informed of the coverage and performance of the



97
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
community-based interventions through visual displays of key performance data
and through periodic meetings with the village leadership by CNPs and CNOs, in
which the strengths and weaknesses of local nutrition monitoring and promotion
efforts would be reviewed. Groups involved in the initial nominations would
also be consulted on the periodic reconfirmations of CNPs, which would be a
means of replacing CNPs who no longer have the trust of the community that
they serve.



98
Annex 10
Page 1
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Selection Criteria - Sub-projects Financed from the Inter-Sectoral Fund
1.        The following questions should be analyzed and answered in the
affirmative for a sub-project proposal to be cleared for financing from the
proposed inter-sectoral nutrition fund:
(a) Does the proposed sub-project have the potential to make a significant
impact on malnutrition in Bangladesh by addressing a major known
mechanism for improving nutrition that falls outside the normal range
of "nutrition programs" such as women's education or youth programs,
or provision of information on nutrition through programs outside the
health sector?
(b) Will it address problems faced by poorer segments of the population?
(c) Is it technically sound? Is it adequately staffed? Does it include
adequate measurements by which progress can be gauged? Is it
consistent with state-of -the -art understanding of nutrition?
(d) Does the proposal have the full support of senior staff in the
concerned ministry or department?
(e) Is there assurance that beyond the seed money provided by the Fund,
adequate project support will be provided by the concerned ministry
or department?
(f) Where re-orientation of an existing activity is considered, is there
assurance that this activity itself is viable and assured of adequate
continuing funding?
(g) Has the ministry or department made adequate provision for monitoring
and evaluation of the new or re-oriented project as a whole?



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Compononts by rinanciers
(USS '000)
Local   Duties
IDA           Government            Total         For.    (Excl.      
Amount      4     Amount       8     Amount      8       Exch.   Taxes)  Taxes
National Lovel nutrition Activities
Program Development and Institution Building    2,950.4    100.0              -        -  2,950.4       4.4   854.5  2,095.9        -
Information, Education and Communication            4 ,620.9    100.0         -       -  4,620.9        6.9   400.7  4,220.1        -
Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities          6,807.2      95.5   318.1       4.5  7, 125.3     10.6   104.5  7,020.6         -
Project Management , Monitoring and Evaluation  5, 524.8          93.0   412.7      7.0  5,937.5        8.8 1, 030.3  4,831.4   75.8
Subtotal National Level Nutrition Activities          19,903.3      96.5   730.8       3.5 20,634.1      30.7 2,390.0 16,168.3   75.8
Community-Based Nutrition Component                   34 ,856.0     89.2 4 ,224.9    10.8 39,080.8       58.1   254.0 38,767.2   59.6
Inter-sectoral  Nutrition Program Development          5, 068.4     66.9 2,506.3    33.1  7, 574.7       11.3   293.4  6,611.5  669.8
Total Diaburseajot                                     59,827.7      88.9 7,461.9    11.1 6 7,289.6    100.0 2 ,937.4 63,547.0  805.2
Thu Apr 06 11:38:22 1995
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001    Total
National Level Nutrition Activities
Program Development and Institution Building           317.9    420.8    535.8    602.0    614.8    459.2  2,950.4
Information, Education and Communication               332.8    643.0  1,207.5    941.0    813.0    683.5  4,620.9
Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities            406.9    630.1  1,283.8  1,500.1  1,575.9  1,728.3  7, 125.3
Project Management , Monitoring and Evaluation    821.1    389.0    767.6  1,710.3    471.7  1,777.7  5,937.5
Subtotal National Level Nutrition Activities           1,878.7  2,083.0  3,794.8  4,753.4  3,475.5  4,648.8 20,634.1
Community-Based Nutrition Component                      976.4  1,214.8  4,623.0  9,544.7 11,229.4 11,492.5 39,080.8
Inter-sectoral  Nutrition Program Development          1,463.0    428.6  2,636.9  2,564.5    373.7    108.1  7,574.7
Total PRD1ZCS COSTS                                     4,318.1  3,726.4 11,054.7 16,862.6 15,078.6 16,249.3 67,289.6
Thu Apr 06 11:47:14 1995



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
txenditure Accounts by Years
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001    Total
lnvestmt Costs
good
Vehicles                                                   276.4         -      58.8      60.0         -         -    395.2
Equipment and Supplies                                     495.4    122.5  1,159.3  1,436.9    678.6    737.9  4,630.6
Training Materials                                         306.8      17.5    433.9    500.6    124.6    127.3  1,510.6
Books and Journals                                          12.8       7.7       7.9       8.1       8.3       8.5     53.2
IEC Materials                                              233.6    361.6    608.4    344.4    319.6    292.0  2,159.5
Therapeutic Nutrients                                       36.4      36.8    165.6    308.0    314.5    321.3  1,182.6
Subtotal Goods                                             1,361.3    546.2  2,433.9  2,658.0  1,445.5  1,487.0  9,931.8
Therapeutic Food Supplements                                 318.8    645.5  2,293.0  5,676.1  7,407.4  7,416.3 23,757.1
Consultants' serioes, studies and training
Technical Assistance                                       463.8    549.3    614.3    449.9    454.2    311.9  2,843.4
Training                                                   292.3    202.1    751.2    831.7    475.1    588.0  3,140.5
Fellowships                                                 50.5      51.7    158.4    161.9    165.4    112.7    700.7                                  O
Workshops/Seminars                                          72.5      75.6    311.6    359.2    303.2    204.8  1,326.9                                   O
Operational Research                                        86.7    100.7    161.0    164.7    168.2    112.7    793.9
Other Studies                                               51.0      51.6      52.8      54.0      55.1      56.3    320.9
Surveys and Evaluative Studies                             224.4         -    316.7  1,242.0           -  1,295.7  3,078.8
Monitoring and Review Activities                           288.7    407.4    354.2    364.5    38B.7    323.9  2,127.4
Subtotal Consultants' services, studies and training  1,529.9  1,438.4  2,720.2  3,627.9  2,009.9  3,006.1 14,332.4
IEC Activities                                               194.5    429.2    921.3    945.7    849.1    734.6  4,074.4
Total Inves*nt Costs                                         3,404.5  3,059.2  8,368.4 12,907.8 11,711.8 12,644.1 52,095.7
Recurrent Costs
Salaries and Allowances                                        91.8     93.9      97.1    100.4    103.7    107.0    594.0
Operating Costs                                              624.4    373.5  1,782.3  2,437.0  1,745.6  1,875.7  8,838.4
Honoraria for Volunteers                                     197.4    199.8    806.8  1,417.5  1,517.6  1,622.5  5,761.5
Total Reourrent Costs                                           913.5    667.2  2,686.3  3,954.9  3,366.8  3,605.2 15,193.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            4,318.1  3,726.4 11,054.7 16,862.6 15,078.6 16,249.3 67,289.6
Thu Apr 06 11:49:26 1995
0



BANGLADESH
rNTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
cp.endLtur. Acoounts by ComponenCt  - Sas  Coats
(US$ '0001
National Level Nutrition Activities
Program                                       Project
Development  Information,  Strengthening Management,                           Inter-sectoral
and         Education      Existing       Monitoring   Conmnunity-Based    Nutrition                     Physical
Institution        and          Nutrition          and          Nutrition          Program                 Contingencies
Building    Communication  Activities        Evaluation        Component        Development    Total   _          Amount
Investment Costs
Good.
Vehicles                                                              --                                         100.0            206.0             220.0    326. 0    16.0    58.7
Equipment and Supplies                                                -               _          450 .0         132.1           1,669.2           1,495.5  3,746.6    14.9   556.6
Training Materials                                                    -               -              -               -            437.9             960.3  1,418.2         -        -
Books and Journals                                                 50.0               -              -               -                 -                -      50.0        -        -
IEC Materials                                                         -        1,370.0           675.0               -                 -             90.0  2,135.0         -        -
Therapeutic Nutrients                                                 -               -          942.4               -                 -                 -    942.4    15.0   141.4
Subtotal Good                                                        50.0        1370.0          2,067.4           232.1          2,213.1           2,695.8  8,616.4       8.8   756.8
Therapeutic Food Supplements                                            _       -                       -              -         18,639.5                  - 16,839.5    15.0 2,625.9
Consultants  servio     studies and training
Technical Assistance                                                  -          600.0           160.0        1, 36.0             247.8             300.0  2,675.8         -        -
Training                                                              -          720.0         1,035 .0              -            523.2             638.7  2,916.9         -        -
Fellowships                                                      650.0               -               -               -                -                 -    650.0         -        -
Workshops/Seminars                                              1,000.0               -          210.0               -                               4 47.6  1,257.6       -        -
Operational Research                                              450. 0              -          290.0               -                 -                -    740.0         -        -
Other Studies                                                     300.0                       -              -                -                          -    300.0        -        -
Surveys and Evaluative Studies                                        -               -               -       2,820.0                  -                -  2, 820.0        -        -
Monitoring and Review Activities                                  300.0          230.0           651.0           500.0                 -            310.0  1,991.0         -        -
Subtotal Consultants  srvices, studies and training               2,700.0        1,550.0         2,346.0         4,668.0             771.0          1,296.3 13,351.3         -        -                _
IEC Activitlea                                                          -        1,500.0         1,687.0               -                 -            589.6  3,776.8
Total Invstmnt Costs                                                2,750.0         4, 420.0       6, 100.4        4,920.1         21,823.6           4,571.9 44,586.0        8.0 3,582.7
Recurrnt Costs
Salaries and Allowances                                                 -               -          297.0           204.6                 -              53.4    555.0         -       -
Operating Costs                                                          -              -               -          337.9          5,536.1           2 ,292.4  6,166.4         -        -
Honoraria for Volunteers                                                 -              -               -              -          5,260.0                  -  5,280.0         -       -
Total Recurrent Costs                                                      -              -           297.0          542.5          10,816.1           2,34S 8 14,001.4
Total DJLnMr  COSTS                                                  2,750.0         4, 420.0        6,397.4        5,462 .6         32 ,639.7          6,917.7 58, 587.4      6.1 3,582.7
Physical Contingencies                                                    -              -          208.9            37.8          3,095.4              240 .7  3, 52.7        -        -
rrioe Contingentes
Inflation
Local                                                            280.0          43.7          1, 028.3          726.0          6,539.0             741.1  9,752.9         -        -
Foreign                                                           54.5           25.7             4.5           62.2              14.2               9.6    170.7         -        -
Subtotal Inflation                                                 334.5          464.4         1, 032.7          788.2          6,553.2             750.6  9, 923.6        -        -
Devaluation                                                       -134.1         -263.6          -513..          -351.1         -3,207.5            -334 .3 -4,804.1        -        -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                                         200.4           200.9           519.0          437.1           3,345.7             416.4  5,119.5       6.4   329.1
Total POaJECT COSTS                                                  2,950.4         4, 620.9        7,125.3        5,937 .5         39,080. 8          7 ,574.7 67,289.6      5.6 3 ,912.4
Taxes                                                                     -              -               -           75.6              59.6             669.8    805.2    13.5   109.0
Foreign Exchange                                                     854.5           400.7          104.5         1,030.3             254.0            293.4  2, 937.4       2.0    58.8
Thu Apr 06 11:42:20 1995
a>
CD;
Oi X4



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
lxpendittre Acocunts by Components - Totals Xncluding Contingenoies
(US$ '000)
National Level Nutrition Activities
Program                                      Project
Development  Information,  Strengthening Management                         Inter-sectoral
and         Education      Existing      Monitoring   Community-Based    Nutrition
Institution        and         Nutrition         and          Nutrition         Program
Building    Communication  Activities    Evaluation          Component       Development    Total
Investn nt Costs
Vehicles                                                            -              -              -          119.3            132.5            143.4    395.2
Equipment and Supplies                                              -              -          565 .4         151.9          2,089.8          1,811.5  4,630.6
Training Materials                                                  -              -              -              -            477 .3         1,033.3  1,510.6
Books and Journals                                               53.2              -              -              -                -                 -     53.2
IEC Materials                                                       -           ,335 .6       727 .6             -                -              96.3  2,159.5
Therapeutic Nutrients                                               -              -        1,182.6              -                 -                -  1,182.6
Sibtotal Goods                                                     53.2        1,335.6        2,475.6          277 .2         2, 699 .7         3,090.5  9, 931 .8
Therapeutic Food Supplements                                          -              -               -             -         23,757.1                 - 23,757.1
Consultant.' services, studies and training
Technical Assistance                                                -          640.0          169.3        1,462.0            261.5            310.6  2,843.4
Training                                                            -          775. 4       1,131.3              -            558 .8           674.9  3,140.5
Fellowships                                                     700.7              -              -              -                -                 -    700.7
Workshops/Seminars                                            1,081.2              -          196 .2             -                 _             49.5  1,326.9
Operational Research                                            486. 3             -          307.5              -                -                 -    793. 9
Other Studies                                                   320.9              -              -              -                 -                -    320.9
Surveys and Evaluative Studies                                      -              -              -        3, 078 .8               -                -  3, 07 8.8
Monitoring and Review Activities                                308.1          24 .6          702.8          539. 1                -            329.7  2,127.4
Subtotal Consultants' s*rvioes, studies and training            2, 897 .2      1,663.1        2,507.1        5, 079. 9           820. 3         1,364.7 14 ,332. 4
IEC Activities                                                       7-        1, 622 .2      1, 824 .5            -                 -            627 .7  4 ,074. 4
total Snvesatnnt Coats                                            2,950.4        4 ,620. 9      6,807.2         5,357.1        27,277.1           5,083.0 52,095.7
Recurrent Costs
Salaries and Allowances                                               -              -          318.1          218.8                 -             57.1    594.0
Operating Costs                                                       -              -               -         361.5          6, 042 .2         2, 434 .6  8, 838. 4
Honoraria for Volunteers                                              -              -               -              -         5,761.5                 -  5,761.5
Total Pecurrent Costs                                                   -               -         318.1           580.4         11,803.7          2,491 .8 15,193.9
Total PR1J3CY COSTS                                                2,950.4        4,620 .9       7,125.3         5, 937 .5       39,080. 8         7, 574 .7 67,289.6
Taxes                                                                  -              -               -          75.8              59.6            669.8    805.2
Foreign Exchange                                                   854.5          400.7          104.5        1,030.3             254 .0           293.4  2,937.4
Thu Apr 06 11:45:10 1995
0
IL_



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 1.I. National Level Nutrition Activities: Program Development and Institution Building
DBtailod Costs
(US$ '000)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont.
Local
Base Cost                                           Totals Including Contingencies                       For.    (ExCl.  Duties
1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     Total   1996       1997     199S      1999     2000     2001      Total   Exch.  Taxes)   6 Taxes  Total
Inv.st nt Costs
Research and Studi.s
Institution Review                 100.0   200.0           -        -         -        -   300.0   101.6   206.6             -        -        -         -   308.1   153.9   154.2            -   308.1
Operational Research                 50.0     50.0      50.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   450.0           51.0     51.6     52.8   108.0   110.3   112.7   486.3               -   486.3         -   486.3
Other Studies                       50.0      50.0     50.0      50.0    50.0       50.0   300.0       51.0     51.6    52 .9      54 .0    55.1      56.3   320.9          -   320. 9        -   320. 9
Subtotal  eseazob a"d Studies   200.0    300.0    100.0    150.0    150.0    150.0 1,050.0   203.6   309.    105.6   162 .0   165.4   169.0 1,115.3    153.9   961 .5                            - 1,115.3
Books/Journals                         12.5      7.5       7.5      7.5       7.5      7.5      50.0     12.9       7.7      1.9      8.1       8.3      8.5     53.2         -    53.2          -    53.2
Workshops and Seminars                 50.0     50.0   250.0    250.0   250.0    150.0 1,000.0           51.0      51.6   263.9   270.0    275.7   169.0 1.081.2              - 1,081.2          - 1,081.2
Fellowships and Study Tours            50.0     50.0    150.0    150.0   150.0   100.0   650.0           50.5     51.7    158.4   161.9   165.4   112.7   100.1   700.7                -         -   700.7
Total                                    312.5    407.5    507.5    557.5    557.5    407.5 2,750.0    317.9    420.9    535.9    602.0    614.8   459.2 2,950.4    954.5 2,095.9                   - 2,950. 4
Thu Apr 06 11:27:33 1995
II



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 1.2. National Level Nutrition Activities: Information Education And Coneunication
D,t.aild Costs
(USS '0001)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont.
Local
Base Cost                                              Totals Including Contir.gencies                        For.    (Excl.  Duties
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      total    1996      1997      1996      1999     2000      2001      Total   Exch.  raxes)   6 Taxes  Total
Invrstw, nt Costs
IEC Material Development                   100.0    100.0    250.0           -         -         -   450.0    102.0    103.2    263.9             -         -        -   469.2           -   469.2          -   469.2
IEC Material Production                     50.0    170.0    200.0    200.0    150.0    150.0    920.0           50.0    165.5    191.4    187.8    137.6    134.2    866.5              -   666.5          -   866.5
Training                                    50.0    100.0    150.0    150.0    140.0    130.0    720.0           51.0    103.2    158.4    162.0    154.4    146.5    775.4              -   775.4           -   775.4
IEC Activities                              50.0    150.0    350.0    350.0    300.0    300.0 1,500.0            51.0    154.9    369.5    378.0    330.8    338.0 1,622.2               - 1,622.2          - 1,622.2
Monitoring and RBview Activities            20.0      30.0      50.0      50.0      30.0      50.0    230.0      20.4      31.0      52.9      54.0     33.1      56.3    247.6          -   247.6           -   247.6
TounioAl Assistanoe
International                            25.0      50.0    100.0    100,0    100.0            -   375.0       25.3      51.7    105.6    107.9    110.3            -   400.7    400.7           -         -   400.7
Local                                     32.5      32.5     62.5      47.5      42.5       7.5    225.0       33.2     33.6      66.0      51.3      46.9       8.5   239.3           -   239.3          -   239.3
Snbtotal T niocs.l  Assistanoe              57.5      e2.5    162.5    147.5    142.5          7.5    600.0      58.4      85.2    171.6    159.2    157.2         8.5       640.0       400.7     239.3     _   640.0
Total                                          327.5    632.5 1,162.5    897.5    762.5    637.5 4,420.0    332.6    643.0 1,207.5    941.0    813.0   663.5 4,620.9    400.7 4,220.1                           - 4,620.9
Thu Apr 06 11:26:34 1995
00
tCD
or
O _
0'-



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PRtOJECT
Table 1.3. National Level Nutritlon Activities: Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities
Detailed Costs
(Us$ '000)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont.
Loca 1
Base Cost                                         Totals Including Contingencies                     For.   (Excl.  Duties
1996     1997     1999     1999    2000      2001    Total   1996    1997    199B    1999    2000    2001    Total   Exch.  Taxes)  A Taxes  Total
Invest at Costs
Technical Aasistaoo,
Local                               5.0      5.0    12.5    12.5    12.5    12.5    60.0            5.1      5.2    13.2    13.5    13.8    14.1    64.8             -    64.8         _    64.8
International                         -    50.0    50 0           -        -        -   100.0         -    51.7    52.9          -        -        -   104.5   104.5          -    I        104.5
Subtotal tecbnicu. Assistance        5.0    55.0    62.5    12.5    12.5    12.5   160.0             5.1    56.8    66.0    13.5    13.8   .14.1   169.3   104.5    64 .                 -   169.3
IEC Activities                       65.0   170.0   382.0   385.0   340.0   345.0 1,687.0    66.3   175.5   403.3   415.8   374 .9   389.7 1,824.5                     - 1,824.5         - 1,824.5
IEC Material Development             70.0    80.0   225.0   125.0   135.0   140.0   675.0    71.4    82.6   132.0   135.0   14B.9   157.7   727.6                      -   727.6          -   727.6
Workshops/Seminars                   10.0    10.0    25.0    95.0    30.0    40.0   210.0    10.0               9.7    23.9    B9.2    27.5    35.9   196.2             -   196.2         -   196.2
Monitoring and Evaluation            61.0    62.0   125.5   132.5   132.5   137.5   651.0    62.2    64.0   132.5   143.1   146.1   154.9   702.8                       -   702.9         -   702.8
Training                             47.5    62.5   132.5   177.5   257.5   357.5 1,035.0    48.5    64.5   139.9   191.7   283.9   402.8 1,131.3                       - 1,131.3         - 1,131.3
Therapeutic Nutrients                31.0    31.0   136.4   248.0   248.0   248.0   942.4    36.4    36.8   165.6   308.0   314.5   321.3 1,182.6                       - 1,182.6         - 1,182.6
Supplies                             20.0     35.0    50.0    75.0   120.0   150.0   450.0    23.5    41.6    60.7    93.1   152.2   194.4   565.4                      -   565.4         -   565.4
operational Research                 35.0    47.5   102.5    52.5    52.5             -   290.0    35.7    49.0   108.2    56.7    57.9               -   307.5         -   307.5         -   307.5
total Iflv5st  nt Coats               344.5   553.0 1,141.4 1,303.0 1,328.0 1,430.5 6,100.4    359.0   580.6 1,232.1 1,446.1 1,519.7 1,669.7 6,807.2    104.5 6,702.7                       - 6,807.2
Recurrnt Costs
Salaries                             47.0    49.0    49.0    50.0    51.0    52.0   297.0    47.9    49.6    51.7    54.0    56.2    58.6   318.1    _                      318.1         _   318.1
total  ecurr-ent Costs                  47.0     48.0     49.0    50.0    51.0       52.0   297.0       47.9    49.6    51.7       54.0    56.2      58.6   318.1         -   318.1    _         318.1
Total                                   391.5   601.0 1,190.4 1,353.0 1,379.0 1,402.5 6,397.4   406.9   630.1 1,283.8 1,500.1 1,575.9 1,728.3 7,125.3   104.5 7,020.8                        - 7,125.3
Thu Apr 06 11:29:36 1995
a--
0-
O _4



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 1.4. National Level Nutrition Activities:  Project Management  Monitoring and Evaluation
Detailed Costm
(USS '000)
Breakdown of Totals I
Cont.
Local
Base Cost                                           Totals Including Contingencies                       For.   (Excl.  Duties
1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     Total   1996       1997     1998      1999     2000     2001      Total   Exch.  Taxes)  & Taxes
InVestment Costa
Vehicles                                               100. -0                                                  100.0   119.3           -        -        -         -        -   119.3    65.6           -     51.7
Equipment                                                55.5        -         -         -        -        -    55.5       65.0        -         -        -        -         -     65.0      3.2     39.7      22.1
Supplies and Furniture                                   32.9      7.7       7.7     12.9       7.7      7 .7    76.6      38.5      9.2       9.4     16.1      9.8     10.0      92.9         -    92.9         -
Surveys and Reviews /a                                 220.0          -   300.0 1,150.0           - 1,150.0 2, 820.0   22 .4            -   316.7 1,242.0          - 1,295.7 3,078.8            - 3,078.8         -
monitoring and review activities                         50.0     50.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   500.0            51.0     51.6   105.6   108.0   110.3   112.7    539.1               -   539.1         -
National Advisor                                         18.0     18.0      18.0     18.0      18.0     18.0   108.0       18.4     18.6     19.0    19.4       19.8     20.3   115.5           -   115.5         -
Ieanant A teohbaeal Support Team
International Consultant                             150.0   150.0    150.0    150.0   150.0   150.0   900.0   151.7   155.0   158.4   161.9   165.4    169.1   961.4   961.4                         -         -
Local Consultants                                     60.0      60.0     60.0      60.0    60.0      60.0   360.0       61.2     61.9      63.3    64 .8    66.2    67.6    385.0            -   385. 0
Subtotal Manaqant  Teohbioal Support Team    210.0    210.0    210.0    210.0    210.0    210.0 1,260.0    212.9    216.9    221.7   226.7    231.6   236.7 1,346.5    961.4    385. 
total Investeant Costs                                    686.3   285.1    635.7 1,490.9    335.1 1,485.7 4,920.1    729.5    296.3   672.4 1,612.1    371.5 1,675.3 5,357.1 1,030.3 4,251.1                     75.8
Renrrent Costs
Salaries /b                                              34.1     34.1      34.1     34.1      34.1     34.1   204.6       34.8     35.2     36.0    36.8       37.6     38.4    218.8          -   218.8         -
Other Incromental Operating Costs                        55.7     55.7      56.1     56.8      56.8     56.8    337.9      56.8     57.5      59.2     61.3     62.6      64.0   361.5          -   361.5
total   aurrant Costs                                      89.8     89.8      90.2      90.9     90.9     90.9    542.5      91.6      92.7     95.2     98.2    100.2    102.4    580.4          -   50.4-
Total                                                      776.1    375.5   725.9 1,581.8   426.6 1,576.6 5,462.6   821.1    389.0   767.6 1,710.3    471.7 1,777.7 5,937.5 1,030.3 4,831.4                        75.8
\a Includes Baseline Surveys, and Mld-Term and Final EvaluatLons.
\b Includes propoaed costs for Project Directorate, and Intersectoral Nutiritlon cell.
Thu Apr 06 11:31:06 1995
co
- >4
0-



DBGLADE5H
INTEGRATD NUTB3TION PJECT
Table 2. Community Based Nutritlon Conponent
DetmAled Costs
(USS  000
Breakdown of Tot
Local
Base Cost                                                  Totals Including Contingencies                          For.    IExcl.
1996      1997      1996      1999      2000       2001    Total       1996      1997      1998      1999      2000       2001    Total    Exch.    Taxes)
Inveatment Coat.
Therapeutic Food Supplaments                 271.8    543.7  1,888.7  4,570.3  5,841.4  5,723.8 16,839.5    316.8    645.5  2,293.0  5,676.1  7,407.4  7,416.3 23,757.1                         - 23,757.1
Vehicles                                       15.9         -      45.1      45.1          -         -    106.0       19.0         -      56.1       57.4         -         -    132.5       72.9         -
Equipment and Supplies                        74.2       60.5    271.7    443.6    407.4         411.8  1,669.2       87.0      71.8    329.9    550.9    516.6    533.6  2,089.8    104.5  1,985.4
Tx&itdni
Training Activities                         64.0        4.8    186.6    200.1        33.4      34.4    523.2        65.3       4.9    196.9    216.1        36.8       38.6    558.8          -    558.8
Training Materials                          17.0       17.0      65.0    113.0    113.0    113.0    437.9           17.3      17.5      68.6    122.0    124.6    127.3    477.3              -    477.3
Subtotal TrAimin                               61.0      21.7    251.5    313.1    146.4    147.4    961.1            82.6      22.4    265.5    338.2    161.4    166.1  1,036.2               -  1,036.2
Tecbnica.] xamistamoo
Local                                       28.8      26.8       28.8      26.8      26.6      28.8    172.8        29.4      29.7      30.4      31.1       31.8      32.4    184.8          -    164.8          C
International                               37.5      37.5          -         -         -          -     75.0       37.9      38.7         -         -          -         -     76.7       76.7         -
Subtotal T*obnio^' Assistatmns                 66.3      66.3      28.8      28.6       28.6      28.8    247.8       67.3      68.5      30.4       31.1      31.8      32.4    261.5       76.7    184.8
Eot.a  lnvestnt Costs                           509.2    692.2  2,485.7  5,400.6  6,423.9  6,311.6 21,823.6    574.7    808.2  2,974.9  6,653.7  8,117.1  8,148.4 27,277.1    254.0 26,963.5
x0ouxrent Coast
2ndrmntal Operating Cost.
Mleeting Costs                             103.5    103.5    396.8    690.0    690.0          690.0  2,673.8    105.6    106.9    418.9    745.2    760.9    777.4  2,914.8                   -  2,914.8
other Operating Costs                        96.8      96.8    400.1    674.4    756.2    838.0  2,862.3            99.6     100.0    422.3    728.3    833.9    944.2  3,127.4             _    3,127.4
Subtotal Inor, ata.l. Operating Costs    200.3    200.3    796.9  1,364.4  1,446.2  1,528.0  5,536.1                 204.3    206.8    841.3  1,473.5  1,594.7  1,721.6  6,042.2                -  6,042.2
Honoraria for Voluteers                       193.5    193.5      764,3  1,312.5  1,376.3  1,440.0  5,280.0    197.4    199.8    806.8  1,417.5  1,517.6  1,622.5  5,761.5                      -  5,761.5
Total Racurrent Coast                           393.8     393.6   1,561.1  2,676.9  2,822.5  2,968.0 10,616.1    401.7    406.6  1,648.1  2,a91.0  3,112.3  3,344.1 11,603.7                       _ 11,e03.7
Total                                            903.0  1,086.0  4,046.8  8,077.7  9,246.4  9,279.8 32,639.7    976.4  1,214.9  4,623.0  9,544.7 11,229.4 11,492.5 39,060.8    254.0 36,767.2
Thu Apr 06 11:33:06 1995
I- -



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 3. Inter-sectoral Nutrition Program Development
Detkiled costs
(US$ '000)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont.
Local
Base Cost                                         Totals Including Contingencies                     For.   (Excl.  Duties
1996     1997     1996     1999    2000    2001    Total   1996         1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total   Exch.  Taxes)  A Taxes  Total
Inv'stnt Costs
Int-r-seatoral Putrition  Find
Vehicles                               115.8        -      2.1      2.1         -        -   120.0   138.1          -     2.6      2.7         -        -   143.4    70.9          -    64.5   143.4
Equipment                             235.4         -   612.5   612.5          -        - 1,460.4   275.9           -   743.6   760.7          -        - 1,780.2    88.9 1,086.1   605.3 1,780.2
Supplies                                 5.3        -    14.9    14.9           -        -    35.1       5.4        -    15.7    16.1          -        -    37.2         -    37.2         -    37.2
Training Materials                    283.8         -   346.0   350.5           -        -   980.3   289.5          -   365.3   378.5          -        - 1,033.3         - 1,033.3         - 1,033.3
Trhin ing
Training Activities                 105.7    16.0   242.5   242.5            -        -   606.7   107.8    16.5   256.0   261.9             -         -   642.2         -   642.2         -   642.2
Foreign Training                     19.5    12.5          -        -        -        -    32.0    19.7    12.9           -        -        -        -    32.6    32.6           -       -    32.6
Subtotal Traininq                      125.2     28.5   242.5   242.5           -        -   638.7   127.5    29.4   256.0   261.9             -            674.9    32.6   642.2           -   674.9
WOorkshops/Seminars/Publlcatlons        11.3    13.8    22.5           -        -        -    47.6    11.5    14.2    23.8            -        -        -    49.5         -    49.5         -    49.5
Te*hnioal Assistae *
International                        30.0    30.0    30.0           -        -        -    90.0    30.3    31.0    31.7            -        -        -    93.0    93.0           -       -    93.0         00
Local                                70.0    70.0    70. 0                 _ I _           210.0    71.4    72.3    73.9                   _ _        -   217.6         -   217.6         -   217.6
Sobtot-1 TS.hniosl Aista               100.0   100.0   100.0          -         -        -   300.0   101.7   103.3   105.6            -        -        -   310.6      93.0   217.6         -   310.6
IEC Activities                          75.7     95.7   140.7   140.7   130.0         7.0   589.8    77.2    98.8   148.5   152.0   143.3 73                627.7         -   627.7         -   627.7
TEC Materials                           10.0    10.0    20.0    20.0    30.0             -    90.0    10.2    10.3    21.1    21.6    33.1              -    96.3         -    96.3         _    96.3
Monitoring and Evaluation               52.5    52.5    60.0    55.0    90.0             -   310.0    53.6    54.2    63.3    59.4    99.2              -   329.7         -   329.7         _   329.7
TotAl Inv"stsnt Coats                    1,015.0   300.5 1,561.2 1,439.2    250.0          7.0 4,571.9 1,090.7    310.3,745.6  1,652.0    275.'           7.9 5,003.0   293.4 4,119.7   669.6 5,083.0
r-orr-nt Coat.
Salaries                                   8.9      8.9      8.9      8.9       8.9      8.9     53.4      9.1      9.2      9.4      9.6      9.8    10.0    57.1          -    57.1         -    57.1
incremental Operating Costs              110.4   105.7   039.1   139.1    80.0    00.0   654.3   112.6   109.1   146.9   150.2                0E.2    90.1   637 2          -   697.2         -   97.2
Credit                                   245.7             696,2   696.2          -         - 1,630.1   250.6         -        735.0   751.9 _   -        - 1,737 5 3    _I - 1,737.$          - 1,737.5
total t.ctrrsnt Costa                       365.0   114.6   844.2   844.2   088.9  988.9 2,345 8    372.3   118.3_ 891.2  911.7    99.0   100.2 2 491.9                        - 2,491          - 2,4'91.8
total                                     1,300.0    415.1 2,405.4 2,202.4    330.9        95.9 6,91'.7 1,463.0    428.6 2,636.9 2,564.5    373.7    10i.1 7,574.7    293.4 6,611.5    669.3 7.574.7
Tnu Apr 06 11:35:40 1995
PO
UC7
Orb
O -



109
Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
IDA Disbursement Schedule
Projected Disbursements               Cumulative
(US$ millions)
IDA Fiscal Year
and Semester            Semester     Cumulative    Disbursement    Comparable
Percentage    Disbursement
Profile
1996
1st (Jul 95-Dec 95)*           1.65          1.65               2.8
2nd (Jan 96-Jun 96)            1.65          3.30               5.5              4.5
1997
1st (Jul 96-Dec 96)           1.80           5.10              8.5
2nd (Jan 97-Jun 97)           1.80           6.90             11.5             16
1998
1st (Jul 97-Dec 97)           4.80           11.70            19.6
2nd (Jan 98-Jun 98)           4.80           16.50            27.6              32
1999
1st (Jul 98-Dec 98)            7.30          23.80            39.8
2nd (Jan 99-Jun 99)            7.30          31.10            52.0              54
2000
1st (Jul 99-Dec 99)           7.05           38.15            63.8
2nd (Jan 2000-Jun 2000)       7.05           45.20            75.6              74
2001
1st (Jul 2000-Dec 2000)       7.30           52.50            87.8
2nd (Jan 2001-Jun 2001)       7.30           59.80           100.0              97
2002
1st (Jul 2001-Dec 2001)          -              -               -              100
Closing Date: December 31, 2001
*   Includes retroactive financing of 0.5 million.
Note; The disbursement percentages projected for this project broadly match the
disbursement profile for Bank-financed social sector projects except for the initial
three years when the project is expected to disburse smaller amounts due to the
gradual phasing of its core component.



110
Annex 13
Page 1 of 9
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Organizational Chart for Project Implementation
Th| NutiBINP National       l
Ma| eeSteering Committee
U      National Nutrition          BINP Administrative
ComManagementmi  Ceellna MOHFW
I~~~~~~~I-
|     ~~BINP Project     l
|        ~~Office
District NutriFtion  _-
Mangm ent Committee
|Thana Nutrition         11BINP Thana 
Managemf nt Committee                      Officel
Union Nutrition       _BINP Union Office/
Management Committee                  Traininu Centre
Village Nutriton                Community Nutriton
Management Committee                 Centre (at Village)



111
Annex 13
Page 2 of 9
PROPOSED ORGANOGRAM OF THE PROJECT OFFICE
Project Director
I x P.D.
1 x Stenographer
I x M.L.S.
Dy. Project Director                                Dy. Proj. Director
Dy. Project Director         Program, Monitoring        Dy. Project Director   Information, Education
Training                    & Evaluation           Admin. & Financing       & Communication
I x Dy. P.D.            i x Dy. P.D.                    I x Dy. P.D.          1 x Dy. P.D.
I x Stenographer        2 x Computer Programmer         I x Stenographer      I x Stenotypist
I x M.L.S.              I x Asst. Computer Programmer    I x M.L.S.           I x M.L.S.S.
I x Stenographer                                     1 x Audio-visual Operator
2 x LD.O. Typist                                     I x L.D.A. Typist
_________ _______ 11   x   M .L.S._                                        _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _
Administration                Finance
I x Admin. Officer        I x Accounts Officer
1 x Storekeeper           1 x Audit Officer
2 x Upper Div. Asst.      1 x Accountant
1 x Transport Asst.       I x Auditor
I x Driver                1 x Cashier
I x L.D.A. Typist         I x L.D.A. Typist
I x Cycle Messenger       1 x M.L.S.S.



CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK OF INP ACTIVMES
AT VILLAGE LEVEL
BINP ACTIVITIES
_________F     ___   _7__             L
Administration                Service Delivery                     IEC                     Monitoring
Resp: VNMC                   Resp: CNP                   Resp: CNPNNMC                   Resp: CNP/CNO
Major Activities                      Major Activities            Major Activities             Major Activities
1. Decision Making                    1. Supp. Feeding            1. Meetings                  1. Growth Monitoring
2. Beneficiary Selection              2. Motivation               2. Health Education          2. Record Keping
3. Supervision                        3. Book Keeping              3. Nutrition Education      3. Reporting to CNO
4. Audit                              4. Co-ordination             4. Orientation              4. Feedback to Comm.
* A Technical Commiftee consisted of HA/FWA, Block Supervisor, CNP and headed by Head Master of local Primary
School will be formed for selection of beneficiaries. The Technical Committee will recommend the names of beneficiaris
on the basis of some prefixed criteria and the VNMC will finalized the selection.
II



CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK OF BINP ACTIVITIES
AT UNION LEVEL
BINP ACTIVITIES
Advocacy                    Training                 Food Management                Coordination
|  Resp. UNMC        | |  Resp CNO                   Resp: CNO/UNMC                 Resp: CNO
Major Activities         Major Activities            Major Activities           Major Activities
1. Meeting               1. CMP Basic Trang.         1. Food Preparation       1. Reporting
2. IEC                   2. Refresher Training       2. Food Supply            2. Correspondence
3. Social Mobilization   3. Training Management      3. Quality Control         3. Record Keeping
4. Book Keeping
Sb



114
Annex 13
Page 5 of 9
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF BINP
VILLAGE            VNMC         MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
* Female VDP Leader
Major Responsibilities       * FWAs/HA
* NGO's Field Staff
a. Decision making           * Member Union Parishad (MUP) (Concern Village)
b. Beneficiary Selection     * Block Supervisor (Agriculture)
c. Supervision               * Headmaster of Local Primary School
d. Audit
Head of the Committee: MUP
Members Secretary  : FVDPL (CNA)
UNION              U            MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
* Female VDP Leader (CNO)
Major Responsibilities         Chairman Union Parishad
* Family Welfare Visitor
a. Meeting                     Members of Union Parishad
b. Coordination              * Assistant Health Inspector
c. Advisory Service          * Family Planning Inspector
d. Advocacy
e. IEC                        Head of the Committee: Chairman Union Parishad
Members Secretary : Female UVDP Leader (CNO)
THANA                           MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
* Thana VDP Officer
Major Responsibilities       * ATFPO
* Medical Officer (MCH)
a. Meeting                   * NGO Representatives
b. Coordination              * Thana Agriculture Officer
c. Advisory Service          * Thana Livestock Officer
d. Advocacy                  * Thana Fisheries Officer
e. IEC                       * Thana Women Affairs Officer
* Thana Social Welfare Officer
Head of the Committee : Thana Nirbahi Officer
Members Secretary   : ATFPO



115
Annex 13
Page 6 of 9
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF BINP
DISTRICT          DNM           MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
|LEVEL     l     ll
* Deputy Commissioner
Major Responsibilities       * Civil Surgeon
* District Agriculture Officer/DD Agriculture
a. Meeting                    District Livestock & Fisheries Officer
b. Coordination              * DD, Family Planning
c. Advisory Service          * Assistant Director Local Govt.
d. Advocacy                  * District Adjuitant, Ansar & VDP (DAVDP)
e. IEC                       Head of the Committee: DC
Members Secretary  : DAVDP
MINISTRY         NRMC           MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
|LEVEL     l
* Joint Secretary, MOHFW (CHAIRPERSON)
Major Responsibilities       * DS (BINP)
* AIC-1 (Health)
a. Decision Making           * Chief, Health Education Bureau
b. Administration            * Director IEM
c. Budgetary Approval        * Director Programme, BTV
d. Coordination              * Director Prog. Radio Bangladesh (Population Prog.)
e. Advocacy                  * Focal Point Officers of:
f. IEC                       * Ministry of Agriculture
g. Evaluation                * Ministry of Fisheries & Livestock
* DS (Border) Ministry of Home Affairs
* DS Local Govt.
* Representative



116
Annex 13
Page 7 of 9
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF BINP
|  NATIONAL    i   BINP         MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
LEVEAL            NSC     l
Secretary, MOHFW
Major Responsibilities       * Addl. Secretary, MOHFW
* Addi. Secretary, Agril/Or JS.
a. Policy Decision            JS (Home)-Border (Ansar & VDP)
b. Planning                  * JS/DY Chief (Livestock + Fisheries)
c. Evaluation                * JS (Local Govt.)
* DG Health
* DG (FP)
* DG NGO Bureau
* Director (Adm.) VDP + Ansars
* Rep. of WB
* Rep. of UNICEF
* Rep. of BRAC
* Secretary, BNNC
Director, IPHN
Director (Programme), BTV
* Director (Popn. Programme), Radio Bangladesh
* Chief Health Education Bureau
* PD BINP
Rep. of Planning Commission
* Rep. of IMED
* Rep. of ERD
A Joint Secretary, MOHFW (Member Secretary)



117
Annex 13
Page 8 of 9
PROPOSED PERSONNEL FOR BINP AT MINISTRY LEVEL
* Joint Secretary           -1
* Dy. Chief                  -1
* Assistant Chief            -1
* Research Officer           -1
* Planning Officer          -1
* System AnalysVProgra      -1
*PA                         -1
*STO                         -1
* Stenographer               -1
* MLSS                      -1



118
Abbreviation of terms used in this annex:                                      Annex 13
Village Level                                                                Page 9 of 9
CNP       -   Community Nutrition Promoter
VNMC          Village Nutrition Management Committee
VDP       -   Village Defence Party
FWA       -   Family Welfare Assistant
MUP       -   member Union Parishad
Union Level
CNO       -   Community Nutrition Organiser
UNMC      -   Union Nutrition Management Committee
UVDP      -   Union Village Defense Party (Female Organiser)
FWV       -   Family Welfare Visitor
MA        -   Medical Assistant
AHI       -   Assistant Health Inspector
FPI       -   Family Planning Inspector
CUP       -   Chairman Union Parishad
Thana Level
TNO       -   Thana Nirbahi Officer
TNMC      -   Thana Nutrition Management Committee
TVDO      -   Thana Village Defense Officer
ATFPO    -   Assistant Thana Family Planning Officer
MO        -   Medical Officer
MCH       -   Maternity Child Health
EPI       -   Expanded Projgram of Immunization
TAO       -   Thana Agriculture Officer
TLS&FO   -   Thana Livestock and Fisheries Officer
District Level
DNMC      -   District Nutrition Management Committee
DC        -   Deputy Commissioner
CS        -   Civil Surgeon
DL&FO    -   District Livestock and Fisheries Officer
DDFP      -   Deputy Director Family Planning
ADLG      -   Assistant Director Local Govt.
DAVDO    -   District Ansar & Village Defence Officer
Project Office Level
PD        -   Project Director
DD        -   Deputy Director
APD       -   Assistant Project Director
PO        -   Planning Officer
RO        -   Research Officer
STO       -   Statistical Officer
National Level
JS        -   Joint Secretary
MOHFW   -   Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
DS        -   Deputy Secretary
FPO       -   Focal Point Officer
NNMC      -   National Nutrition Management Committee
NSC       -   National Steering Committee



119
Annex 14
Page l of 3
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Activity          Pre-project   1st year     2nd year       3rd year     4th year       5th year       6th year
Create Project Directorate   xxxxxxxxxx
(including recruitment)
Create Inter-Sectoral Nut.   xxxxxxxxxx
Cell & recruit staff
TOR for NGO involvement   xxxxxxxxxx
Finalize MOU between        xxxxxxx
GOB & INMU
Sign contract with                      x
selected NGO for 1 st year
of CBNC
Sign contract with INMU                 x
for technical cooperation
Formative research for IEC   xxxxxxxxxx
message and material
development
Process bids for IEC                    xxxx
message & material
development
IEC message & material                    xxxx
development
Training curricula          xxxxxxxx
development
Training material                       xxxxxx
production
Recruitment of trainers                 xxxxxx
Procurement of                          xxxxxx
equipment, furniture &
vehicles for the project
directorate
Procure equiment and                    xxxxxx
supplies for field operation
in 1 st yr. thanas
Baseline Surveys in 1 st      xxxxxxx
year thanas
Social mobilization in 1st              xxx
yr thanas.



120
Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
Recruit CNPs, CNOs in 1st                 xxx
yr thanas.
Train TNCs. CNPs. CNOs                      xxx
in 1 st yr. thanas
Establish small-scale                     xxxxxx
industry/women's groups
and train to prepare &
package supplem. foods in
1st yr. thanas
CBNC activities in 1st yr.                   xxxx    xxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxx
thanas
Select 17 more thanas                   xxx
Procure equiment and                                 xxxxxx
supplies for field operation
in 3rd yr. thanas
Baseline Surveys in 3rd                     xxxxx
year thanas
Social mobilization in 3rd                            xxxxx
yr thanas.
Recruit CNPs. CNOs in 3rd                              xxxxx
yr thanas.
Train TNCs, CNPs, CNOs                                   xxxxxx
in 3rd yr. thanas
Establish small-scale                                  xxxxxxxxx
industry/women's groups
and train to prepare &
package supplem. foods in
3rd yr. thanas
CBNC activities in 3rd yr.                                          xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxx
thanas
Select 18 more thanas                                 xxx
Procure equiment and                                                xxxxxx
supplies for field operation
in 4th yr. thanas
Baseline Surveys in 4th                                  xxxxx
year thanas
Social mobilization in 4th                                          xxxxx
yr thanas.
Recruit CNPs. CNOs in 4th                                             xxxxx
yr thanas.
Train TNCs. CNPs, CNOs                                                  xxxxxx
in 4th yr. thanas
I,.          .-.-..----



121
Annex 14
Page 3 of 3
Establish small-scale                                                xxxxxxxxx
industry/women's groups
and train to prepare &
package supplem. foods in
4th yr. thanas
CBNC activities in 4th yr.                                                        xxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxx
thanas
Finalize inter-sectoral sub-   xxxxxxxxxx
project proposals
Implement pre-determined                xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx        xxxxxxxxxx
inter-sectoral subprojects
Invite new proposals for                xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxx     xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx
inter-sectoral sub-projects,
screen proposals and fund
for implementation
Develop monitoring        xxxxxxxxxx
instruments for all project
components
Establish information                   xxx
systems to collect data
Monitoring activities                   xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx
Review of national level                xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxx
institutions engaged in
nutrition work
Policy decision on roles of                              xx
various institutions based
on review
Fellowships, study tours,                            xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx
exchange programs
Mid-term evaluation                                                               xxx
Final evaluation                                                                                                     xxx



122
Annex 15
Page 1 of 1
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Supervision Mission Schedule
MISSION               MONTH AND YEAR
Project Launch                July, 1995
1st Supervision Mission       September, 1995
2nd Supervision Mission       March, 1996
3rd Supervision Mission       September, 1996
4th Supervision Mission       March, 1997
5th Supervision Mission       September, 1997
6th Supervision Mission       March, 1998
7th Supervision Mission       September, 1998
8th Supervision Mission       March, 1999
9th Supervision Mission       September, 1999
10th Supervision Mission      March, 2000
11th Supervision Mission      September, 2000
12th Supervision Mission      March, 2001



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
ESTIMATED NUMBERS OF DIRECT BENEFICIARIES OF SUPPLEMENTARY FEEDING
Pregnant Women                                             Number of beneficiaries by ear                                               |
1995         1996         1997         1998         1999        2000 TOTAL
_New I'hanas introduced              3                        19           18
PER THANA
Preg. Wom.    Maln. (60%)    Coverage
Year 1        8000         4800         1920         5,760            0       36,480       34,560            0            0
Year 2        8000         4800         3840                      11,520           0       72,960       69,120            0
Year 3        8000         4800         3840                                   11,520           0       72,960       69,120
Year 4        8000         4800         3840                                               11,520            0       72,960
Year 5        8000         4800         3840                                                            11,520            0
Year 6        8000         4800         3840                                                                         11,520
Total               5,760       11,520       48,000      119,040      153,600      153,600     491,520
____ _  __ ____ ___ ____ ____ _  _ ____ ____ ___ ____ __  _ ___ ____   ___ ___ ___  ____ ___  O ut   of  total  screened:  819,200
LactatinP Women                                            Number of benericiaries by year                     _
l________           1995         1996         1997         1998         1999         2000 TOTAL
New Thanas introduced                3                        19           18
PER THANA
Lact. wom.  Maln. (60%)    Coverage
Year 1        7000         4200         1680          5,040           0       31,920       30,240            0            0
Year 2        7000         4200         3360                      10,080           0       63,840       60,480            0
Year 3        7000         4200         3360                                   10,080           0       63,840       60,480
Year 4        7000         4200         3360                                                10,080           0       63,840
Year 5        7000         4200         3360                                                  ,          10,080           0
Year 6  _     7000         4200         3360               l                                          _              10,080
ITotal               5,040       10,080      42,000      104,160      134,400      134,400      430,080
______    ___________  I__________  I__________  I__________  I_______ _  IO ut  of  total  screened:        716,800
It is difficult to determine the number of indirect beneficiaries due to changes in household behaviors - the central strategy of the
project - and other project inputs. Supplementary feeding is mainly a demonstrative tool for IEC and incentive for mothers and
children to come to the Community Nutrition Center.
o 0



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
ESTIMATED NUMBERS OF DIRECT BENEFICIARIES OF SUPPLEMENTARY FEEDING
Severely malnourished children Under 2 vrs.                                            Number of beneficiaries by ear
I____  1                          1995         1996          1997         1998         1999         2000 TOTAL
|New Thanas introduced                5                        17            18
PER THANA
Children     Maln. (25%)    Coverage
Year 1       12000          3000         1200          6,000            0       20,400        21,600            0            0
Year 2       12000          3000         2400                      12,000            0        40,800       43,200            0
Year 3       12000          2400         1920                        .            9,600            0       32,640       34,560
Year 4       12000          1800         1440                                      _           7,200            0       24,480
Year 5       12000          1500         1200                                                               6,000            0
Year 6       12000          1500         1200                                                                            6,000
_ Total              6,000       12,000        30,000       69,600       81,840       65,040       264,480
Out of total screened:        1,057,920
Mod. main. & Growth faltering children under 2.rs.                                     Number ot' beneficiaries by year
_            l                    1995         1996          1997         1998         1999         2000 TOTAL
_New Thanas introduced                5                        17            18
PER THANA
Children     MM&GF(60%)   Coverage                                                    _
Year 1       12000          7200         2880         14,400            0       48,960        51,840            0            0
Year2        12000          7200         5760                      28,800            0        97,920      103,680            0 
Year 3       12000          7200         5760          _                         28,800            0       97,920       103,680 0
Year 4       12000          7200         5760                                                 28,800            0       97.920 103.680
Year 5       12000          7200         5760                                                              28,800            0
Year 6       12000          7200         5760                                                                           28,800
_Total              14,400       28,800        77,760      178,560      230,400       230,400      760,320
l__________   ___________                            _             _                         Out of total screened:        1,267,200
It is difficult to determine the number of indirect beneficiaries due to changes in household behaviors - the central strategy of the
project - and other project inputs. Supplementary feeding is mainly a demonstrative tool for IEC and incentive for mothers and :
children to come to the Community Nutrition Center.                                                                                             
t'.)O



125
Annox 17
Page 1 of 1
BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.   The Project Implementation Volume (PIV), including detailed implementation
and monitoring plans.
2.   Project Concept Paper (PCP) and Project Proforma (PP) [yet to be prepared].
3.   Detailed Analysis of nutrition situation in Bangladesh
4.   Review of Food Security in Bangladesh and Related Programs and Issues
5.   Health and Family Planning (FP) Program in Bangladesh
6.   Linkages Between the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project and Existing
Health and FP Program
7.   Growth Monitoring and Promotion - The Concepts
8.   Issues Concerning Supplementary Feeding
9.   Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities
10.  Summary of Study Reports on Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (and
the individual detailed reports) - commissioned by UNICEF, Dhaka in
preparation for the project.
11.  Vulnerable Group Development - Impact Monitoring Report.   Development
Research Centre, October, 1993.
12.  Reports of various studies by International Food Policy Research Institute,
Dhaka on targeted food interventions and agricultural policy in Bangladesh.
13.  Nutrition Programme and Action Plan in the 1990's in the light of the World
Summit Declaration. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of
Bangladesh, 1991.


















