                                     Documentof
                                 TheWorld Bank




                                                    ReportNo.: 32563




              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                                  BANGLADESH

                      INTEGRATEDNUTRITIONPROJECT
                                (CREDIT 2735-BD)


                                    June 13,2005




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Bangladesh Taka

2002                       US$1.oo                 Tk. 59.93
                           Tk. 1                   US$0.01669


AbbreviationsandAcronyms

BINP                      Bangladesh IntegratedNutrition Project
BRAC                      BangladeshRuralAdvancement Committee
CBNC                      Community-Based Nutrition Component
CNC                       CommunityNutrition Center
CNO                       CommunityNutrition Organizer
CNP                       Community NutritionPromoter
EPS                       Executive Project Summary
GOB                       Government o f Bangladesh
ICR                       ImplementationCompletion Report
IEC                       Information, Educationand Communication
IEPS                      Initial Executive Project Summary
ICDDR,B                   IntemationalCenter for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh
LBW                       Low birthweight
M&E                       Monitoring and Evaluation
M C H                     Maternal and childhealth
MTR                       Midterm Review
MOHFW                     MinistryofHealthandFamilyWelfare
NGO                       Nongovernmental Organization
NNC                       NationalNutrition Component
"P                        NationalNutritionProject
OED                       Operations EvaluationDepartment
PPAR                      Project Performance Assessment Report
PSR                       Project Status Report
S A R                     StaffAppraisal Report
SD                        standard deviation
SENA                      Strengthening ExistingNutrition Activities
TINP                      Tamil Nadu IntegratedNutrition Project
VAT                       Value added tax
VNMC                      Village NutritionManagement Committee
UNICEF                    UnitedNations' Children's Fund



Fiscal Year

Government:               July 1-June 30

Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation            : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment          : Mr.R.KylePeters
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group     : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                             : Mr.HowardWhite

   OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results,and second, to help developimproveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lending operations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative, large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations; those for which
 Executive Directors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainabilify: The resilienceto risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfitufionalDevelopment Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the achievement
of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                       ill



Contents

PrincipalRatings           ................................................................................................................      v

Key Staff Responsible               ........................................................................................................     v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................         ..
                                                                                                                                               vi1

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................        ix

1 Background
  .                      ..................................................................................................................      1
                    Nutrition inBangladesh...............................................................................                        1
                    The World Bank and Nutrition....................................................................                             1
                    Project Preparation.,.....................................................................................                   2
2 .  ProjectObjectivesandDesign                           ....................................................................................   5
                    Objectives ....................................................................................................              5
                    Components .................................................................................................                 5
                    Geographic coverage ...................................................................................                      7
                    Design Issues ...............................................................................................                8
3 Implementation
  .                            ..........................................................................................................      10
                    Overview.,..................................................................................................                10
                    Inter-SectoralNutrition ProgramDevelopment........................................                                         -11
                   NationalNutrition Component ..................................................................                              12
                    Community-BasedNutrition Component ..................................................                                      13
                    Scaling-up to the National Nutrition Project .............................................                                 15
4.   Outputs and Outcomes by Objective                                .......................................................................  16
                   Objective 1:Institutionbuildingat national level......................................                                      16
                   Objective 2: Improve capacity o f communities to understand their
                          nutritionalproblems and take actions to addressthem.......................                                           -16
                                                                                                                                               19
5.  Ratings    ....................................................... ................................................................
                   Objective 3: Improve nutritional outcomes inproject areas......................
                                                                           ,                                                                   22
                   Outcome.....................................................................................................                22
                   InstitutionalDevelopment Impact..............................................................                               22
                   Sustainability..............................................................................................
                             . . .                                                                                                             23
                   Bank Performance......................................................................................                      23
                   Borrower Performance...............................................................................                         24

This reportwas preparedby HowardWhite. who assessedthe projectinAugust 2004. withinputsprovided
by EdoardoMasset andHughWaddington.The reportwas editedby William Hurlbut. and Soon-WonPak
providedadministrative support         .

                                                               iv


6 Findings and Lessons
.                                 .................................................................................................  24

References.........................................................................................................................  26

Annex A .BasicData         Sheet     ..............................................................................................  27

                                                  V



PrincipalRatings
                                ICR*                  ICR Review*                    PPAR
Outcome                     Satisfactory               Satisfactory         ModeratelyUnsatisfactory
Sustainability                 Likely                     Likely                      Likely
Institutional                  Modest                    Modest                     Modest
Development Impact
Bank Performance            Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower                    Satisfactory               Satisfactory               satisfactory
Performance

* The ImplementationCompletionReport(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperational divisionof
the Bank.The ICR Review is an intermediateOED productthat seeksto independentlyverify the findings of
the ICR.


Key StaffResponsible
Project                       Task ManagedLeader            Division Chief/      Country Director
                                                           Sector Director
 Appraisal                         S. I.Sudhaka             BarbaraHerz            Paul lsenman
 Completion                      Meera Chatterjee/          Anabela Abreu        FrederickThomas
                                MicheleGargnolati                                      Temple


                                          vii


Preface

This project performance audit report (PPAR) covers the Bangladesh IntegratedNutrition
Project (BINP, Credit 2735-BD). The US$67.4 million project was financed by a credit
o f US$59.8'millionapproved inMay 1995. The project closed with disbursementso f
US$51.6 million inDecember 2002.

The PPAR was prepared by the Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED), basedupon
the Implementation CompletionReports (ICR), project documents, and interviewswith
government officials and Bank staffwith experience o f the projects. It also draws on the
OED impact study Maintaining Momentum toward the MDGs? An Impact Evaluation of
Interventions to Improve Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Outcomes in
Bangladesh, includingthe fieldwork for that study, which took place inNovember 2003
and August 2004. The assistanceo f those who met with the study team i s gratefully
acknowledged.

Following standard OED procedures, the draft o f this PPAR was sent to the borrower for
comments before finalization, but none were received.


                                               i x


 Summary

 TheBangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BINP) was initiated inresponse to the very
 highlevelofmalnutritionprevalent inthe country andthe fact that activities explicitly
 focused onnutritionhadbeen relatively neglected byboth govemment and extemal
 agencies. The proposed design drew heavily on the Tamil Nadu IntegratedNutrition
 Project (TINP) inIndia, at the heart o fwhich was nutritional counseling to change
 behavior. The govemment was initially resistant to the project. The Bank adopted both an
 advocacy approach and adapted the program design to win govemment acceptance. The
 main changeswere the scaling down o f the project from 70 to 40 thanas, phased inover
 time with the intention o f learningfrom experience inthe earlier thanas, but assurances
were also givenbythe Bankthat the community-level workers would not becomepart o f
the government service.

 Theproject's long-term goal o freducingmalnutrition inBangladesh to the extent that it
 ceasedto be a public healthproblemwas to be reached through three intermediate
 objectives:

    (a) to improve the capacity o f national level nutrition institutions inBangladesh inthe
         areas o f advocacy, analysis o f causation and consequenceso f malnutrition, policy
        advice, operational research, andoperational support o fnationalprograms;
    (b) to improve the capacity o fcommunities, households andindividuals inthe project
        areato understand their nutritional problems inpractical terms andtake
        appropriate action to address them at their own level; and
    (c) to improve the nutritional status o f the populationinthe project area, with
        particular emphasis onpregnant and lactatingwomen and on children.

To achieve these objectives, the project had three components:

    0   National nutrition activities (US$l9 million, 32 percent o f the total), including
        institutionbuilding, operational research, and monitoring and evaluation.
    0   Community-Based Nutrition Component (US$32.6 million, 56 percent), which
        usedgrowthmonitoring as a framework for nutritionalcounseling and targeted
        supplementary feeding for childrenaged under 24 months, and for pregnant
        women.
    0   Inter-sectoral nutrition activities (US$7 million, 12percent), programs from other
        sectors to improve nutrition, such as home gardens andpoultry keeping.

Implementationbegan slowly; service delivery at the community level was delayed by
one year. However, once it began, impressiveparticipationlevels were achieved, and the
monitoring system showed large reductions insevere malnutrition. But evidence from the
midterm evaluation and, even more so the endline study, showed the project to behaving
less impact than hadbeen thought; an impact that was certainly well below target levels.
Pregnancy weight gain met the project target, but this was also achieved inthe control
areas, so that only a small gain canbe attributed to the project, and too little to make a
large difference to the prevalence o f low birthweight, which fell by less than targeted.
Outcome data were not collectedon anemia and Vitamin A and iodine disorders, though
use o fmineral supplementsdid increase inthe project area. The Community-Based

                                                X



Nutrition Component (CBNC) thus had some success inimplementation but failed to
achieve its objectives interms o fnutritional outcomes.

The other two components sufferedfrom implementationproblems, thus compromising
the achievement o fproject objectives. The inter-sectoral component only financed two
activities, when more hadbeenplanned, and had limitedcoverage andpoor targeting.
These activities had limitedimpact onnutritional outcomes. At the national level,
information, education, and communication(IEC) materials were not developed as
planned. Capacitybuildingwas mixed: whilst there were positive aspects, key institutions
were missed.A good monitoring and evaluation system was put inplace for the CBNC,
though its use for program decisions has beenlimited.

The three objectives were all highlyrelevant, but project efficacy and efficiency were
modest. Capacity creationat the national level was modest and limitedin scope. Capacity
buildingat the community level inproject areas was substantial, butwith modest
efficiency, since the project's infrastructure hasprovedquite costly. Nutritional
knowledge has improved inproject areas, but there has beena frequent failure to apply
such knowledge inpractice. The impact o f the project on nutritional status has been
limited. Hence, project outcome i s rated as moderatelyunsatisfactory overall.

Onbalance institutional development hasbeenmodest. It has beengreatest at the
community level, where committees have beenestablished and community workers
trained, but far less at the national level, with key institutions ignoredby the project.
Given the creationof capacity at both nationaland local levels, sustainability is rated as
likely, though concerns are raised regarding financing.

The limited impact o fBINPraises serious doubts as to the proposedjustification for
scaling the project up to the national level, which has already begun. To do so will prove
very costly, with limited nutritional gain. However, several lessons for possible future
Bankassistanceemerge from this assessment:

    0   Supplementary feeding for childrendoes improve nutritional status, especially for
        the most malnourishedchildren.

    0   Supplementary feeding for pregnantwomen appears an ineffective approach on
        two grounds: the pregnancy weight gain achieved i s mostly too small to have a
        notable impact on birthweight, though there are important exceptions amongst
        sub-groups o fwomen for which a substantial impact i s found. The programmight
        have beenmore successful ifi t hadrestricted its attention to the most
        malnourishedo f women, improving targeting to reduce Type I1error, and ifit
        triedharderto discourage leakage andsubstitution.

    0   For bothtypes o f feeding program, there i s evidence o f a greater impact inthe
        lean season. There are grounds for consideringeither increasingthe size o f the
        food supplementinthis period, restricting it to those months, or adjustingthe
        eligibility criteriabytime of year.

    0   Discouragingwomen from "eating down" (Le., less) duringpregnancy has some
        benefit for birthweight. But all forms o fknowledge transmittedby the project
        suffer from a knowledge-practice gap (ie., not puttingknowledge into practice,

                                     xi


though uptake o f better practices has increased inproject areas). Such gaps are
common and have multiple causes. However, paying attention to the causes o f the
gap can help enhance project effectiveness.



                                                               Ajay Chhibber
                                                          Acting Director-General
                                                           Operations Evaluation


                                                 1


 1.       Background

 NutritioninBangladesh

 1.       Inthe 1980s,malnutritionlevelsinSouthAsiawerethehighestintheworldand
those inBangladesh were the worst inthe region. Stunting affected two-thirds of
Bangladeshi children under five inthe early 1980s, a higherproportionthan inbothIndia
 andPakistan, and far higherthan inSri Lanka (Table 1). This gap hadwidened by the
 early 1990s, as there hadbeenvirtually no improvement inBangladesh, whereas
malnutritionrates were improving inthe other countries inthe region.

Table 1:Anthropometric Outcomes in SouthAsia (percentof childrenbelow -2
standarddeviationsfrom the referencemedian)

                          1975-79  1980-84    1985-89 1990-94    1995-99    2000-04
 Stunting (Height for age)
        Bangladesh                  67.7        67.5     64.4     53.9       44.7
        India              72.3                          58.4     44.9
        Sri Lanka          44.6     36.2       27.2      23.8     20.4
        Pakistan           67.0                57.9      42.9
Underweight (Weight for age)
        Bangladesh                  68.0       70.9      67.1     59.2       47.7
        India              71.3                          59.4     46.7
       Sri Lanka           54.3                37.3      37.7     32.9       33.0
       Pakistan
Source: World Bank, WorldDevelopment Indicators.

2.       This dismal trend inpart reflects a lack o fserious poIicy attention to nutrition.
The Bangladesh NationalNutritionProgramwas set up in 1975but carried out a limited
range o f activities. Policy interventions insupport o f nutritionpalled into insignificance
incomparisonwiththe substantial family planningprogrambeguninthe 1970s, and
compared to the success inraising immunization coverage during the 1980s. Itwas
against this backgroundthat the World Bank proposed the Bangladesh Integrated
Nutrition Project.

The World Bank and Nutrition

3.       The World Bankbegan its involvement innutrition inthe 1970sas a part o f the
new emphasis on basic needs. Three free-standing nutritionprojects were initiated inthat
decade: Brazil (1976), Colombia (1977), and Indonesia (1977). These projects included a
broadrange o f elements on a pilot basis -rural credit; nutrition education; information,
education, communication (IEC); food supplementation; child monitoring; school
feeding; micronutrientssupplementation; processing and marketing o f low-cost foods;
h i t andvegetable gardens; food storage; supplyo fpotablewater; andconstruction o f
healthposts. The projects gave mixed signals as to what worked and what didn't.

                                                       2


 4.       The Tamil Nadu IntegratedNutrition Project (TINP), India, begunin 1980,
 adopted a "medical" approach to malnutrition, relyingheavily on nutrition education (or
 counseling). Community healthworkers were employed to instruct women on how to
make betteruse o fthe existingresources. Foodwas seen as a "medicine" (Berg 1983)
provided at community healthcenters, where children are weighedinorder to detect
malnourishment. This approach mirrored developments inthe economic literature,
 including research at the World Bank, arguingthat income-based improvements in
nutrition would be inadequate, so there is a strong case for nutrition education. TINP has
been widely heldup as a success story, beingcalled one o f the "most successful
 [projects] inthe world inreducingmalnutrition."' An OED impact study o f TINP in 1994
 found that the project achieved unprecedented rates o f decline inmalnutrition inproject
 areas, most ofwhich was attributable to the project (World Bank, 1994). The Bangladesh
IntegratedNutrition Project was modeled on TINP.

Project Preparation

5.        The Bank's involvement inthe healthsector inBangladesh began in 1975 with
the First Population Project. As the name suggests, the focus was on family planning.
Subsequentprojects were extended to the broader health sector, butwith little attention to
nutrition.

6.        A sector studypublishedin1985highlightedthe depthofthe malnutrition
problem: "malnutrition is awidespread, persistent and apparently increasingproblem in
Bangladesh. Daily per capita caloric consumption has deteriorated significantly inthe last
two decades-from an estimated 2,301 in 1962-66 to an estimated 1,943 in 1981-82"
(World Bank 1985: i).         Giventhe later focus o fBINP on behavior change, it shouldbe
noted that the sector study argued that "the major determinants o f food consumption in
Bangladesh are household income and wealth. Malnutrition is, therefore, essentially a
poverty and rural employment generation problem" (ibid.: i).              Although the role o f
"deleterious food beliefs andpractices" are mentioned, nutrition education receives only
one paragraph inthe 54 pages o fthe mainreport, being subsumedunder healthpolicies,
which are secondary to the report's main focus on foodproduction and distribution.

7.        Ajoint Bank-UNICEF missionto take forwardthe nutritioninitiative took place
in1989, resultinginachapter onnutritionbeingincludedinthe country's FourthFive-
Year Planand a draft proposal beingprepared by the World Bank.2The proposal
document indicates that the Bangladesh project was to be based on the Tamil Nadu
Integrated NutritionProject; adopting the central focus onbehavior change. A second
element o fproject design, which evolved out o ftwo papers byworking groups under the
MinistryofHealthandFamilyWelfare (MOFHW),was the needfor amulti-sectoral
focus.




1. http://www.worldbank.org/ourdream/india-2.htm (accessed on 04/14/05).
2. The proposal i s outlined inthe InitialExecutive Project Summary (IEPS), a 2-3 page document which
describes the proposed objectives and main design features of the project.

                                                      3


8.         A missionto preparethe projectwas plannedfor the secondhalfo f 1992. A
backgroundnote for the preparation team indicatedthat the basic package shouldbebuilt
around three elements: growthmonitoring, targeted supplementaryfeeding, andnutrition
education to change behavior. The report o f the preparation mission, which took place in
September 1992, confirmedthis view. The importance o fthe other two determinants o f
nutrition - food security and health-was acknowledged. But it was argued that programs
were inplace to addressthese issues, whereas that was not the case for caring practices.
Moreover, it was argued that a substantial proportion o fthe problem o fpoor nutrition
among children under three couldbeprevented through appropriate care practices, even
inthe absenceo fimprovements infood security anddiseasecontrol. Thepreparation
mission confirmed that the project shouldhave an inter-sectoral component to finance co-
ordination activities with other ministries carrying out work important to nutrition, e g ,
MinistryofEducationto improvenutrition education for adolescent girls inschool and
MinistryofWomen's Affairs to enhancethe status o fwomen. Thesepriorities were
reflectedinthe revisedproposal o fFebruary 1993, which allocated US$54 million o f the
total budget o fUS$75 million (i.e., 72 percent) to the Community-BasedNutrition
Interventions component, and another US$l0 millionto Inter-Sectoral NutritionProgram
Development.

9.        As project preparation proceeded, misgivingsbeganto beexpressed byboth
government (especially the Ministryo f Finance) and other donors (notably USAID, but
also WHO, UNDP, andUKODA). The main area o f concem was the proposal to create a
new cadre o f community-level nutrition workers who would bepaid for their services. It
was felt that this practice might cause illfeeling among existing community-level
volunteers, who were unpaid, and be financially unsustainable once government had to
assume responsibility for these payments. Itwas proposed by government that a smaller
pilot might be more appropriate. The Britishraised evenmore fundamental concems as to
whether the proposed approach was the right one, andthat there was a need for a better
understanding o f malnutritioninBangladeshbefore designinga large-scale intervention.

10.       Bank staff undertook several activities to address these concems. A question-and-
answer document was prepared to be usedinsupport o fthe proposal; a video and series
o fpresentations was commissioned to makethe case for the project; and key government
officials were sent to visit nutrition projects inTamil Nadu andIndonesia. A program
called PROFILES, which projects the various benefits from nutritional interventions, was
presented to government officials at various levels to persuade themo fthe worth o f the
p r ~ j e c tIt~was argued by the Bank that the project's recurrent costs o f US$10 million a
             .
year were far less than the cost o f the government's existing nutritionprograms -though
this argument was disingenuous as existing programswere nationalwhereas the proposed
project would benefit less than 10percent o fthe country's children. Similarly, the
PROFILES projections promised addressing nutrition at the national level, although the
project itselfwas geographically limitedinscope. By early 1994, an internalBank memo
noted that acceptance o fthe project appeared to be growing. The Ministryo fFinance



3. Describing the experience, a staffmember from the organizationthat developed PROFILES, the
Academy for Educational Development, wrote that "World Bank officials said that the PROFILES
applicationplayed a vital part ingaining acceptance o f the [project]'' Burkhalter et al. (1999).

                                                           4


 withdrew its objections once the project was scaled down from the proposed 70 thanas4to
 40.5The community workers were not to bepart o f the government service, and the
 intention was that their cost should eventually be absorbedby the community.6Finally,
 rather than agreeing to a smaller pilot, the project was to be phased inover time, with
 continued expansion dependent on the results o f the midtermreview Insupport o f the
 proposalthe Bank also notedthat the project designwas not entirely novel, since an
 existingBRAC project inMuktagachahad an approach similar to BINP.

 11.        The Bank's appraisal report put forward stronger argumentsfor nutritional
 counseling: "behaviors relating to the feeding o f young childrenhave at least as much (if
 not more) to do with the serious problems o fmalnutrition inBangladesh as poverty and
 the resultant household food insecurity do., [Claring practices, culture-specific
                                                          ,
 consumptionpractices (particularly by women), intra-household food distribution, [and]
 personal hygiene constitute the most significant, hitherto un-addressed, set o f nutritional
 determinants inBangladesh" (SAR: 4-5).' N o substantial changeswere made to this
 design at the negotiations inMarch 1995. The main change was an increase inthe amount
 allocated to inter-sectoral projects from US$2.5 to $7.5 million.

 12.        Two observations can be made withrespect to project identification and
 preparation. First, Save the Children (2003) has argued that the Bank adopted a
 "blueprint approach," proposinga designbasedonthe Tamil Naduproject with little
 effort to adapt the project to local circumstances. There appear good reasons for
 accepting this critique. The Bank's sector work on nutrition inBangladeshpredated the
project by nearly a decade, and argued for a quite different approach to that adopted in
BINP.InternalWorldBank memosmentionedthat studies ofnutritionwouldbe carried
out before project design, and some studies were indeedcommissionedby UNICEF.
However, it i s not clear how these may have influencedproject design, since the basic
approach already decided uponwas retained, and it i s notable that other donors argued
that further analysis was needed.' Rather, the core features o fthe design- focused on
behavior change for caring practices -were identifiedearly on, with reference to the
growing body o f international evidence o fthe weak link from income growthto
nutritional improvement and the perceivedsuccess o fthe TamilNadu project. Second,


4. A thana i s an administrative unit at the sub-district level. Eachthana is further sub-divided into a small
numbero funions. There are 480 thanas inthe country as a whole.
5. Giventhis reduction, proposed Asian Development Bank cofmancing o f US$20 million (bringingthe
proposed total budget to U S 9 5 million) was no longer considered necessary.

6. But the position that these women should be paid was maintained. It was argued that existing volunteers
worked only 4-6 hours a week, whereas nutritioncounseling would be a full-time occupation, so that
payment was a necessary incentive, and would not cause resentment.
7. Additional data analysis was presentedto demonstrate the relative unimportance o f income factors in
nutrition inBangladesh: (1) that even children o f the top 20 percent suffered from poor nutrition, although
this i s to a lesser degree than that amongst lower quintiles, and (2) that nutritional status improved after 24
months.
8. The only explicit mention o f the UNICEF background studies i s an annex that lists background
documents inproject files, which includes as one document infiles a summary o f the UNICEFstudies. It is
o f course possible that the influence is not explicitly acknowledged. Since the document i s no longer inthe
project file, and could not be traced, it is not possible to make a closer examination.

                                                5


the Bank adopted a dual-prong strategy towardthe misgivingsthat were expressed
regardingthe project. One part of this strategy was advocacy to convince government and
donor officials that the project designwas appropriate. However, there was also
accommodationo f some o f these concerns, notably the scaling back of the project from
70 to 40 thanas.



2.      Project Objectives and Design

0bjectives

13.     The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) states that "the ultimate goal o fthe national
programwould be to reduce malnutrition inBangladeshto the extent that it ceases to be a
public healthproblem and improve the nutritional status o f its population, particularly
children under five, women and adolescent girls" (SAR: p.14, para 2.6). This goal was to
bereachedthrough three intermediate objectives:

    (a) to improve the capacity o fnational level nutritioninstitutions inBangladesh inthe
        areas of advocacy, analysis o fcausation and consequences of malnutrition, policy
        advice, operational research, and operational support o f nationalprograms;
    (b) to improve the capacity o fcommunities, households andindividuals inthe project
        area to understandtheir nutritional problems inpractical terms andtake
        appropriate action to address them at their own level; and
    (c) to improve the nutritional status o f the population inthe project area, with
        particular emphasis on pregnantand lactatingwomen andon children.

14.     The following quantitative targets were set for the project with respect to the
nutritional impact inthe areas coveredbythe Community BasedNutrition Component
(CNBC):

   0    Reduction o f severe malnutrition(weight for age) by 40 percent and moderate
        malnutritionby 25 percent, among under-two children
   0    Restorationo f the rate o f growth as measuredby monthly weight gain for at least
        50 percent o f childrenunder-two
   0    Reductiono f vitamin A and iodine deficiency disorders by 50 percent
   0    Reductiono f iron deficiency anemia by 33 percent among children and pregnant
        andlactatingwomen
   0   Reductiono f low-birth weight by 50 percent
   0   Improvement inmaternalweight gainby at least 50 percent inat least 50 percent
       of pregnant women.


Components

15.    Theproject hadthree components: (1) national-levelnutrition activities; (2)
community-based nutrition component (CBNC); and (3) an inter-sectoralnutrition
component.

                                                6


 National-Level Nutrition Activities (US$l9 million, 32percent of total)

 16.     The national-level component comprised the following four sub-components:

         Program development and institution building (US$2.7 million): This sub-
         component hadthe objective o f maintaining a strong political commitment and
         buildinginstitutional capacity for the successful implementation ofthe project.
         The activities consisted of areviewo f existingcapacity, the development o f
         nutritional experts, guidingresearch for the program, assessingthe role o fNGOs,
         and strengthening o f the Bangladesh National Nutrition Council.

         Information, Education, and Communication (IEC, US$4.4million): This sub-
         component was to develop the messages and materialto be`usedinboththe
         CBNC and separate national advocacy andmass media campaigns.

         Strengthening of existing nutrition activities (US$6.4 million): The project sought
         to improve the coverage and effectiveness o f existing nutritionprograms such as
         the control o fnutritional anemia, the breastfeedingprogram, the "Baby Friendly
         Hospital Initiative," andthe Vitamin A program.

         Project management, monitoring, and evaluation (US$S.5 million): Evaluation
         was to be based on three surveys (baseline, midterm at three years and endline at
         the end o f the project), with the baseline already beingfielded at the time the S A R
         was prepared (with UNICEFfinancing). There would be annual World Bank-
        UNICEF supervision meetings. Monitoring was to bebased on data generated at
        the thana level.

Community-Based Nutrition Component (US$32.6million, 56percent)

17.     The core o fthe project was the Community BasedNutrition Component (CBNC),
based on growth monitoring, food supplementation andnutritional counseling.
Nutritional counseling was the central part o fthis plan, with the other activities providing
a framework for such counseling.

18.     CommunityNutrition Promoters (CNPs) were to be recruitedineach community
(at a ratio o f one CNP for every 1,000 population insome areas and every 1,500 in
others). These were to be women with children and a minimum 8 years o f education. The
CNPs were responsible for implementation o fmost project activities at the community
level, incollaborationwith the Women's Group, and under the supervision o f the
CommunityNutrition Organizer (CNO, each o fwhom was responsible for 10 CNPs).
The work o fthe CNP was to be supported bythe Village Nutrition Management
Committee (VNMC).

19.     Theprogram adopted two different target audiences, the second o fwhich was a
pilot injust one o fthe initial six thanas. Under the approach used inthe majority o f
thanas, all children aged under two years were intendedto be coveredby monthly growth
monitoring, with feeding supplementation offered to severely malnourished andgrowth
faltering childrenunder two years (meetingcriteria based on weight-for-age charts) and          .

                                                         7


 malnourishedpregnant mothers (meetingcriteria basedon midarmcircumference). Under
 the experimental targeting strategy inone thana all newly marriedcouples inthe project
 area were to be provided a special package o fhealth andwelfare services.' IEC, with
 particularly strongnutritional counseling focusing on the period from pregnancy to two
 years after childbirth; preferentialtreatment at healthlfamily planning facilities with an
 emphasis on maternal andchild healthcare (MCH) and particular attentionto childhood
 infections, inclusion ina homestead gardening program; special provision to their
 householdinterms o f access to safe water supply and sanitary facilities; etc. The couples'
 first pregnancy was to get extra attention, including supplementary feeding o f the mother
 and/or the child ifthey meet nutritional criteria, full pre-, intra- andpostnatal care,
 breastfeeding promotion, complete immunization (for the mother and the child). The
 couples would leave the programwhen the first child reached two years old.

 20.     The programwas to be implementedintwo different ways. Some thanas were to
 be wholly contracted out to NGOs for the management and implementationo f all CBNC
 activities; ineach o fthese thanas, a selected NGO will take the full responsibilityfor all
 activities, including the recruitment and training o f the various field personnel;
 community mobilization; procurement, preparation, packaging, and delivery o f food
 supplements; payment o f salarieshonorariaand allowances; procurement o f equipment
 andsupplies; quality control; supervision andmonitoring; andIEC activities; they would
use the existing government systems for the provision o fprimaryhealth care services as
necessary and for inter-sectoral coordination. Inthe other thanas, the Government o f
Bangladesh (GOB) was to use its own management structure to runthe project activities;
NGO support was to beprovidedinthe following key areas: community mobilization,
training and technical supervision o f field personnel, logistics o fpreparing, packaging,
andsupplyingfood supplements, includingquality control.

Inter-Sectorat Nutrition Program Development (US$7million, 12percent)

21.      The objective o f this component was to promote activities, outside o f health and
familyplanning, which would have apositive healthimpact. Three sub-projects were
underconsideration: (1) homesteadvegetable production, (2) homestead poultry
production, and (3) study o f the impact o f agricultural programs. Ifany o f these were
found to be inappropriate, then alternative proposals were to be sought. A fund was
created (the Inter-Sectoral NutritionFund) to which NGOs and government departments
could apply with proposals for implementation inproject areas. These proposals should
re-orient existing activities to be more nutritionally relevant.


Geographic coverage

22.      Activities at the national levelwere institutionbuildingand IEC development,
includinguse o f nationwide media for IEC messages. The field-level activities o f the
CNBC were to cover 40 o fthe country's 480 thanas (about 8-9 percent o fthe

9. The evaluation data set covers the initial six thanas, but the evaluation study didnot consider the
question o f whether this approach had proved more effective. Evenhad it done so, since the different
approach was usedinjust one thana it would not be possible to separate the area effect from the design
effect.

                                                      8


population). These were to bephased in, beginningwith six thanas inthe first year, and
17 inthe third and fourth years. The project was to operate only inrural areas.

23.       The criteria for the selection o fthe project thanas were:

     0    At least one district per division
     0    About halfthe thanas would be included ineach chosen district
     0    A range o f distressed andnon-distressed thanas, but excludingthanas that are
          most disaster-prone or that lack basic healthinfrastructure
     0    Only thanas with 80 percent o f infants fully immunizedwere to be included.

24.       Nutritional status was not included among the criteria for thana selection. Indeed,
the last two selection criteria mighthave induced a bias toward areas where malnutrition
was less o f a problem. Table 2 uses DHS data to look at this question. The data are from
the secondround o f the DHS, collected in 1996/97, just before the project became
operational at the field level. The table shows the anthropometric status of children aged
6 to 24 months, that is, the BINPtarget group. Ineach casenutritional status is, on
average, significantly better inthe BINP thanas thanthe non-BINP ones, thus confirming
that there was a small bias infavor o fbetter off areas. These differences are all
significant at the one percent level.

25.       The decisionto exclude urbanareas might also be criticized. As Table 2 shows,
nutritional status inurbanareas is, on average, muchbetter than that inrural areas.
However, the urban average i s misleading, since intra-cluster variation innutritional
status i s much greater inurbanareas. Inslum areas malnutritionrates are very high,
easily rivaling those found inrural areas (see, for example, Rahmanet al., 2000).

Table 2: MeanAnthropometricOutcomes (for childrenaged6-24 months)inBINP
andNon-BINPAreas Priorto the Project

                                   Non-BINP      BINP mean         Urban areas
 Height for age                       -1.86        -1.54***             -1.56
                                      0.04            0.12              0.07
 Weight for age                      -2.02         -1.92***             -1.66
                                      0.03            0.14              0.06
 Weight for height                   -1.12         -1.25***             -0.90
                                      0.03           0.15               0.05
 No. of observations                 2512             534               566
 No. of clusters                      444              86                60
Note: figures in parentheses are standard errors. *** Indicates significant
difference from non-BINP mean at 1%level. Source: calculated from DHS data


DesignIssues

26.     Six observations may be made about the project design. First, the targets for
CNBC were very ambitious: the targets o f a 40 percent reduction insevere malnutrition
and 25 percent reduction inmoderate malnutritioninproject areas might be seen as

                                                       9


 unrealisticallyhigh, setting the project up to fail to achieve these goals.'O Certainly these
 targets are ambitious compared to that contained inthe MillenniumDevelopment Goals
 o fhalving malnutrition over a 25 year period. Onthe other hand, these figures are not
 dissimilar to the targets set for TINP, which came close to achievingthem (infact
 surpassing those for severe malnutrition).

 27.      Second, the designwas complex, not only because o f the combination o fnational
 andlocal activities withmultiple institutions, but also because o fthe large variations in
 designfeatures from thana to thana. Although the intentionwas to use the evaluationto
 see which worked best, since only the six thanas for the first phase were coveredby the
 evaluation, this was not possible. For example, marriedcouples counseling was tried in
just one thana, so the impact ofthis designfeature cannot be separatedfrom any "area
 effect" associated with that thana.

 28.      Third, BINPnutritional counseling activities targetedpregnantand lactating
 women and adolescent girls, with limited attention to the role o f other family members."
 However, inBangladesh decisions regarding health andnutrition do not rest solely with
 the mother, but also the husbandand frequently the mother-in-law. Hence, project design
 and implementationshould have sought to broaden the target audience for its nutritional
messages. This view was expressedbyBINP fieldworkers andwomen themselves in
project areas during field visits.

29.      Fourth, the criteria usedto admit childreninto the supplementary feeding program
were not sufficiently targeted to the neediest children. Dual criteria were applied:
children were to be admittedifthey were either severely malnourishedor they were
growth faltering'* (whatever their nutritional level). But growth faltering is quite normal,
so enrolling growth faltering children regardless o f their nutritional level will mean
enrolling perfectly well-nourished children.l3OED analysis o f the Save the Children
register data show that over 40 percent of those enrolled inthe feeding program were not
malnourished(i.e., the children were above -2 SDs WAZ). At the same time, a very low
threshold was set for malnourished children (e-4 SDs), which is such an extreme level of
malnourishment that there are few living children with such values; only 5 percent o f
programparticipants qualifiedby virtue o f their level o fmalnourishment. The implication

10. Save the Children (2003) alleges that the claims about the project's potential impact were exaggerated
inorder tokeepthe governmentinterested. Thispointcanbemadeattwo levels. The first isthat the
appraisal document talks about a long-term or ultimate goal o f ensuring that malnutritioni s no longer a
problem, although the specific objectives are more carefully worded to be clear than they only apply to the
project areas. As noted inparagraph 10 above there does appear to have been some over-selling ofthe
project. Second the specific targets set for CBNC may have beentoo ambitious, though as noted inthe text,
they were basedon what TI"      had actually achieved.
11.Inaddition to the adolescent girls' forum(discussion group ledbythe CNP), there is a marriedcouples'
forum. However, during fieldwork, only wives were found to be present at the latter. The S A R mentions
mothers-in-law once and husbands once (compared to 35 references to mothers).
12. Growth faltering does not mean zero growth, but growth at a lower rate than that inthe reference
population.
13. One study found that 37 percent o f a group o f U.S. children from well o f f backgrounds would qualify
for supplementary feeding under the criteria used inthe Tamil NaduIntegratedNutrition Project (Martorell
and Shekar 1992).

                                               10


 i s clearly that a lower bar could be used(say -2.5 SDs) while not admitting children who
 are growth faltering but not malnourished. The screening criteria under the follow-on
 National Nutrition Project (NNP)have been changed fiom those usedunder BINP to be
 closer to the suggestion made here.

 30.      Fifth,eventhoughthe supplementary feedingwas offeredprimarily as a
 demonstration o f the benefits o fbetter nutrition, the protocols called for three months'
 feeding o fthose identifiedas malnourished, leadingto the conclusionthat defacto this
was a feeding program for the most malnourishedchildren. The feeding provided was the
 same special supplement throughout the feedingprogram, which does not demonstrate
the importance o f a varied diet.

 31,     A final, minor, point is the poor wording ofthe target "improvement inmaternal
weight by at least 50% inat least 50% o fwomen." The literal readingo f this target i s that
o f a given group o fpregnant women, at the end o f the project halfo f them will have a 50
percent greater pregnancy weight gain than they did at the start. But the same group o f
women will not be pregnant at the end o f the project as at the beginning. Evenifthe
target is applying to different cohorts o fpregnant women, which 50 percent should be 50
percent better off! The endline evaluation reworded this target to be "increase inmaternal
weight gain to 7 kgin50% ofwomen," which i s easy to understand, but there i s no
information on what percentage o fwomen attained that pregnancy weight gain before the
project.



3.       Implementation

Overview

32.      Implementation got off to a slow start: inthe first two years, disbursements were
around 20 percent o f the planned amount (Figure 1). The project became effective inJuly
1995. A t the time o f first supervision mission ninemonths later (March 1996), field-level
activities had not yet begun.Key constraints were the completion o fthe Project
Implementation Volume, concluding agreements with the NGO selected to implement the
project (BRAC), and completing staffing o f the project office. However, there had also
beenprogress. BRAC hadbeenselected to implementthe project inthree of the initial six
thanas, with government taking responsibility for the other three. Moreover, BRAC had
taken steps toward putting the program inplace prior to a formal agreement being
reached.

33.      After initial delays, CNBC was implementedas planned. Project status reports
soon beganto record good progress inenrolling children ingrowth monitoring, and fiom
1999 reduction insevere malnutrition. The project was eventually extended to 59 thanas
rather than the 40 agreed at appraisal. However, disbursement delays were only
eliminated toward the end o f the project: inFYOO, one year before the planned close o f
the project, actual disbursementswere onlyjust over halfthe planned amount.

                                                  11


 Figure1 :BINP Disbursement Profile



       60

     s 50

    E 40

    3
    `E
    3  30
       20

       10

         0


                              --.-
                                 Planned   -Actual1

 34.     Manyother project components didnot go according to plan: only two inter-
 sectoral project components were implemented, IEC materials were not developed at the
 national level, andthere was little attention paidto some national-level institutions such
 as the BangladeshNutrition Council. Some components were implemented, most notably
 the monitoring and evaluationsystem, a review o fnutrition-relatedinstitutions and a
program of operations research.

 35.     Despitethe failure to complete some sub-components andthe expansiono f
 coverage o f CBNC, the component-wise breakdown o f costs didnot change much (Table
 3). Rather, funds unspent on some nationalnutrition components were absorbed
 elsewhere inthat component; for example, expenditureon office costs was seven times
the amount planned, these increases indecision partly arising from government's
decision to impose VAT onNGOs inthe project.

Table 3: ProjectCosts by Component,US$millions

                                           Appraisal estimate     Actual estimate Percentage of
                                               (USSmillion)         (USSmillion)   appraisal
NationalNutritionActivities                       19.0                  I8.4           99
Community Based NutritionComponent                32.6                  32.3           99
Inter-sectoralNutrition Program                    7.0                   6.5           93
Total'                                            67.3                  65.7           98
Note: I/ Totalincludescontingencies(not shown). Source: ICR Annex 2.


Inter-SectoralNutritionProgramDevelopment

36.      The inter-sectoral programwent ahead as plannedwith the promotion of gardens
andpoultry keeping. A thirdplannedcomponent was not implementedowingto a lack of
interest by the parent ministry.Other activities were also to be identified, but none were.
The component was weakly managed at the center, andreceivedlittle attentionduring

                                                 12


 supervision; the relevant indicators for this component were not reported inthe project
 status reports.

 37.     At field level, theseprograms were implemented bydifferent NGOs than those
 responsible for the CBNC inthe same communities, resulting ina lack o f co-ordination.
 The women that benefitedfrom the inter-sectoral programs were not those identifiedas
 beinginneed under CBNC, with the result that a majoritywere not from the target group
 (64 percent for gardens and 56 percent for poultry).

 NationalNutrition Component

 38.     Implementation o fthe nationalnutrition component was mixed, with monitoring
 and evaluation beingthe most satisfactory. The main sub-components are reviewed in
 turn.

 39.     Review ofMajor Nutrition Institutions: The review o fmajor nutritioninstitutions
 was completed only with considerable delay. Therehas been only slow, and incomplete,
 follow-up to the review, with some important institutions (e.g,. BangladeshNational
 Nutrition Council) have received very little attention from the project. However, some
 other agencies have benefited from technical assistance, e.g., BangladeshBreastfeeding
 Foundationand HelenKeller International.

 40.     Operational Research: Eighteenoperational research studies were contracted from
 the International Centre for DiarrhoealDiseasesResearch(ICDDR,B). There i s no
 evidence that these were usedto influence the implementation o fBINP.The ICR says
 that no strategy for such influence was developed, but does state that lessons from the
 research were usedinthe design o f the follow-on NNP.Having said that, current Bank
 nutrition staff do not appear familiar with the contents o f this research.

 41,    Development o f IEC Materials: Central production o f IEC materials was not
 carried out under the project as a result o f the Bank declaring mis-procurement on the
IEC contract (the Bankhad given no objection, but the selected agency was not awarded
the contract).

42.     Monitorina and Evaluation: a well-functioning monitoring system was put in
place for CBNC and was soon beingreliedupon insupervisionreports. Indeed, it was the
positive feedback being given from the monitoring systems -notably the highcoverage
rates and apparent large reductioninsevere malnutrition-that resulted inthe positive
early assessments o fthe project. Subsequent evaluation data suggested that the
monitoring data exaggeratedthe project benefits, but not to an unusual extent. Monitoring
o f other components o f BINPdoes not appear to have beencarried out ina systematic
way.

43.     The project evaluationwas also o fhighquality. Bank and project staff ensured
that a well-designed evaluation system was put inplace, conducting three surveys
(baseline prior to the project, financed by UNICEF, midtenn and endline), resultinginan
impact study after the close o f the project. National andinternational experts were
involved inthe designo f the evaluation and incommenting on findings as they emerged.

                                                   13


The project-financed evaluation ofBINP canbepointedto as bestpractice. The
 identifiable shortcomings should be seen as caveats on this very positive assessment: (1)
different companies conducted differentrounds ofthe survey, resultinginchanges in
 design and so problems o f comparability; (2) the control group, especially inthe baseline
 survey, was too small; (3) nutritional outcome measureswere restricted to anthropometric
measurement, so that the evaluation sheds no light on some project objectives (such as
Vitamin A disorders); and (4) outcome data were not collectedon children over two (the
rationalewas to collect data only from the target group, but there should have been some
 lasting impact onthose who had graduated). Inaddition, the evaluation focused on the
 CBNC component. This was indeedthe largest and most important part o f the project;
but some formal analysis ofother componentswould have beenuseful.

44.      The final comment on monitoring and evaluation concems two timingissues.
First, giventhe government's reservations, it was agreedthat scaling up would take place
inthe secondphase incorporatinglessonslearnedfrom the first phase, andafter the
midtermevaluation for the thirdphase. Since there were delays inproject start-up there
was only one year, rather than the planned two, between initiation o f the first and second
phases. The thirdphase commenced inMarch 1999, the same month as the publicationo f
the final draft o fthe midterm evaluation report. It does not appear that the decision to
continue into the thirdphase was explicitly linked to the positive assessmentwhich
emerges from the midterm review, but by that time very positive assessmentsof project
performance were beingmade on the basis o fmonitoring data. These positive
assessments also lay behindthe decision to scale up to the nationallevel, starting
preparationo f the follow on NationalNutritionProject (NNP), evenbefore to the results
o f the midtermstudy - let alone the endo fproject impact study (which was delayed
owing to contractual problems), as hadbeen the intention.

Community-BasedNutritionC~mponent'~

45.      Because o f the initial delays inproject implementation, the project became
effective inthe first-phase six thanas only inNovember 1996. Work was begun inthe
second-phase 17 thanas one year later on November 1997 and another 17 inMarch 1999,
bringingthe total to planned40 thanas. A hrther 19thanas were added inJanuary 2000.
So, byproject close, BINP was active in59 thanas. As discussed elsewhere inthis report,
plans to scale up on the basis o f evaluation results appear to have not been adhered to.

46.      Proiect Coverage and Targeting: Ideally, all children inthe project area were to
participate ingrowth monitoring. The target set inthe project appraisal document was
that 80 percent of 0-24 month old children should beregistered, and 80 percent o f these
(i.e., 64 percent o f all children) receive at least 18 out o f 24 monthly weighings. The
evaluationdata show that over 90 percent o f children were weighed at least sometimes,
with 88 percentbeingweighed on aregular basis. Hence, the project's coverage targets
for participationingrowth monitoringwere met. Factors behindnon-participation include



14. This section, andthat onnutritionaloutcomes below, is basedonthe OED impactstudy (World Bank
2005: Chapter 5 andAnnex G),where more details canbe found.

                                                         14


 remoteness and traditional constraints on women's mobility which operate inthe more
 conservative areas.

 47.      These highparticipation rates are an impressiveachievement. Field and Bank
 staff say that there was an initial reluctance to have childrenweighed, or to allow women
 to attend growth monitoring or counseling sessions. Therewere also misgivings as to
 whether the CNPs, as relatively young women, couldwield much authority inchanging
 social norms. While these constraints continueto operate insome places, the overall
 participationlevels show that they have mostly beensuccessfully overcome. The support
 o f the Village NutritionManagement Committee (VNMC) i s one factor inthis success:
 where local influential figuresput their weight behindthe work o f the CNP (which may
 extendto the use o f the verandah o ftheir house for weighing and counseling sessions),
 her positionbecomes easier.

 48.      Low growth, identifiedby growth monitoring, was to be addressed intwo ways:
 nutritional counseling and supplementary feeding. The feeding is said to have been
 intendedas an example to mothers, the heart o fthe strategy beingcounselingto achieve
 behavior change. The growthmonitoring sessions themselves are too chaotic a setting to
providenutritional counseling. The CNps work full time intheir position andprovide
 advice through different forums, such as the various group counseling sessions or one-to-
 one meetings with parents. However, datapresented inthe OED impact study show that
 over one-third o fwomen whose childrenwere receivingsupplementary feeding saidthat
they hadneither discussed nutrition directly with the CNP, nor sat inany meeting where
itwas beingdiscussed.

49.       Supplementary feeding also didnot reach those intended.Analysis o f register and
field data shows there was a reasonably low Type I1error: only 16percent o f children
receiving food supplementation should not havebeenreceiving it.'' But Type Ierror was
very high:over two-thirds (69.8 percent) o f eligible childrenwere not being fed. One
reason for this higherror rate is the difficulty CNps have ininterpretingthe growth
charts.l6

50.       Tumingto monitoringo fpregnancy weight gain, close to three-quarters o f
pregnantwomen attendedweighingsessions, andjust underhalfreceivedsupplementary
feeding, withboth these percentages beinga bit lower at endline than the baseline. OED's
analysis shows there i s no pattembetween attendance at weighing sessions andthe
mother's nutritional status, which is to be expected. Supplementary food was meant to be
receivedby women with low Body Mass Index. However, by the endline about 60


15. Type I1error i s the proportion o f those receiving the feeding who are not eligible. Type Ierror is the
proportion o fthose eligible who do not receive the benefit.
16. TenCNPs were administereda test as part o f OED fieldwork. The test consisted o f four hypothetical child
growth patterns drawn on the growth charts usedby the project. These patterns were taken from a figure from
the World Bank Nutrition Toolkit (Chapter 3, page 20), and illustrate different cases: adequate growth, early
growth faltering, prolonged growth faltering, and severe growth faltering. The CNPs were asked to interpret
the child growth as good, dangerous, or very dangerous. None o fthe CNPs was able to correctly identify the
case of adequategrowth. Most charts were interpreted as "dangerous" cases. A few charts were described as
"very dangerous," but not always corresponding to the "severe growth faltering" case.

                                                      15


 percent o f eligible women were not receiving the supplement. Onthe other hand, 40
 percent o f those who were receivingthe supplement were not eligible.

 5 1.     For both children andmothers, the OED analysis finds evidence o fboth leakage
 and substitution o f the food supplement. For example, 32 percent o fwomen saidthey had
 shared their food supplementwith someone else. Many o fthose who were not sharing
 said they didnot eat more duringpregnancy than usual, indicating that the BINP
 provided food was substitutingfor other foodstuffs. This was possible, since at least half
 the women and one-quarter o fthe children, contrary to project design, consumedthe food
 at home rather than at feeding sessions.

 52.      Insummary, enrollmentingrowthmonitoringsessionshasbeenat ahighlevel for
both childrenand pregnant women. However, attendance at these sessions has not
providedopportunities for nutritional counseling for a sizeable minority o f women. There
have beenproblems inthe targeting o f feedingprograms, especiallythe exclusion o f
 eligibleparticipants for both childrenandpregnantwomen. Inthe case o fpregnant
women, a considerable number o f feedingbeneficiaries are infact ineligible. Such Type
I1error is less o faproblemfor child feeding, thoughthe entrycriteriathemselves appear
inappropriate, and only a minority o f enrolled children complete the full three months o f
feeding.

Scaling-upto the NationalNutritionProject

53,      Following a visit by the Bank's president inmid-1998 the Bank decided to follow
upwith a scaled-up, nationalproject, before a thorough evaluationo fBNIP could be
carried out.

54.       One aspect o f thepreparationandtransition from BINPto the NationalNutrition
Project (NNP) i s o frelevance for BINPperformance. NNP was to encompass the thanas
already operating under BINP, though the contracts were to be re-tendered so that the
implementingNGO might change. However, the Bankwas dissatisfiedwith the selection
process for NGO implementing agencies, and this dissatisfaction delayed the start o f
NNP.BINPwas extended to cover this gap, but inthe endthere remained a seven-month
gap between the closing o f BINP andthe start o f"P.Where the implementing NGO
changed, the actual gap to the resumption o f operations at field level was longer.

55.      This gap had adverse implications. TheNGOs continued to pay their own staff,
but CNPswere told they could continue to provide counseling on a voluntary basis only
and there was no supplementaryfeeding. Data from the monitoring system showed the
impact o f this breakthrough a dramatic fall inbreastfeeding rates." Impressionistic
evidence from the field i s that inmany areas new CNPs had to be recruited as the old one
would not return. The gap was clearly damaging and would have best been avoided. At
the same time, the Bank should not be expected to concede on all points inorder to avoid
such an occurrence. Onthe other hand, a further extension o fBINPmight have been
considered inorder to continue money flowing to those thanas.

17. This figure fromthe monitoringdata contrastswith that from evaluationdata, which show low rates of
breastfeeding.However, the latter refers to exclusive breastfeeding.

                                                 16


 56.     This discussion should not betaken to meanthat there has beenno learning from
the BINP experience. As mentioned above, the targeting criteria for supplementary
 feeding for childrenhave beenrevisedandthe inter-sectoral component is now more
closely coordinatedwith the CBNC. AndNNP i s said to be making renewed efforts to+
reach family members other than mothers.



4.       Outputs and Outcomesby Objective

Objective1:Institutionbuildingat nationallevel

57.      As described above, implementationofthis component was uneven. Important
institutions, notably the Bangladesh NationalNutrition Council, were little involved in
theproject so that no institutionbuildingtook place. Whilst operational researchtook
place it didnot influence project design or more general nationalpolicy on nutrition.

58.      Onthe positive side, the project established the BI" project office, which has
evolved into that for the NationalNutrition Programwith ambitions to be a directorate o f
the Ministryo fHealthandFamilyWelfare. It is claimedby many associatedwith the
project that it established nutrition on the nationalpolicy agenda, though staff o fNGOs
not associated with the project are skeptical o f such claims.

Objective2: Improvecapacityof communitiesto understandtheir nutritional
problemsand take actionsto addressthem

59.      The mainchannel for improving nutritional knowledgewas the CBNC, which i s
the focus ofthe discussion inthis report. Theplanneddevelopment ofIECmaterials at
the national level didnot take place, so that potential channel was lost.

60.      Creationo f capacitv: BINP successfblly created a nutrition-oriented structure at
the community-level, notablythe Village NutritionManagement Committees and the
recruitmento f the CNP. The CNP operated discussion sessions for targeted women and
adolescent girls, and liaisedwith women's groups which would also sometimes take up
nutrition issues. At the national level some credit the project with having placednutrition
on the development agenda.

61.      Acquiring knowledge at household and individual level: The central thrust o f
project design was to change nutritional behavior o f child caretakers. There are a number
o fnutritionalpractices considered adverse to child nutrition. Some are simple differences
inhabit, such as cuttingvegetables before washingthemratherthanvice versa,which is
nutritionallydisadvantageous. Others, such as eating less duringpregnancy ("eating
down"), result from different perceptions o fhealthrisks and benefits (mothers perceive
the benefit o f a lower-risk delivery o f a smaller child, discounting the risks to low birth
weight children).18And others stem from traditionalbeliefs which appear to have no


     ~




18. Eating down was recommended medical practice inEuropeancountries for this reason untilthe 1940s.

                                              17


plausible health-related rationale, such as avoiding meat, fish, and eggs during
pregnancy.

62.     Multivariate analysis shows that attending nutritional counseling indeed has a
significant association with a woman's knowledge o fvarious pieces o f nutritional
information, such as the importance o f exclusive breastfeeding, thoughbeing inreceipt o f
supplementary feeding does not. However, even when these participationvariables are
included inthe regression equation, the BINFproject dummy i s still significant: women
inproject areashavesignificantly highernutritionalknowledgethanthose inthe control.
This means either that there are spillover effects (women who get the knowledge in
nutrition sessions communicate it to others) or that other project activities not captured in
the participation variables, e.g., women's group meetings, are also channels for
communicationo fnutrition education. According to these regressionresults, simply
living intheproject arearaises a woman's probabilityo fhaving apiece o fnutrition
knowledge by 7 percent, but full participationinproject activities increases this
probability bybetween 10-23 percent.

63.     Tuminnknowledge into practice: the knowledaepracticegap: Although the
project has had success inpromotingnutritional information, women do not put into
practice things they say they agree with. This gap exists for every practice. For example,
94 percent o fwomen inproject areas say they know they should not undertakehardwork
duringpregnancy, butonly 53 percent follow this advice. The gap exists inbothproject
andcontrol areas, with little evidence that the gap is any less inproject areas thancontrol.
Since the project has improvedknowledge it has also improvedpractice. Nonetheless,
tackling some o fthe multiplefactors underlying the gap would help improve project
effectiveness.

64.     OED's multivariateregression analysis andthe results o fqualitative fieldwork
commissioned by OED identifya common set o f factors which explain the knowledge-
practice gap. Resource and time constraints are foremost among these, although the
influenceo f other decision makers (notably mothers-in-law) also plays a role. Women
who have work to do, including children and elderly relatives to care for, are less likely to
be able to rest or avoid hardwork duringpregnancy (Table 4). Women engaged in
agricultural work may also not have time to breastfeed, or not able to do so ifthey are
with the child away from the home. Although theprojecthas some effect inreducingthe
gap, the multivariateanalysis shows the magnitude o fthis effect to be very small. There
are other channels - such as increasing education o fbothmales and females -that will
also close the gap.

                                                                               18


Table 4: Many FactorsPreventWomen from PuttingNutritionalAdvice into
Practice, Though the ProjectPartially OvercomesSome of These

Knowledge                         Main determinants                                   Project               Moderatingproject impacts
                                                                                      effect
Rest during                       Agricultural work, children, elderly                None                  None
pregnancy                         male in household, poverty
Feeding colostrum to              More children reduces gap                           None                  None
the baby*
Breastfeeding                     Agricultural work                                   None                  Reduces effect of living with
(exclusive and/or                                                                                           mother-in-law and being poor
duration)
More food during                  Poverty, children, having a                         Reduces               Bigger effect in working season
pregnancy                        vegetable garden reduces the gap                     gap
Avoid hard work                  Children, agricultural work (including               Reduces               Reduction of gap bigger for poor
during pregnancy                 vegetable garden), but lower for                     gap                   (who have a larger gap than the
                                 female headed households and                                               non-poor), but smaller reduction in
                                 women not in paid employment                                               working season.
Note: * Colusbum is the fust milk produced by the mother inthe early days of breastfeeding. It is low involume but high inconcentratednunition for the
newbom

 Thesame results are found from OED analysis of both the Save the Children and the BlNP data.

65.         Insummary, the project was associated with anincrease inknowledge about
nutritional practices and with increased take up o f good practices. However, there is a gap
between knowledge and practice, and the project does not have an impact inreducing the
size o f the gap. But since knowledge is more widespread, and the gap the same inproject
andcontrol areas, then the promoted practices are morewidespread inthe project area.
So, are these practices beneficial to nutritional outcomes?


Box 1 Studies of BINP Impact

0     The project evaluation was contracted out to a team o f staff from the Institute o f Nutrition
      and Food Science at the University o f Dhaka and the Friedman School o f Nutrition Science
      and Policy from Tufts University. The Endline Evaluation (Karim et al., 2003) analyzes all
      three BINP surveys (baseline, midterm and endline) for project and control communities at
     all levels o f the causal chain.

0     Save the Children conducted a survey o f BINP areas and control published inthe report Thin
     on the Ground (Save the Children, 2003).
     The Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Department (NED) o f the Ministry of
     Planning commissioned a study by READ and Associates, for which a survey o f BINP thanas
     from all three phases o f the project, with control thanas, was undertaken. The findings are
     publishedinHaider et al. (2004).

0    Two PhD doctoral students from Cambridge University have analyzed register data from
     BINP. The results reported here are from a summary presentation by the supervisor o f the
     PhDs, Professor Mascie-Taylor.

0    OED re-analyzedthe project evaluation data, together with that of Save the Children. For the
     former, the quality o f the control was improved by usingpropensity score matching drawing
     on data from the Nutritional Surveillance Project o f Helen Keller International

                                               19


Objective 3: Improvenutritionaloutcomes inprojectareas

66.      There havebeena number o f studies of the impact o f the CBNC: the project
endline evaluation (Karimet al.), the surveyundertakenby Save the Children, two recent
PhDs at the Universityo f Cambridge, a report bythe ImplementationMonitoringand
EvaluationDepartment (IMED,Haider et al., 2004) and OED's own re-analysis o f these
various data sets, combined with data from the Nutritional Surveillance Project as a
control group (see Box 1). Table 5 summarizes the results from each o fthese with respect
to each target:

    0    Reducechildmalnutrition:Onlythe project evaluation finds a notable impact,
         andthat is only for severe malnutrition at midtenn(withmoderate malnutrition
         having risen); Save the Children and IMEDfindno difference betweenproject
         andcontrol, andthe OED study found significant, but very small, improvements.
         The target was not achieved.

    0    Restorationof rateof growth: Three studies consider this goalwith respect to
         children enrolled insupplementary feeding-the Cambridge study finds no
        impact, Save the Children a significantbut small impact, and OED an impact only
         for severely malnourishedchildren. The target was not achieved.

    0   Reducemicronutrient-relateddisorders:N o outcome data were collectedby
        any o fthe studies for the targets onvitamin A andiodine disorder andreduction
        on anemia. Though data were collected on mothers taking the appropriatepills,
        these figures were substantially betterinthe project area than the control.

    0   Reductionoflow birthweight: The project evaluation reportsa 38% reduction
        inlowbirthweight, comparedto the target o f50%. The OED study finds a
        reduction, but with a similar reduction incontrol areas, so there i s no project
        effect. The target was not met.

    0   Improvementin maternalweight gain: The Cambridgestudy (see Box 1) finds
        a small effect for women receivingsupplementary feeding. The project evaluation
        and OED study find an improvement inpregnancy weight gain inproject areas,
        but an even larger one inthe control. Allowing for other factors, the OED study
        finds a small project effect overall, but areasonably substantial one for women
        who are either destitute or o fpoor nutritional status. The target was met, but the
        amount attributable to the project appears small.

67.     The inter-sectoral nutrition component was also intended to raise nutritional
status. However, coverage fell short o f the desired 10beneficiariesper community in
many cases-andthose who didparticipate were not always the most needy. The ICR
states that the level o finputs was insufficient to bringabout any improvement inthe
nutritional status o f children inbeneficiary households. Some coordination mechanism
would have beendesirable, which has been handledthough NNP by makingthe same
NGOresponsible for implementation o fCBNC andinter-sectoral components within a
giventhana.

         z0
         Y




a
a,
-mm>m
.-

z0
U




         Y
         z
         0




         a
         Q)
         -m9m
         .-

         z0
         Y

      a
      a,
      -mm>m
      .-

      z0
      c




a
a
-m
.-
I
U
z0




      a
      a,
      -mm>
      .-

      c
      m
      z0       z0
               c




c
0

                                                   22


5.        Ratings

Outcome

68.       All three project objectives werehighlyrelevant to the country's development
objectives at the time and continue to be so today. The efficacy o fthe project in
institution building at the nationallevel -the first objective -- was modest. Capacity
buildingat the community levelinproject areas, was substantial, contributing toward
meetingboth the first and second objectives. Efficiencyi s more doubtful since the project
infrastructure hasprovedquite costly, the knowledge-practice gap i s still high, and
nutritional gains have beenvery small. The project outcome rating o f satisfactory
awarded by the ICRwas based on observed nutritionalimprovements from the CBNC -
the third objective. However, these improvements were based on information from the
                      l9
monitoring system, with the ICR itselfnoting that field observations did not support such
a positive view. The view from the endline, reinforcedby a number o f other studies, i s o f
at best a small nutritional impact, certainly falling far short o f the targets set at appraisal.
The efficacy o f the project inmeetingthe thirdobjective, therefore, was modest. The
overall project outcome rating i s ModeratelyUnsatisfactory.


InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

69,       Institutional development impact i s measured by the extent to which the project
enhancesthe ability o f the country to make better use o f its resources, inthis case in
tackling the nutritionproblem inBangladesh. The issue can be looked at from the point
o fview o f government, implementingNGOs and communities.

70,      Theproject was managedby a separateproject office, with NGOs responsible for
implementation at field level. Hence, the bulk o f training has not beento people who are
part o f government structure. Institutionaldevelopment activities with a range o fnational
nutrition agencies were only partially carried out. The direct impact on the ability o f
government to utilize its resources more efficiently intackling nutrition problems was
thus negligible.

71.      TheNGOsrecruitedwere ones who already hadthe capacity to implement such
programs. IndeedBRAC already had a similar project, so that BINP was leaming from
BRAC rather thanvice versa. So it cannot be argued that the project built the capacity o f
the implementingNGOs at a national level. However, there has been an impact on the
nutrition-relatedknowledge o fNGO employees, community workers (CNOs and CNPs)
and creation o f the VNMCs      - atthis level there hasbeenconsiderable capacity creation.
Offsettingthis assessment i s the fact that the NGOshave beenvery successfbl in
mobilizing women to take part, but have a mixed record inother respects, including the
poor performance o f some CNPs.




19.The ICRpaidless attention to the other project objectives (none inthe discussion of achievement of
objectives).

                                               23


 72.     At the community level therelevant findingis that the ability to understand
nutritional issues (shown by the knowledgemeasures) has indeedincreased, but that there
remains a gap betweenhavingknowledge and usingit. Onbalance these different
considerations indicate that an overall rating o fModest i s appropriate.


 Sustainability

 73.     There are bothpositive andnegative factors to take into account inassessing
 sustainability. On the positive side are the impressive creation o f community-level
infrastructure for nutritional interventions, growing public and government awareness o f
the importance o f nutrition, and the integrationo fnutrition into the tasks o fthe MOHFW
under NNP. However, the cost implications o f going to scale are large. Moreover, it was
originally envisaged that the cost o fpaying CNP stipends wouldbe borne by
communities, not government -it will berecalledthat one o f government's concerns
about BINPwas the creation o f a government-financed cadre o f community workers. But
there i s no sign that communities would be willing to take on these costs. Inthe short-run
activities are being sustained through the Bank-financed follow-on project. On balance,
sustainabilityi s rated as `Likely', but the concems raised here shouldbe noted.

Bank Performance

74.      Bankperformance overall is rated Satisfactory, althoughthere were serious
shortcomings insome aspects o fbothpreparation andsupervision, both o f which would
warrant a marginally satisfactory rating were it to be available. The shortcomings on the
Bank's sideincludedwere the failure to seriously consider alternative designs, some
designflaws (poor targeting criteria for supplementary feeding andinadequate attempts
for counseling to reach all decision makers)or to learn from experience as it emerged. On
theplusside, the Bank mobilized support for the project, accommodatingsome concerns
on the part o fthe borrower, and oversaw implementation, including expansion o f the
project beyondthe area originally envisaged.

75.     To be fair, the project design was based on a project perceived to be successful
( T N ) andthe data which initially emergedon BINP, from boththe monitoring system
andto some extent the midtermreviewwere promising. The process variables look good
-unfortunately, thechangesinbehaviorhavenotprovedsufficienttobringabout
substantial changes innutritional status. The discrepancy betweenwhat an apparently
similar approach has achieved inTamilNadubutnot achieved inBangladeshpoints to
weak implementation. The OED impact study o f the TamilNaduproject points to the
importance o fthe quality o f training for community workers, which appears to have been
deficient inBangladesh; OED found varying ability amongst CNPs incorrectly
interpreting growth charts.

76.     Bank supervision of components other than CNBC appearsto havebeen
unsatisfactory with little discussion inthe PSRs.

                                              24


BorrowerPerformance

77.      The Borrower hadinitial misgivingsconcerning the project. These shouldnot be
seen as poor performance, but as a genuine attempt to engage the Bank is dialogue
concerning a project about which it had doubts. Once it was agreed to proceedborrower
performancewas largely Satisfactory, despite initial delays, the imposition o f VAT on
NGOs, and a reluctance to accept technical assistance andweakness insome aspects o f
implementation at the national level.



6.       Findings and Lessons

78.      Therewere institutional problems inBINPwhich hampered implementation. The
ICR suggeststhat the inter-sectoral component shouldnot havebeenincluded, allowing
resources (including supervision) to focus on the core community component. However,
it appearsthat the more integrated approach to the inter-sectoral programsbeingadopted
underNNP isnow, unlikebefore, reachingthe target group.

79.     The limited impact ofBINP onnutritional outcomes raises serious doubts as to
thejustification for scaling theproject up to the nationallevel. To do so will prove very
costly, with limited nutritional gain. Several lessons emerge from this analysis which
shouldbe borne inmind:

    0   Supplementary feedingfor children does have a positive impact, especially for the
        most malnourishedchildren. NNP has revised the eligibility criteria so that only
        growth faltering children with WAZ<-2SDs receive feeding, as well all children
        with WAZ<-4 SDs. The latter group constitutes a very smallpercentage o f
        children, so there appears to be scope for raising this thresholdto, say, -2.5 SDs,
        to capture more children amongwhom feeding seems most successful. There i s
        also some mis-targeting,which i s likelyto bebest addressedby further training
        for CNPs ininterpretinggrowth charts.

    0   Supplementary feeding for pregnant women appears likelyto be an ineffective
        approach on two grounds: the pregnancy weight gain achieved by most women is
        too small to have a notable impact on birthweight (though there are sub-groups
        for which benefits are more substantial) and evidence from elsewhere suggests it
        i s anyhow pre-pregnancy weight which i s the more important determinant o f birth
       weight (Kramer, 1987). The programwould appear more successful ifit restricted
        its attention to the most malnourishedwomen, improvedtargeting to reduce Type
       I1error andtriedharder to discourage leakage and substitution.

    0  For both types o f feeding program, there i s evidence o f a greater impact inthe
       lean season. There are grounds for considering either increasingthe size o f the
       food supplement inthis period, restrictingit to those months, or adjustingthe
       eligibility criteria by time o f year.

                                              25


    0   Discouragingwomen from eating down duringpregnancy has some benefit for
        birthweight. But all forms o fknowledgetransmitted bytheproject suffer from a
        knowledge-practice gap &e., not puttingknowledge into practice, though uptake
        o fbetter practices has increased inproject areas). Such gaps are common and
        have multiplecauses. However, paying attention to the causes o f the gap can help
        enhance project effectiveness. Inthe short-run the gap can also be alleviated
        through better targeting, although that maynot help those who are time
        constrained.

80.     More general lessonscan also be drawn about the use o f the growth monitoring
approach. This approach has proved successful elsewhere, notably inTI",         so it cannot
be arguedthat growthmonitoringwith counseling is an inherentlyflawed approach.
Indeed, many studies show the role o fmother's knowledge inimproving child nutrition -
including OED's own impact study o fbasic education inGhana. There appear two main
reasonswhy the approach hasbeen less successful inBangladesh: (1) poor
implementation, notably training o f CNPs; and (2) resource constraints on mothers.
Consideration o f the context and attention to detail inimplementation are, rather needless
to say, vital ingredients o fprogram success.

81.     A positive lesson from BINP emerges withrespect to evaluation. There was a
strong commitment to evaluationfrom the start. Crucially, funds were obtained to
conduct the baseline prior to project effectiveness. This i s not usually done; inmany
projects the plannedbaseline gets delayed given other problems encountered during
project start-up. However, it would have beensensible to award a contract for all three
studies at the outset, rather than change contractors for the survey duringthe course of the
project.

                                             26


References

Berg, A. 1983. Nutrition Review, Population and Human Resources Department, World
       Bank,Washington DC.

Burkhalter B.R., E.Abel, V. Aguayo, S.M.Diene, M.B.Parlato, and J.S.Ross. 1999.
       "Nutrition advocacy and nationaldevelopment: the PROFILESprogramme and
       its application." Bulletin of the WorldHealth Organisation 77:407-15.

Haider, S. et al. 2004. Impact Evaluation of Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project
       Dhaka: IMED.

Karim, R, S.A. Lamstein, M.Akhtaruzzaman, K.M.Rahman, andN.Alam. 2003. The
       Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project: Endline Evaluation of the Community
       Based Nutrition Component. The Instituteof Nutrition and Food Sciences
       University of Dhaka, Bangladesh and The FriedmanSchool o fNutrition Science
       andPolicy, Tufts University, USA.

Kramer, M.S. 1987. "Determinants of low birth weight: methodologicalassessment and
       meta-analysis". Bulletin of the WorldHealth Organization 65(5), 663-737.

Martorell, R. and M. Shekar. 1992. "Growth-faltering Rates in California, Guatemala,
       and Tamil Nadu: Implications for Growth-Monitoring Programs". Food and
       Nutrition Bulletin 5(3).

Rahman, Ataur, Tom Marshall, Abul KalamAzad, and Jane Pryer. 2000. "Nutritional
       Vulnerability inDhaka Slum." Mimeo, Dhaka: PROSHIKA.

Save the ChildrenFederation. 2003. Thin on the Ground. Questioning the Evidence
       Behind WorldBankfunded Community Nutrition Projects in Bangladesh,
      Ethiopia and Uganda. Save the ChildrenFederation, United Kingdom, London.

World Bank. 1985. Bangladesh: Food and Nutrition Sector Review. Report No. 4974-
      BD.Population, Health andNutritionDepartment, WorldBank,Washington,
      D.C.

World Bank. 1994. Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project: Impact Evaluation Report.
      Report No. 13783-IN. Washington, D.C.: OED, World Bank.

World Bank. 1995. Staff Appraisal Report: Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project.
      Population and HumanResources Division, Washington, D.C.

World Bank. 2005. Maintaining Momentum? An Impact Evaluation of Interventions to
      Improve Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition in Bangladesh. Washington,
      D.C.: OED, World Bank.


                                                27                                          Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

BANGLADESHINTEGRATEDNUTRITIONPROJECT(CREDIT 2 7 3 5 - ~ ~ )

Key ProiectData(amounts in US$miZZion)
                                            Appraisal           Actual or           Actual as % of
                                             estimate        current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                             67.30              65.74                    97%
Loan amount                                    59.8               58.6                     97%
Cofinancing                                     0.0                0.0                     ma.
Cancellation                                     _-                 __                      _-

CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                      FY96     FY97   FY98   FY99       FYOO     f f O 1    f f 0 2 f f 0 3 FY04 FY05
Appraisalestimate      3.3      6.9   16.5    31.1       45.2     59.8       59.8    59.8 59.8    59.8
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)          0.6      1.6   6.3     13.8       24.5     39.5       45.4    51.6 51.6 51.6
Actual as % of         18       23     38      44        54        66         75      86     86   86
appraisal
Dateof final disbursement: 04/06/2003


ProjectDates
                                                    Original                        Actual
PCD                                                04/27/1990                      04/27/1990
Appraisal                                          01/I011994                      0111011994
Boardapproval                                      05/30/1995                      05/30/1995
Effectiveness                                      0711211995                      0711211995
Closingdate                                        12/31/2001                      06/30/2002


Staff Innuts(staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                    US$(lOOO)

Identification/Preparation                 122.3                            398.6
AppraisaVNegotiation                        11.4                             30.7
Supervision                                292.3                            409.1
ICR                                          10                               60
Total                                       436                             898.4

                                              28                                     Annex A


Mission Data
 Stage of Project Cycle       No of Persons & Specialty                       Performance Rating
                                                                           lmplementati Development
                                                                           on Progress   Objective

IdentificationlPreparation
                 March 1993     5     Populationand Health, Management,
                                      Economist, Procurement,Operations
                                     Analyst

 AppraisallNegotiation
                January 1994    5    Population and Health, Public
                                     Health, Management (2), Team
                                      Leader


                 March 1994     4     Populationand Health, Legal,
                                      Procurement, OperationsAnalyst
 Supervision
                06/30/1995           PSR initial Summary                                      S


                03/07/1996       5   Procurement; Maternal& Child Health;                     S
                                     Public Health; PHN (Mission Leader);
                                     Management
                09/29/1996       4   PHNTTechnical; Management                                S
                                     (MILeader); NutritionTTechnical;
                                     Procurement
                05/1311997       3   Procurement; Mission Leader;
                                     Nutrition/Technical
                1211711997       4   Procurement; Disbursement;Audit and
                                     Finance; Mission Leader
                07/30/1998       6   Management;Team Leader;
                                     Procurement Specialist; Disbursement
                                     Specialist; Financial management
                                     specialist; Inter Sectoral and WID
                11/22/1999      3    Task Leader; Operations Officer;                         S
                                     Operations Analyst
                07/20/2000      5    Nutrition; Operations Officer;                           S
                                     Operations Analyst; Procurement ;
                                     Financial Management
                05/17/2001      8    Task Leader; Operations ; Training;                      S
                                     Procurement ; Disbursement; Financial
                                     Management; Management; M&E
                05/23/2002      8    Mission Leader; Technical; Training ;                    S
                                     Financial Management; Disbursement;
                                     procurement; Social; Public Health
 ICR
                09/28/2002      4     Social Development (2);
                                      Economist (Task Team Leader)
                                      (1); Operations Officer (1)

                              29                              Annex A


Other Project Data
BorrowetYExecuting Agency:
FOLLOW-ON  OPERATIONS
Operation                      Credit no.   Amount         Board date
                                           (US$mi/lion)
National Nutrition Project      C 3356       124.46        05f2512000


