Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 25183
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27350)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 40.1 MILLION (US$ 59.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
December 16, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of 11/14/2002)
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
Tk. 1.00 = USS 0.01669
US$ 1.00 = Tk. 59.93
FISCAL YEAR
July 1, 2002 June 30, 2003
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BINP                                     -      Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project
CAS                                      -      Country Assistance Strategy
CBN                                      -      Community-Based Nutrition Component
CNC                                      -      Community Nutrition Center
CNO                                      -      Community Nutrition Organizer
CNP                                      -      Community Nutrition Promoter
DO                                       -      Development Objective
GOB                                      -      Government of Bangladesh
IEC                                      -      Information, Education and Communication
INC                                      -      Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Component
INFS                                     -      Institute of Nutrition and Food Science
Dhaka
ICDDR,B                                  -      International Center for Diarrhoeal Disease
Research, Bangladesh
KPI                                      -      Key Performance Indicator
MTE                                      -      Midterrn Evaluation
MTR                                      -      Midterm Review
MIS                                      -      Management Information System
MOHFW                                    -      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NGO                                      -      Non-Governmental Organization
NNC                                      -      National Nutrition Component
NNP                                      -      National Nutrition Project
PCR                                      -      Project Completion Report
PSR                                      -      Project Status Report
QEA                                      -      Quality at Entry Assessment
SAR                                      -      Staff Appraisal Report
SENA                                     -      Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities
TINP                                     -      Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
UNICEF                                   -      The United Nations' Children's Fund
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:  Fredrick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager/Director:  Anabela Abreu/Charles Griffin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Michele Gragnolati



BANGLADESH
INTEGRATED NUTRITION PROJECT
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                9
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  14
9 Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                          18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matnx                                 19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               27






'Project ID.' P009496                                     Project Name: Integrated Nutrition Project
Team Leader. Michele Gragnolati                          TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type. Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 16, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Integrated Nutrition Project                  LIC/TF Number: IDA-27350
Country/Department' BANGLADESH                                          Region* South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: Health (90%), Central government administration
(7%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
(2%), Other social services (1%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/27/1990                             Effective: 07/12/1995         07/12/1995
Appraisal.  01/10/1994                               MTR    06/30/1998          03/31/1999
Approval:  05/30/1995                              Closing: 12/31/2001         06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH/MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY
WELFARE
Other Partners:  None
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:     Frederick Thomas Temple                   Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Anabela Abreu                             Barbara Herz
Team Leader at ICR.  Michele Gragnolati                        S. K. Sudhakar
ICR Primary Author:  Meera Chatterjee
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact' M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Project aimed to initiate a national nutrition program with the long-term goal of improving
nutritional status, particularly of children under five, women and adolescent girls, to the extent that
malnutrition would cease to be a public health problem in Bangladesh. The Project's Development
Objectives (DOs) were: (a) to improve the capacity of national nutrition institutions in the areas of
advocacy, analysis of malnutrition, policy advice, operational research and support of programs; (b) to
improve the capacity of communities, households and individuals in the project areas to understand
nutritional problems in practical terms and take appropriate action to address them at their own levels; and
(c) to improve the nutritional status of the population in the project areas, with particular emphasis on
pregnant/lactating women and children under two years of age.
These development objectives were quite appropriate as malnutrition was a serious problem in
Bangladesh. At the time of project preparation over two-thirds of children under five years of age were
moderately or severely malnourished, and one-third to one-half of newbom were 'low birth weight',
pointing to malnourishment among pregnant women. The country had the potential to implement a
community-based approach to nutrition improvement as it had demonstrated the success of such an
approach in other similarly complex areas such as family planning, girls' education, and women's income
generation. However, it needed stronger nutrition institutions to pursue the long-term goal. The objectives
were also consistent with sectoral knowledge and Bank sector policy as they advocated attention to the
critical target groups, focused on community-level action, and highlighted the importance of policy and
research support to successful nutrition intervention.
The DOs remain highly relevant to the Borrower's current development priorities and Bank
policies, strategies and goals, including at least four of the eight Millenium Development Goals. Attention
to malnutrition, which continues to be a very serious problem, is central to Bangladesh's - and to the
Bank's - poverty reduction aims. The Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) since 1994 have focused on
human development and poverty reduction, of which nutrition is an important part. The 2002 Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper explicitly identifies the reduction of child and matemal malnutrition as
one of the major challenges that need to be addressed to achieve sustainable development and poverty
reduction in Bangladesh.
The Project was developed in the wake of a Child Nutritional Status Survey (1989-90 and 1992)
and a Demographic and Health Survey (1993-94) by the Government of Bangladesh. An advocacy effort
(the development of nutrition 'Profiles') was supported by the Bank to enhance the environment for
nutrition intervention. In addition, a pilot effort, on which the design of this project was based, had been
implemented in one thana (administrative unit of about 150,000 people, also known as an upazila) for
about two years.
The objectives of the Project were clearly understood by project managers, staff and associated
entities. The Project has been quite successful in achieving its third objective, as a result of widespread
development of human resources, good technical inputs and high-effort field management. However, its
first and second objectives, which are crucial to sustaining project outcomes and expanding efforts for
nutrition, were more complex and demanding, and proved difficult to achieve.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project's objectives were relevant and remained unchanged throughout the project period.
- 2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The Project had three components:
ComPonent 1: National Nutrition Activities (US$20.6 million),
with four sub-components:
i  Program Development and Institution Building (US$3.1 million),
ii Information, Education and Communication Development (US$4.8 million),
iii Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities (US$6.8 million), and
iv Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$5.9 million);
Component 2: Community-based Nutrition (US$39.1 million); and
Component 3: Inter-sectoral Nutrition Program Development (US$7.6 million).
The first component, National Nutrition Activities, aimed to increase general awareness of
malnutrition, and of its solutions at policy and decision-making levels. It intended to support the
formulation of a national nutrition program and to develop capacity for its implementation. It included
activities to coordinate and strengthen on-going nutrition programs, to manage this project, and to monitor
the effects of all nutrition interventions.
The Program Development and Institution Building sub-component was to undertake advocacy at
the highest levels to maintain political commitment and coordinate the development of national expertise.
The roles of existing nutrition institutions and NGOs was to be reviewed and streamlined to ensure
complementarity, and to identify areas that needed strengthening. The sub-component was also to fund
policy and operational research, and training and fellowships for key personnel to update country
knowledge in nutrition.
The Information, Education and Communication Development (IEC) sub-component was central
to the community-based nutrition activities (described below). It included advocacy and mass media
campaigns, the development of messages and materials based on formative research (studies of the cultural
and behavioral aspects of nutrition), and assessment of EEC needs. These activities were to be contracted
out to private firms with the necessary expertise, and managed by a unit within the Project Office in the
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), the key implementing agency.
A third sub-component was concemed with Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities, i.e.,
programs addressing different aspects of nutrition, particularly the control of micronutrient deficiencies.
These included the Camnpaign for the Protection and Promotion of Breastfeeding, the Baby-Friendly
Hospital Initiative, vitamin A distribution, control of anemia through iron-folate distribution to pregnant
women, and control of iodine deficiency disorders through quality testing of iodized salt, legal prevention of
marketing of non-iodized salt, and improved consumption practices.
The Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation sub-component included a
community-based nutrition monitoring system, a project Management Information System (MIS), and
evaluation activities (encompassing baseline, midterm and endline surveys). A nutritional surveillance
system was to be established in a sample of thanas. Annual reviews and a special review of project
implementation after two years in the first six thanas covered by the Project were to be conducted.
The Community-Based Nutrition Component included mobilization of women's groups in the
project villages, establishment of Community Nutrition Centers, selection and training of Community
Nutrition Promoters and their supervisors, Community Nutrition Organizers, growth monitoring and
- 3 -



promotion, basic health and nutrition counseling of mothers, preparation of supplementary food and
targeted feeding of children, and pregnant/lactating women, micro-nutrient supplementation, and some
basic health inputs.
The Inter-sectoral Nutrition Program Development Component was to set up an Inter-sectoral
Fund to finance sub-projects from other sectors focusing on improving the nutritional impact of activities in
those sectors. The sub-projects were to be new, pilot initiatives rather than on-going programs. An
Inter-sectoral Nutrition Cell was to be established to oversee this component, including inter-departmental
coordination, review of proposals, and monitoring.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no change in the design of the Project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry Assessments were not carried out in the Bank at the time of project initiation
(FY95). At the current time, the Project can be considered to have been satisfactory quality at entry. As
discussed in section 3.1, the Project's strategic relevance -- development rationale, consistency with CAS
and sector strategies, basis in sectoral knowledge and experience, and Borrower ownership -- was high.
The Project incorporated attention to poverty and social issues, including gender, very well, but current
enviromnental and other safeguard policies (such as the policy for indigenous people) would have placed
additional preparation requirements on it. For example, an environmental management framework would
have been required for the inter-sectoral activities, and greater attention would have been needed to ensure
that indigenous people would benefit from project activities. In the event, the Project did not include tribal
areas of Bangladesh and negative environmental impacts did not occur as few inter-sectoral activities were
undertaken.
The Bank had a comparative advantage in assisting this project because of its involvement in the
similar Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TINP) in India, and other relevant nutrition projects in
Indonesia, Guinea-Bissau and Colombia. The TINP had started in 1980 and, at the final evaluation of its
first phase in 1989, was considered to be a successful project. Preparation of this project began thereafter
and involved several Bank staff who had been part of the Bank's TINP team. In addition, representatives
of the Govemment of Bangladesh (GOB) visited several nutrition projects in Tamil Nadu, Indonesia, Sri
Lanka and the Phillippines during project preparation. These visits were useful to gather inputs for project
design and to build ownership and partnership. The Bank also had good access to intemational nutrition
expertise and the ability to foster partnership among agencies such as UNICEF and other national and
international non-govemmental organizations (NGOs) to assist in the development and implementation of
the Project.
While the project design incorporated a number of lessons from the four Bank-financed nutrition
projects mentioned above, particularly lessons related to community nutrition activities, it appears to have
overlooked other important information. For example, the earlier projects identified strong project
management as a critical factor for success, and at least two of the four projects pointed to the difficulties
of achieving inter-sectoral coordination. These two omissions were critical as weak management and
complication of the design with the inter-sectoral nutrition component ultimately conspired to limit the
Project's achievements. Early Project Status Reports (PSR) suggest that management was inadequate at
entry and slow to start-up. This had been flagged as a project risk, to be mitigated by technical support
from outside and phasing of the Community-Based Nutrition Component (CBN), but these mitigation
measures were insufficient. While coordination for inter-sectoral action was also identified as a risk, the
Cell proposed to manage the Inter-sectoral Nutrition Component (INC) and hence mitigate this risk was
- 4 -



unable to do so effectively. Overall, preparation of the policy and institutional aspects was weak,
particularly the assessment of capacity for implementation and of risks, and the implementation
arrangements.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective
The Project was Satisfactory in terms of achieving its main development objective, i.e., improving
the nutritional status of pregnant/lactating women and children in the project areas. According to project
monitoring data, the 'targets' for improvement of children's nutritional status have been well exceeded.
Severe malnutrition was apparently reduced from a base level of 13% to 0.9% in June 2002, and moderate
malnutrition from 32% to 16.4%, declines of 92 and 49%, respectively, in excess of the targeted decreases
of 40% and 25%. Low birth weight was reduced from 40% to 18%, below the targeted 20%. In the first
phase upazilas, the proportion of adequately nourished pregnant women increased from 43% to 61%
during the project period. It should be noted, however, that these are program data. Although the Project's
monitoring system is believed to be good, discussions and observations in the field did not support the
reported, sigrificant decline in moderate malnutrition. The Midterm Evaluation which was carried out in
1998, 40-42 months after the Baseline Survey showed a significant improvement in severe malnutrition
among children, and a difference between project and control thanas, but these differences were not
obseved in moderate malnutrition. The Endline Evaluation is expected to give more reliable figures.
These improvements in nutritional status were in part the result of some progress toward the
second objective, improving the capacities of communities, households and individuals to understand and
address malnutrition. Only one indicator among those reported in the PSRs is a good proxy for household
knowledge and nutrition-related practices: the extent to which lactating women in the project areas practice
exclusive breastfeeding of their infants for five months. The data show that this increased from 10% to
41% up to October 2001, still short of the 70% expected by project closing.
A recent study conducted independently of the Project, after the devastating flood of 1998, throws
useful light on the achievements of the Project. Although many households were able to smooth
consumption expenditure, not all were able to maintain adequate calorie consumption during and after the
flood. As a result, the nutritional status of children in households that were more severely exposed to the
flood deteriorated. The study investigated which households were better protected from longer term
nutritional problems, and whether the health of flood-exposed children recovered to the level of their
unexposed neighbors. It found that children exposed to the flood did not recover from the shock to their
health. However, children in project areas were able to recover better from the deleterious effects of the
flood on their health than children living in areas where there was no nutrition program. Further, within
project areas, the 'catch up' growth of girls following the crisis was found to be better than that of boys,
the presumed result of the Project's focus on girls. These findings suggest that the Project invested well in
children's health, and that the investment in nutrition has a positive impact cushioning children's growth
against shocks.
Overall, the Project's design was appropriate to achieve its objectives. It was, however, less well
suited to available implementation capacity, which caused two components to lag behind the third.
Existing capacity was inadequate to the tasks entailed in the national nutrition component, particularly the
institution-building sub-component, and the inter-sectoral component. While some difficulties also arose in
the management of the govemment-NGO partnership required to implement the Community-based
Nutrition Component, this was relatively more successful.
These variations in achievement suggest that although project design and objectives were well
- 5 -



aligned the Project may have been too ambitious for a 'first' nutrition project. By taking a wide view of
nutrition and attempting to build synergies across sectors and levels, the Project diverted attention from its
core activities. Simplification of Component 1 and exclusion of Component 3 could have improved the
overall performance of the Project. Bank supervision, too, could have re-channeled the effort expended on
Component 3 to providing stronger technical oversight of the community nutrition activities and to
enhancing the position of nutrition in the structure and functions of the MOHFW, making for an improved
and more sustainable program.
4.2 Outputs by components:
National Nutrition Components The key outputs of this component were: a review of national
nutrition institutions, a formative research study for the development of IEC activities, establishment of
support cells and teams, contracts with specific agencies to strengthen existing nutrition activities or
provide technical assistance (e.g., the Bangladesh Breastfeeding Foundation and Helen Keller
International), operational research studies, project evaluation surveys (baseline and midterm) and other
project management items (such as the Project Implementation Volume, bidding documents, audit
statements and progress reports).
Two output indicators were used by the Project to assay this component and recorded in the PSRs:
Completion of the Review of Major National Nutrition Institutions, and Development of an Operational
Research Strategy. The review of national institutions was completed after significant delay, and follow-up
action by way of capacity development of these institutions was slow and remains incomplete. Several key
institutions that were identified before Appraisal (e.g., the Bangladesh National Nutrition Council, the
Institute of Food Sciences and Technology, the Institute of Public Health Nutrition) do not appear to have
received much attention under the Project.
Eighteen operational research studies were completed and produced useful results and insights.
Although the studies were relevant to the problems experienced in the on-going nutrition programs, a
strategy to utilize the results does not appear to have been developed. However, some findings influenced
the design of the expanded National Nutrition Project (NNP) in FY00. (Additional information on the NNP
is given below in Section 6.2.)
The two specific indicators above relate to outputs under the Program Development and
Institution Building sub-component. No output indicators related to the IEC, Strengthening Existing
Nutrition Activities (SENA), or Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation sub-components were
reported in the PSR. The chie,f outputs of the IEC sub-component were various communications materials
and activities. On account of a mis-procurement declared on an IEC contract - for which the Bank had
given no objection and the Borrower did not award the selected agency - to produce materials centrally,
field activities depended largely on materials produced by the implementing NGOs and on mass media
efforts such as radio and TV broadcasts, documentary films and news media campaigns. These were
regarded as quite successful (though not evaluated) and a range of people associated with the Project felt
that there had been no real need for the external assistance contract. Efforts under the SENA
sub-component included promotion of breastfeeding and micro-nutrient supplementation. While the
'outputs' of these activities were not measured, some of their outcomes have been discussed above. The
endline survey (which has been delayed due to contracting problems) will collect information on iron
supplementation of pregnant and lactating women, and vitamin A supplementation of post-partum women,
which are among 'existing nutrition activities'.
- 6 -



Community-based Nutrition Component. The main outputs of this component, produced largely
by field-based NGOs, were: village, union and thana nutrition committees; Community Nutrition Centers
(CNC) with trained Community Nutrition Promoters (CNP) and Organizers (CNO), women's groups,
growth monitoring sessions, meetings with adolescent girls and newly-wed women, and supplementation of
women and children with therapeutic nutrition or micro-nutrients. Achievements under the component were
reported on the basis of key performance indicators (KPI) related to program outreach and community
(especially women's) participation, in addition to the outcomes related to improved nutrition practices and
nutritional status that were discussed above. The targeted levels for the four KPIs - 80% of Village
Nutrition Committees active, 80% of Community Nutrition Centers functioning, 100% of Women's
Groups preparing supplementary food, and 80% coverage of 0-24 month-old children with Growth
Monitoring and Promotion - were almost fully (90-100 %) achieved (see Annex 1).
Some additional information on project outputs and outcomes is available in the Midterm
Evaluation (MTE) report. The MTE data showed that while a number of improvements in health and
nutrition took place in both project and non-project areas, there were also many positive changes that could
be attributed to the Project. For example, sanitation practices were considerably better in the project areas
than control areas. Similarly, ante-natal visits to and by mothers were higher in the project areas, as was
protection of mothers against tetanus. The most remarkable change was in mothers' eating habits during
pregnancy: over twice as many (55.7%) had increased their food intake in project thanas compared with
control thanas (21.9%). Positive outcomes of this were seen in higher pregnancy weight gains of women,
and in a lower percentage of underweight newborn in the project areas. Vitamin A supplementation in the
post-partum period was also considerably higher in the project areas (56.1%) compared with control areas
(10.2%). Some other factors, such as child immunization, exclusive breastfeeding, and timely weaning of
infants, were not very different in the two areas.
Inter-sectoral Nutrition Component. The key outputs of this component were home gardens and
poultry units. A third proposed activity, an Assessment of the Effects of Agricultural Policies and
Programs on Food Consumption and Nutrition, did not develop due to lack of interest on the part of the
parent Ministry of Agriculture, and was terninated around December 1999. Additional activities were to
be identified and financed as the project evolved, but this did not occur - Bank supervision Aide Memoires
suggest that management of this component was wrongly located in the GOB and, hence, ineffective.
While the Staff Appraisal Report identified several indicators of achievement for this component, they were
not included in the PSRs, and apparently were not monitored during supervision.
Information on the garden and poultry activities is only available from a recent study of these
sub-components (Karim et al., 2002). Although the activities were to cover at least ten beneficiaries each
in every CNC, this coverage was not at all achieved. Data were not collected on actual coverage. The
study points out that a significant proportion of beneficiary households (64% and 56% for the garden and
poultry activities, respectively) were not from the desired target group, and that the complementarity needed
with community-based nutrition activities was absent. The inputs and services needed for the success of
these activities were inadequate, resulting in high drop-out rates from the activities or in increments in
consumption that were insufficient to improve the nutritional status of children in the participating
households.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return 
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
-7 -



4.5 Institutional development impact.
Institutional development under the Project was, on the whole, modest. The Project aimed to
develop two types of institutions: national institutions to support nutrition improvement efforts and
grassroots institutions, including CNCs, women's groups, Village Nutrition Comnittees, management
committees at thana and union levels, and the NGOs responsible for implementation. The development of
national nutrition institutions fell short of expectations. A few key institutions, such as the International
Center for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B) and the Institute of Nutrition and Food
Science (INFS), benefited from participating in the Project. However, several other important
organizations that had been identified were not assisted. Further, key institution-building objectives, such
as obtaining an important position for nutrition within the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and
getting other departments, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, to focus on nutrition and food security were
not achieved.
On the other hand, the Project was quite successful in developing local-level institutions, and
particularly the associated human resources, for nutrition improvement. A pioneering feature of the Project
was the participation of NGOs, as key partners and implementors. The Project built their capacities to
carry out nutrition and health related work in village communities, including technical and managerial
knowledge and skills, and abilities in important areas such as communications for behavioral change. The
capabilities of people ranging from NGO headquarters' staff to thana and union-level workers and
committees members, to CNOs and CNPs at village level were enhanced. This in turn extended the
outreach of the country's health and family welfare system, particularly for ante-natal care. These
achievements will enable the NGOs who play an important role in the delivery of social services in
Bangladesh, to mainstream nutrition in their development activities. The creation of village-level
institutions, and their involvement in a systematic effort including knowledge sharing and development and
the use of simple technologies, was also successful. The survival of all these institutions will be important
to ensure continued attention to nutrition among poor communities in the project areas.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The impact of factors outside the control of Govermment on the Project was negligible. During the
project period, Bangladesh experienced a major flood in 1998 and some political crises. While the flood
could have had a negative impact on the Project, by all accounts project implementation continued in most
areas, with no serious interruptions. Similarly, no specific untoward effects can be ascribed to the changes
in govemment that occurred during this period.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
Factors under the control of the Govemment at large had a partial impact on the Project. Some
that may have contributed to the Project's achievements are: (a) Bangladesh's success in family planning
and in increasing the age at marriage, particularly in the project areas, which would have encouraged
parents to take better care of their 'wanted' children and improved the knowledge and health of mothers; (b)
increased agricultural production in the country during the project period, which resulted in lower prices
and, possibly, improvements in the availability of food among poor families; and (c) declines in poverty.
Data on foodgrain production show that total output in Bangladesh grew steadily during 1995-1999,
achieving an increase of over 30% during this period. Country-wide data also show that poverty levels fell
during the 1990s by 15-20%, which would have contributed to the reduction of malnutrition.
The Project's success is widely credited to the Borrower's commitment to reducing malnutrition,
- 8 -



on the one hand, and effective implementation of the community nutrition component by the field NGOs, on
the other. While government commitment was avowedly strong, its delayed action in terms of establishing
the Project Office and contracting NGOs to implement the Project resulted in lesser achievement. Low
involvement in the Project of departments outside the MOHFW caused in weak implementation of the
inter-sectoral nutrition component, and particularly the failure of the agricultural policy assessment work.
An issue that arose with the Audit Directorate on taxation of NGO contracts undermined project
implementation. The provision of counterpart funds was never a major problem.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control*
Factors specifically under the control of the key implementing agency (the Project Office in the
MOHFW) determined project achievement substantially. Among these, the following appear to have
reduced the pace or quality of implementation: inadequate staff capacity in quantity and quality, technical
as well as managerial, which resulted in a weak ability to follow Bank procurement guidelines; untimely
staff transfers; and the unwillingness or inability to identify or engage technical assistance, both national
and intemational. The ability to initiate project activities as well as to supervise on-going ones was
limited. Both continuity of staff in the Project Office and quality of leadership at various times were
insufficient for the tasks at hand. These factors undermined progress in the national nutrition component,
particularly the IEC and institution-building sub-components. There were cumulative delays in the
imnplementation schedule, many due to tardiness in issuing contracts or making agreements. EEC activities
were never implemented fully because of inadequate financing of the mass media activities, and
mismanagement of the contract for the production of materials. The absence of a procurement plan (which
was not mandated by the Development Credit Agreement) may have contributed to these delays. Other
aspects of the NNC were perhaps inadequately detailed during preparation. For example, had the review of
institutions been done during preparation rather than left to the Project, the institution-building
sub-component could have been expedited. The financial management and audit systems were established
slowly, as were the project MIS and follow-up of supervision recommendations. Many issues identified
during Bank supervision missions and the Midterm Review remained unresolved to the end of the Project.
The field NGOs were also key implementing agencies in this project. Important factors that
enhanced implementation were: broad community mobilization around the CNCs and particularly the
participation of women; good training of CNOs and CNPs; and a well-organized supervisory system.
While field workers and managers reported that coordination with the government health system was
difficult, project data suggest that this did not overly constrain the provision of nutrition-related health
services, including ante-natal care and recording of birth weights.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total Project cost was US$67.3 million, and the IDA credit US$ 59.8 million (equivalent to
SDR 40.10 million) for six years. The Borrower's contribution was US$ 7.5 million or 11.1 % of the total.
The allocations of total project costs to components were as follows: 32 % to national nutrition activities
(US$20.6 million), 56% to community-based nutrition activities (US$39.1 million), and 12% to the
inter-sectoral nutrition program (US$ 7.6 million).
This level of project financing was quite adequate to meet the objectives of the Project. Substantial
disbursement lags were reported during the first three years of the Project (76-86%), in large part because
of delays in issuing contracts. At Midterm Review (MTR) a disbursement lag of about 60% was reported.
The Project was extended for six months. After the MTR, the disbursement lag declined steadily to 14% at
the last supervision (June 2002). Counterpart funds were rated Unsatisfactory in only one (of 15) PSRs, in
MayI999.
-9-



The final actual cost of the Project was: US$ 65.74 million, of which the IDA contribution was
US$ 58.63 million and the Borrower contribution US$ 7.11 million (all figures amounting to 97.7% of the
Appraisal estimates). The amounts spent on the three components, and the percentage spent on each
component relative to the Appraisal estimates were: National Nutrition Component: US$18.44 million,
99.7%; Community Nutrition Component: US$32.31 million, 99%; Inter-sectoral Nutrition Component:
US$6.54 million, 93%.
The Borrower's Project Completion Report (PCR) shows that the use of consultant funds was very
low, funds for training abroad were hardly utilized, and expenditure on IEC and educational materials fell
short of planned amounts. On the whole expenditure on the policy and institution building sub-components
was low. On the other hand, expenditure on office costs was seven times the planned amount although only
8% of expected amounts were spent on project management staff and one-third on vehicles. Due to a ruling
by the Audit Directorate the Project spent 80 times the expected amount on taxes, as Income and VAT
taxes were levied on NGO contracts and paid from project funds.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is Likely, but with some qualifications. The chief basis for this is the extent
to which the Project has brought about change in the knowledge and practices related to matemal and child
nutrition in the project areas. This change is likely to persist at least in those households that have
participated in the program, and there is a fair chance that it will spread to other members of the target
group over time. Second, strong community participation, including the participation of women and
adolescent girls, local women CNPs and CNOs, and community management of activities such the
preparation of supplementary food, augurs well for continued attention to malnutrition at the community
level. Third, the NGOs responsible for implementing the Project could continue community nutrition
activities using the considerable knowledge and skills they have built. During project periods when
payments to NGOs were delayed, they continued their services and, similarly, delays in worker payments
did not cause major disruptions of their activities. However, access to financial resources is clearly
important for continuation of the NGO programs (see below). Fourth, the Project is technically sustainable
as it has shown that relatively modest technical inputs coupled with strong community education and
mobilization can achieve tangible results.
Project sustainability, however, is limited by some of its key weaknesses. First, despite
government commitment, the institutional and managerial framework for the Project has remained weak.
The location of the Project Office outside the MOHFW reduced prospects of project assimilating nutrition
activities in the Ministry's programs. As the discussion above on Institutional Development suggests, the
quality of institution-building in the Project was mixed, so that institutional sustainability overall is low.
Second, failure to implement the inter-sectoral component well has diminished likelihood of its
sustainability both at the household level (in terms of increased income and/or food availability) and
programatically. Third, constraints on worker time and inadequacy of 'mass' IEC resulted in the
opportunity to reinforce inter-personal messages being missed. Hence, sustaining behavioral change will
most likely require continued interactions between workers and mothers, rather being powered by an
environment of nutrition knowledge conducive to positive practices. Fourth, the Project did not include
significant cost recovery measures in any component, and an effort to develop incentives for workers to
carry on the program was not completed. The NGOs would need access to funds to continue providing the
(free to beneficiaries) nutrition and health services. While the costs of workers, training and supplies
appear reasonable, about a third of project costs were for nutrition supplements. All these costs are
currently being met by the NNP. Fifth, better integration of nutrition concems in the health system could
- 10 -



have increased attention to nutrition during health service delivery and enhanced sustainability. Finally,
delays in the final phases of the Project and in implementation of the follow-on National Nutrition Project,
and a consequent reduction of activity in project areas, may have eroded some of the base of this project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
One of the objectives of the Project was to develop a National Nutrition Program (NNP), which
would commence with this project. Preparation, appraisal and start-up of the NNP took place between
1997 and 2000 when the results of this Project were emerging. The design of the new project took some of
these lessons and achievements into account. The NNP put community nutrition at the center, and
streamlined the activities contained in the national nutrition component. Only selected 'existing nutrition
services' were included and the sub-component to develop national nutrition institutions was dropped. The
inter-sectoral component was merged with the community nutrition component and is to be managed 'in a
package' by the field NGOs.
Thus, in effect, the Project was remodeled and scaled up. Following closure of the Project in June
2002, the 59 upazilas covered were absorbed into the NNP, which is to expand to 139 upazilas over its
four-year life (FY01-04). IDA committed a further US$ 92 million (SDR 68.5 million) to a total cost of
US$ 124.46 million for the NNP in this period. However, current delays in the NNP's implementation
suggest that the preparation of the NNP may have been premature, and that lessons from the Project had
not been adequately absorbed. These include the need for strong leadership and technical and managerial
capacity for nutrition in the Project Office, and effective integration between the community-based
implementing NGOs and the govemment health and family welfare delivery system. Bank supervision will
need to address these issues early to ensure that the gains of this Project are not eroded.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory
This Project was well prepared, with strong involvement of the Bank. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 13193-BD, dated April 26, 1995) is a 'state-of-the art' document with an excellent analysis of the
nutritional situation in Bangladesh at the time, a clear expose of the main issues in nutrition, and good
arguments for IDA involvement in the sector. The conceptual basis for the Project was sound, standing
scrutiny even seven years later. This is vindication of the fact that project preparation took five years from
concept to Appraisal. It should be noted that while the knowledge base for project design was adequate,
definitive Bank Sector Work on nutrition in Bangladesh was done during the Project, and published in 2001
when this Project was drawing to a close and the NNP had already been under implementation for over a
year (World Bank, 2001). The Project's objectives, strategies and activities were well-conceived, though
greater attention could have been devoted to ensuring integration between the 'direct' community nutrition
activities and the allied ones, notably health services and food production/income generation activities, in
view of their inclusion in the Project.
Many excellent Bank staff and consultants participated in project preparation. A couple areas of
expertise, however, were inadequately represented: micro-enterprise development, that was crucial to the
inter-sectoral nutrition component, and institutional analysis, which would have benefited the national
nutrition component. Despite the availability of other donors in the sector and country, there were no
formal co-financing or cooperative plans. As a multilateral agency working in Bangladesh on similar
issues, UNICEF provided support at the request of the Borrower and the Bank often tiding over delays --
for example, in Start-up of NGO activities and in the baseline survey. Other key aspects of Appraisal have
- 1 1 -



already been discussed in various sections above, including the issues of government commitment,
implementing agency capacity, complexity of project design, lessons from earlier projects, safeguard
policies, 'incentives' for project sustainability, and financing. Project risks were probably underestimated,
while performance indicators and the implementation schedule were quite specific.
The Project was innovative in its approach, including, for example, supplementary food produced
by women's groups at the village level (a successful pilot component of the precursor, Bank-financed,
Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project), and operational research. It is also noteworthy that the Project
proposed a manageable geographic coverage (which, in fact, was exceeded during implementation), and
had a strong gender dimension. An important feature of the design was the allowance for activities to be
added to address issues that arose during implementation. One such issue was arsenic contamination of
wells, and a strategy to address it was included in the community nutrition component. Issues related to the
project management structure have been discussed above and below. Project costs and financing were
reasonably accurate, taking into account the increase in coverage from 40 to 59 upazilas and the extension
of six months that was accorded to the Project.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory
Bank supervision of this project was regular despite country disturbances at critical junctures (such
as the time the first mission was expected), and one or two brief gaps during the seven years from
Appraisal to closure. The task teams usually had a mix of managerial (including financial and
procurement) and technical expertise, but an inter-sectoral and social specialist only from the fifth
supervision. While task management changed hands three times in the first three years of the Project, for
most of the project period the task manager was located in the field office (Dhaka). There was some
continuity in the task team over the life of the Project. The Aide Memoires are rich reports of
implementation and, while this richness is not captured in the Project Status Reports (PSRs), the early
Form 590s record reasonable ratings and have useful 'issues and actions' sections. Unfortunately, the
archived sequence of PSRs, including the later ones, are less candid and useful. Performance ratings are
sometimes optimistic, and attention to development impact was not broad enough, given the ambitious
scope of the project. There was a tendency to focus on the well-achieving community nutrition component
to the exclusion of the other two in the ratings. Not unusually, the weakest aspect of the PSRs is the Key
Performance Indicator Annex. The KPIs for "outcomes and outputs" were not adequately distinguished or
identified. The data were not filled in until after the Midterm Evaluation, and the latest data available are
for October 2001.
Initial missions focused attention on project start-up activities (e.g., establishment of project
managementlimplementation entities, staffing, development of plans, strategies and proposals, contracts,
etc.) and reported implementation delays, providing the Borrower appropriate guidance. Subsequent
missions paid greater attention to technical content, training, monitoring, and field activities. The role of
the field office was strong, but some aspects of the Project such as growth monitoring and the adolescent
girls' programs would have benefitted from stronger technical supervision. The Bank teams addressed
problems pro-actively and their follow-up of recommendations and agreed actions was good. No major
issues arose with regard to covenants, and there was no need for the use of remedies other than suggesting
discontinuation (e.g., of the agricultural policy review). In general, flexibility was shown with regard to the
addition or cessation of project activities, without major detriment to the project (with the exception,
perhaps, of the EEC sub-component). Management inputs were adequate and so was procurement and
financial management support. The Bank team appears to have had a cordial relationship with the
Borrower and other implementation agencies throughout, if not always an effective one. While low levels
of disbursement were pointed out repeatedly, the Project was slow to respond, as noted above. The
- 12 -



Midterm Review (carried out 3 years and 8 months into the six-year Project) was clearly a turning point. It
included a detailed plan of action for implementation of its recommendations, and it is after this that
disbursements increased.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory
A chief concern relates to the diming of the follow-on National Nutrition Project. While the
phasing was appropriate because Project funds appear to have been almost fully spent following a
six-month extension, preparation of the NNP had the effect of reducing both the Bank's and the Borrower's
attention to this project when it had begun to do well (after the Midterm Review) and had the GOB's
support. While the differential success of the three components was taken into account in designing the
NNP, the lack of adequate project management capacity in the GOB to handle this project, and
commensurate requirement for greater capacity to handle the NNP were not adequately addressed.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory
The Borrower either prepared or facilitated the preparation of important inputs for the design of the
Project including a detailed analysis of the nutrition situation of Bangladesh, review of food security and
related programs in the country, a proposal for linkages between the Project and the existing health and
family welfare program, and a study of existing nutrition activities. A Project Concept Paper and 'Project
Proforma' (similar to the SAR) were ready at Appraisal, while the Project Implementation Volume was
completed after the first Bank supervision mission. Bank documents make repeated reference to the high
level of Borrower commitment to the Project. Assistance was also provided by UNICEF and other donors
in Bangladesh, and technical preparation of the project drew on several national agencies and experts (in
addition to staff and international consultants brought in by the Bank).
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory
Despite its slow start, the Project was effectively implemented. Initial ratings of project
implementation progress as Unsatisfactory were due to delays in staffing of the Project management unit,
procurement and contracting of the field implementation agency, and monitoring, with consequent partial
compliance with some legal covenants. Because this project was implemented pre-LACI, a Financial
Management Assessment was not completed but there was due attention to Financial Management issues
during implementation. The national nutrition component, inter-sectoral nutrition component, and
development of the MIS lagged considerably behind the community-based nutrition activities for the first
two to three years. After initial effort, the IEC sub-component was impeded by the Borrower's failure to
award the contract to the selected agency (resulting in a declaration of misprocurement). Unfortunately the
MIS was never used to provide feedback to the field. Project Office staff also did not visit the field enough
on account of insufficient allowances and vehicles, among other constraints. Local level meetings helped to
overcome some of these problems. Despite these vicissitudes, the Project was able to meet its key
development objectives, and was extended beyond the originally planned project area.
There is no evidence of undue interference in operational decisions, but decisions on project
staffing were sometimes untimely and inappropriate. Integration of the Project with the Health and
Population Sector Program resulted in diminished attention to it in the MOHFW at monthly meetings and
- 13 -



in monitoring reports While the Project decided in mid-course to replace its two implementation models
("government-run and NGO-assisted" and "NGO-run and government-assisted" - see section 8 for further
details) with a single hybrid, this important change was not carried out effectively. At the time of the ICR
mission (September 2002) 20 of the original 40 upazilas were still govermnent-run, and only the 19 'new'
upazilas were NGO-run in keeping with the decision. In the government-run upazilas, the NGOs faced
problems with payment of staff, timely hiring, and obtaining supplies. The follow-on project will need to
pay detailed attention to ensuring a workable model in form and function.
7.6 Implementing Agency-
Satisfactory
In the Project NGOs were contracted for the community-based nutrition component, and the
inter-sectoral nutrition component, and institutes, such as the ICDDR, B, for key tasks such as, in this case,
operational research. This partnership model of implementation was unique in South Asia at the time the
Project was initiated, and most of the organizations concerned performed at very high levels. The Project
was, by and large, able to avoid or overcome some of the usual problems in such a model, such as seriously
negative attitudes among NGO and government staff towards each other. However, problems of
coordination were rife and could have been reduced through better supervision.
While the community nutrition program is vibrant and effective, there is evidence that it could have
benefitted from better technical supervision by the field implementing agencies, the Project Office and the
Bank. The CNPs are doing commendable work in community mobilization, growth monitoring and
promotion, and provision of supplementary feeding at the CNCs. However, they require additional training
and supervision to address growth faltering through proper use of growth charts, for the promotion of
dietary micro-nutrient intake, and for the adolescent girl and newly-wed couple programs. The decision to
have CNOs provide additional ante-natal services needs to be carefully reviewed. Similarly, additional
supervision could have benefitted the inter-sectoral nutrition component as a substantial investment was
made in both the poultry-keeping and home-gardening sub-projects.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
An important insight was obtained by the Bank ICR mission during discussions in the field. Staff
who were managing and delivering high quality services were asked what they thought were the good
aspects of the Project, and what its weaker aspects. Among the things they found gratifying were the
changes brought about by the program in household and community dynamics, and the visible impacts on
children's and mothers' nutrition. However, foremost among the difficulties they identified was an inability
to express their problems at higher level fora (such as upazila meetings) to have them resolved. The
Project (and the NNP) could have benefitted a great deal if it had maintained an environment in which all
participants and staff were free to voice their concems and have these addressed squarely.
8. Lessons Learned
There are several important lessons of value to future nutrition projects in Bangladesh, South Asia
and elsewhere. Other lessons would be useful for community-based projects in similar sectors and areas
where poor communities resemble those of Bangladesh. And finally, some lessons pertain to projects at
large.
Lessonsfor Nutrition Projects
- 14 -



*      It is possible to reduce severe malnutrition in a relatively short period of time (e.g., one year)
with the combination of services provided by the Project, i.e., systematic identification of those at risk,
followed by intensive counseling and food supplementation. Broad awareness of nutrition in communities
is a facilitating factor. Relapse into severe malnutrition is probably associated with other social and
psychological factors, or underlying health problems, that are more difficult to address in 'simple'
community-based programs. The Project had less success in reducing moderate malnutrition, which is
more difficult to do as it requires a more complex message to get across to workers and mothers (attention
to "growth faltering"). This calls for better trained and more alert workers and more intensive education of
mothers.
*      It is also possible to reduce under-nourishment of women during pregnancy through education
and food supplementation over at least 5 months of pregnancy. The earlier education begins (e.g., during
adolescence) and the more widespread it is in the community and household, the more likely this success.
(Associated factors, such as reduced fertility, also have a role.) Low birth weight can be reduced through
these processes.
*      The package of program inputs had a straightforward organizing principle - growth monitoring
and promotion of very young children - around which most of the other efforts were built, including care of
pregnant women, preparation of food, and micronutrient supplementation. An important corollary is that it
is more difficult to introduce, sustain and achieve impact from activities that have a wider set of goals and
inputs, such as inter-sectoral interventions and adolescent girls' and newly-wed women's education.
*      Preparation of the food supplements in the villages by local women was an important approach
to spreading the message of nutrition and sustaining it.
Lessons for Community-based Programs
*      Community involvement helps to bring about behavioral change - and consequent development.
Perhaps the most commendable aspect of the Project was its success in bringing about behavioral change in
poor, traditional settings. A number of factors were implicated in this achievement (and the resultant
improvements in the nutrition and health of mothers and children). The most important of these were:
widespread community mobilization and, particularly, the involvement of women in communication
activities as well as in 'hands-on' efforts, such as growth monitoring of children, preparation of
supplementary food at the village level, in management committees, and as community nutrition workers.
The result of these two approaches was a cost effective system that spread the basic technical inputs for
better nutrition while exerting positive pressure on communities and families to care for children and
mothers.
*      "Community involvement" in turn means that a high degree of organization and professionalism
are required of the field implementing agencies. The technical inputs could be introduced by NGOs
through community workers with a modicum of education, provided they were well-trained, organized and
supervised. They achieved a high level of behavioral change through inter-personal communication
involving two-way information flows, counseling, demonstration, and locally-produced LEC materials.
Good organization and supervision are particularly important to ensure quality when implementation is
decentralized.
Lessons for General Programs
*      A good partnership requires a learning environment. The partnership between the Government
and NGOs facilitated the Project's community-based approach while providing a management framework
and resources for a widespread program. An important ingredient of this partnership was the 'learning'
- 15-



nature of the Project. This allowed for implementation to be strengthened from one phase to the next, and
for decision-making to be based on reviews of implementation. For example, the Project acknowledged the
problems faced when govermnent family planning officers were responsible for payments of field nutrition
staff in the 'government-run and NGO-assisted' model and rectified these by giving NGOs the
responsibility for payments. Another example is the testing of efforts focussed on newly married couples
and iron folate supplementation of adolescent girls. This gradual, informed and tested phasing could be of
immeasurable value to projects, particularly in the social sectors.
*      Another example of the learning environment, and a strong feature of the Project was the inclusion
of operational research. The studies financed by the Project were based on identified issues, and on data
collected within the Project itself. Their reports facilitated the application of knowledge in a timely manner
within the Project, and its spread to other efforts.
*      Short-term solutions need to be carefully weighed against long-term needs, and the
introduction ofparallel strategies against systemic changes. An important example from the Project that
illustrates both these sets of choices is the decision to provide additional antenatal services through CNPs.
The Project's goals would most likely have been served better by attention to improving the performance of
health and family welfare clinics given responsibility for antenatal care.
*      Integration requires complementary and coordinated approaches. Project design called for
community nutrition services by NGOs to be complemented by inter-sectoral efforts to increase household
food security, managed by other ministries and NGOs. This coordination proved difficult. Not only was
the ministry/NGO different but a different 'message' was communicated through the activity and a
different range of inputs was involved which confounded implementation and reduced its effectiveness.
*      Careful timing of the scaling-up of a successful project to a more ambitious program is
the key to ensuring institutionalization of activities and their sustainability. Successful initiatives
need to be consolidated before they are expanded and limited govemrnent and Bank capacities call
for attention and resources be distributed wisely across activities.
*     A good Procurement Management System is crucial to efficient project implementation. In
order to ensure an effective Procurement Management System, procurement capacity of the implementing
agency should be addressed adequately at the time of project preparation. Adequate emphasis should be
given to ensure a core procurement team consisting of trained and experienced procurement staff.
Arrangements should also be ensured to retain the procurement staff with the project throughout the project
period. Requirement of Procurement Plan and its yearly update with the Bank's prior review should be
mandated through the credit agreement. In addition, when working in future projects it is important to take
into account disbursement problems that may delay payment and cause the loss of important partners.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In its Project Completion Report (PCR) and comments to the Bank, the Borrower has stressed the
Project's achievement of nutritional improvements, including reduction in moderate malnutrition and
micro-nutrient related problems, birth-weight improvements and pregnancy weight gain. It has also pointed
out coverage and service delivery achievements, and reductions in infant and maternal mortality. The PCR
cites improved knowledge of nutrition and changed behavior among the people of Bangladesh as a major
impact of the Project, brought about through mass media efforts, and avers that these changes are the basis
for the Project's sustainability. It suggests that the Project has contributed to poverty alleviation through
its impact on nutrition and through the generation of employment for about 150,000 CNOs, CNPs and
- 16 -



women organized into groups. This engagement, and some improvements in access to micro-credit under
the poultry scheme, are seen to have empowered women, with a spillover effect to other areas such as
increased women's participation in local government. The GOB has also commented that the cooperation
between Government and non-government organizations was effective. The PCR also mentions
environmental improvements achieved through home gardening, improved sanitary practices and health
education. Among problems, the GOB listed the delay in awarding of the IEC contract as having hampered
communication activities in the field, disruptions in some CNCs during the 1998 flood, and the levying of
income and VAT taxes on the NGO contracts by the Audit directorate that resulted in delayed payments
during calendar 2002. They also mentioned that they found Bank guidelines onerous and the procurement
section of the Bank office under-staffed. On the whole, the PCR states, " This is a very successful
innovative project..." and suggests that it be continued "in the present or modified form for at least ten
years," giving legitimacy to the NNP.
Some additional comments were recieved from the MOHFW on the draft ICR. They correctly
advocate caution in the interpretation of project monitoring data on nutritional status and behavioural
change. They also express concem that the 'GOB-run and NGO-assisted model', which research had
shown to be lower cost and potentially more sustainable, had been dropped in favor of NGO-run model.
However, this was because the latter was found to run more smoothly and effectively. The MOHFW
comments highlight that the Project was able to train and motivate women with little schooling as CNOs
and CNPs to provide social services, and that the GOB helped to develop the capacity of NGOs in training
and social mobilization. Finally, they point out that messages 'on the ground' were consistent and
coordinated, and that the messages and lessons of the Project could be spread through school children to
combat malnutrition sustainably.
(Z) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments were received from a number of partner NGOs in writing and/or at meetings held with
them at various stages of project completion. Generally, the NGOs felt that the partnership model was
good, and community participation excellent. The Project was well accepted in the target communities and
had significant achievements such as the reduction in severe malnutrition and changes in eating habits.
They felt that the spread of 'the nutrition message' was more important in reducing malnutrition than
management of malnutrition per se. They felt that supplementary feeding had wrongly over-emphasized in
the Project. Increased nutrition awareness was accompanied by communities "knowing what to do" and by
confidence among health providers. An important NGO has commented that improvement in mother's
nutrition was due not only to intensive nutrition education but also to provision of ante-natal care by
CNOs. The NGOs felt that referral to the health system worked well for ante-natal care, but that
micro-nutrient supplements were often not available and health workers did not perform well on growth
monitoring or care of the malnourished. They believe that the innovative adolescent girls' and newly-wed
couple schemes contributed to women's empowerment and social change, in addition to nutritional
improvements. The NGOs mentioned that the Bank's main contribution to the Project (in addition to
financing) was increasing nutrition knowledge in the country, and encouraging documentation of knowledge
and experience. They considered it an advantage to have a country-based task manager (acknowledgedly
with a "tough coordination job") but felt that not enough pressure had been put on the Project during the
first two years.
On the less positive side, lack of technical personnel in and, hence, inadequate supervision by the
Project Office, irregular fund flows, delays in procurement and logistical support, inadequate recognition
and support from high officials and decision-makers in the GOB, insufficient attention from lower-level
- 17 -



officials in the field, lack of dissemination of information about the Project -- and particularly of its
successful features, and poor coordination between inter-sectoral and community nutrition activities were
mentioned most frequently. The NGOs felt that the project should have invested more in the training of
committee members and in securing the participation of elected representatives at the upazila, union and
village levels. Other suggestions for improvement include raising the salaries of CNOs and CNPs to allow
them to work full time, strengthening the managerial and decision-making abilities of CNPs, preparation of
an 'exit strategy' with NGOs handing the program over to local govemments, increasing the involvement of
men in the program. For the future, the NGOs felt strongly that a Project Office should have a "90
percent" non-govemmental character, and that training and communications activities must receive greater
attention.
10. Additional Information
None.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
-   ^p .  Indicator/Matrix.,  ..           Projected in last PSR                  .,.,' ',test EstLate;m.,.
Severe and moderate malnutrition reduced by Severe - 8%                       Severe -1%, moderate - 15%
40% and 25% respectively of the baseline  Moderate - 24%
levels. Baseline levels were 13% and 32%,
respectively
Low birth weight reduced by half of the  20%                                  18%
baseline level. Baseline level was 40%.
Parents knowledge and pracbtces regarding  70%                               41%
child care improved: exdusive breasffeeding
up to 5 month, basline level was 10%
Output Indicators:
Indicator/lMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                - ActuaULate'it!EsUmate
National Nutrition Component           Capacity developed in identified institufions  Capacity not yet developed
(a) complebon of review of major nabonal
level institutions
(b) Development of an operational research  All 18 operabons research completed and  Studies completed; some results utilized
strategy                               some of the results utilised
Community Nutbition Component          100%                                   95%
(c) 80% of the village nutntion committees
actve and taking decisions
(d) 80% of the Community Nutrition Centres  100%                              90%
are functioning effectively
(e) Women's group prepare and supply   100%                                   100%
supplementary food
(f) 80% of 0-24 month children covered by  95%                                94%
Growth Monitoring and Promoton
Inter-Sectoral Nutntion Component      No indicators specified                not applicable
End of project
-19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Apprailsal  Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million  US$ million
National Level Nutrition Activities              19.00          18.44         99.7
Conmnunity Based Nutrition Component             32.60         32.31            99
Inter-Sectoral Nutrition Program Development      7.00          6.54            93
Total Baseline Cost                              58.60         57.29
Physical Contingencies                           3.60          3.41           94.7
Price Contingencies                              5.10           5.04         98.82
Total Project Costs           67.30         65.74
Total Financing Required           67.30         65.74
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB         otb2         N.B.F:    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    2.16         5.03        2.75         0.00        9.94
(2.16)      (4.03)       (2.75)       (0.00)      (8.94)
3. Services                 0.00        0.00         42.16        0.00       42.16
(0.00)      (0.00)       (39.36)      (0.00)     (39.36)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        14.60        0.60        15.20
(0.00)      (0.00)       (11.52)      (0.00)     (11.52)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    2.16         5.03        59.51        0.60        67.30
(2.16)      (4.03)       (53.63)      (0.00)     (59.82)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB         Other2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.20         1.75        1.55        0.00        3.50
(0.20)      (1.65)       (1.45)      (0.00)       (3.30)
3. Services                 0.00        0.00        51.96        0.00        51.96
(0.00)      (0.00)       (46.22)      (0.00)     (46.22)
- 20 -



4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.55           9.73           0.00           10.28
(0.00)         (0.46)         (8.65)         (0.00)         (9. 11)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.20           2.30           63.24          0.00          65.74
(0.20)         (2.11)         (56.32)        (0.00)        (58.63)
u Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (X)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
F'roject Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
Bank       Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.      CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
National Level Nutrition  16.90      2.20                 16.20      2.74               95.9   124 5
.ctivities
Community Based           29.60      3.00                 29.40      2.91               99.3    97.0
Irutrition Component
I nter-Sectoral Nutrition  6.25      0.75                 6.00       0.54               96.0    72 0
E rogram Development
l'otal Baseline Cost      52.75      5.95                 51.60      5.69               97 8    95.6
Physical Contingencies     3.20      0.40                 3.11       0.30               97.2    75.0
F rice Contigencies       3.95       1 15                 3.92       1.12               99 2    97.4
'otal Project Costs       59.90      7.50                 58.63      7.11               97.9    94.8
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not calculated
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 1993                   S   Population and Health,
Management, Economist,
Procurement, Operations Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
January 1994                 5   Population and Health,
Public Health, Management
(2), Team Leader
March 1994                   4   Population and Health, Legal,
Procurement, Operations Analyst
Supervision
06/30/1995                       PSR initial Summary                              S
03/07/1996                   5   Procurement; Matemal & Child       U             S
Health; Public Health; PHN
(Mission Leader); Management
09/29/1996                   4   PHN/Technical; Management          S             S
(M/Leader); Nutrition/Technical;
Procurement
05/13/1997                   3   Procurement; Mission Leader;       S             S
Nutrition/Technical
12/17/1997                   4   Procurement; Disbursement;         S             S
Audit and Finance; Mission
Leader
07/30/1998                   6   Management; Team Leader;           S             S
Procurement Specialist;
Disbursement Specialist;
Financial management specialist,
Inter Sectoral and WID
11/22/1999                   3   Task Leader; Operations Officer;   S             S
Operations Analyst
07/20/2000                   5   Nutrition; Operations Officer;     S             S
Operations Analyst;
Procurement; Financial
Management
05/17/2001                   8   Task Leader; Operations;           S             S
Training; Procurement;
Disbursement; Financial
Management; Management,
M&E
05/23/2002                   8   Mission Leader; Technical;         S             S
Training; Financial
Management, Disbursement;
- 23 -



Procurement; Social, Public
Health
ICR
09/28/2002                  4    Social Development (2);
Economist (Task Team
Leader) (1); Operations
Officer (1)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             122.3                       398.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                   11.4                        30.7
Supervision                            292.3                       409.1
ICR                                       10                         60
Total                                    436                       898.4
-24-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM       S N   O NA
D Physical                               OH OSU-M ON ONA
FII Financial                            O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
El Institutional Development             O H  O SU *M     O N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM       S N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H   OSU*M      O N   O NA
L Gender                           O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Other (Please specif)           OH    *SUOM      ON    O NA
Community driven development
Involvement of NGOs
FIi Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M    0 N   S NA
LI Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)                O H  O SU O M    S N   0 NA
Intersectoral Coordination
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
rO Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
OII Overall                                         OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       0 U   O HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS       0  U  O HU
-26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
S.No.                    Title                         Prepared by             Date
1.    Baseline Survey Final Report              Mitra and Associates
2.    Health and Nutrition Baseline Survey of 44 Rural Institute of Nutrition and  January 1998
Thanas in Bangladesh -- Final Report       Food Science, Dhaka;
Department of Statistics,
Dhaka University; and
National Institute of
Preventive and Social
Medicine
3.    Mid-Term Evaluation, 1998                  Institute of Nutrition and  March 1999
____                                             Food Science, Dhaka
4.    Review of Information, Education and       World Bank Consultant --  December 1998
Communication Component for Mid-Term       Marcia Griffiths, The Manoff
Review                                     Group, Inc.
5.    Management Review Report for Mid-Term      World Bank Consultant --  November 1998
Review                                     James A. Greene
6.    List of 18 Completed Operations Research   BINP office
Projects
7.    Results from the Bangladesh Integration Nutrition Centre for Health and  November 1999 -
Project's Operation Research Project (ORP)  Population Research,    August 2000
ols. I -V                                ICDDRB
8.    Proposal for Endline Evaluation            Institute of Nutrition and  May 2002
Food Science, Dhaka
9.    Pre-appraisal mission report               The World Bank           March 1993
10.   Pre-appraisal mission report               The World Bank           January 1994
11.   Project Proforma                           Ministry of Health and   April 1995
Family Welfare, Government
of Bangladesh
12.   Staff Appraisal Report                     The World Bank           April 1995
13.  Memorandum and Recommendation of the        The World Bank           April 1995
President to the Executive Directors
14.   Development Credit Agreement               The World Bank           June 1995
15.  Project Implementation Volume               Ministry of Health and   May 1996
Family Welfare, Government
-of Bangladesh
16.   Proposal for Amendment of Development Credit  Ministry of Finance,  April 2001
Agreement                                  Government of Bangladesh
17.   Aide-Memoires of Supervision Missions for the  The World Bank
Integrated Nutrition Project
First Supervision Mission                                            April 29, 1996
Second                                                               Sept. 29, 1996
Third                                                                May 13, 1997
ourth                                                              Dec. 31, 1997
ifth                                                               August 17, 1998
Sixth/Mid-Term Review                                                May 26, 1999
-27-



Seventh                                                           Nov. 22, 1999
Eighth                                                            July 20, 2000
Ninth                                                              May 29, 2001
Tenth                                                             May 23, 2002
18.  Project Status Reports for the Bangladesh  The World Bank
Integrated Nutrition Project: Sequence No. I                      June 30, 1995
2                                        March 28, 1996
3                                        June 13, 1996
4                                        October 17, 1996
5                                        May 20, 1997
6                                        January 26, 1998
7                                        August 27, 1998
8                                        May 23, 1999
9                                        January 3, 2000
10                                        June 18, 2000
11                                        Sept. 17, 2000
12                                        March 15, 2001
13                                        June 25, 2001
14                                        Dec. 11, 2001
15                                        June 12,2002
19.  Lessons Learned in the Bangladesh Integrated  AFM Iqbal Kabir and F.  June 2002
Nutrition Project (Draft)                 James Levison,
20.  Bangladesh: Breaking the Malnutrition Barrier  The World Bank      December 2001
_ Key to Development
21.   Technical Assistance on Assessing the Effects of Policy Planning Branch,  August 1996
Agricultural Policies and Programs on Food  Ministry of Agriculture,
_ Consumption and Nutrition               Government of Bangladesh
22.   Household Food Security Through Nutrition  Ministry of Agriculture,  1996
_ Gardening (A Sub-project of BINP)       Government of Bangladesh
23.  Report of the Analysis of Nutritive Values of Food Institute of Nutrition and  April 1997
Items Supplied from Six BINP Thanas       Food Science,
24.  Annual Report July 2001-June 2002          BINP and BRAC           June 2002
25.  Treading Water: Long-Tern Impact of the 1998  IFPRI and The World Bank October 14, 2002
Flood on Nutrition in Bangladesh                      _
26.  Identification Mission Aide-memoire for the  The World Bank         August 1998
N_ ational Nutrition Project
27.  Project Appraisal Document of National Nutrition The World Bank    April 2000
Project
28.  Aide-Memoires of National Nutrition Project  The World Bank
First Supervision Mission                                          May 2001
Second                                                             April 2002
Third                                                              October 2002
29.  Contracting for Health Services: Lessons from  Ben Loevinsohn, The World June 3, 2002
___ Two Large Projects in Bangladesh (Draft)   Bank
30.  Poverty in Bangladesh: Building on Progress  PREM Sector Unit, South  June 2002
Asia, The World Bank
-28 -












Type:    fCR
R eo4N o.:         25183



