Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2735 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Nutrition Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 6, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2735 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1995, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MOHFW" means the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Borrower;
Page  2
(b)
"IEC" means Information, Education and Communication efforts to improve 
people's knowledge, attitudes and behaviors which have an effect on nutritional 
status, through messages delivered through a variety of media, including mass media, 
inter-personal approaches and audio-visual aids;
(c)
"IEC activities" means activities which deliver IEC messages to the 
population targeted for the desired improvements in knowledge, attitudes and 
behaviors;
(d)
"IEC materials" means materials, such as posters, videos, pamphlets, 
booklets and brochures, specifically designed, developed and produced for IEC;
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"TK" or "Taka" means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
(g)
"FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending June 
30 of each year; and
(h)
"Thana" means an administrative unit of the Borrower; 
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 40,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Taka a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
Page  3
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2005 and ending April 1, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and nutrition practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
Page  4
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the 
Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672797 SETU BJ
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  5
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ K. M. Ejazul Huq
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                     Amount of the
                                   Credit Allocated                % of
                                     (Expressed in               Expenditures
       Category                     SDR Equivalent)             to be Financed
(1)    Goods (other than                 4,090,000              100% of foreign
       therapeutic food                                         expenditures
       supplements and                                          100% of local
       IEC Materials)                                           expenditures
                                                                (ex-factory
                                                                cost) and 80%
                                                                of local ex-
                                                                penditures for
                                                                other items pro-
                                                                cured locally
(2)    Therapeutic food                 12,650,000              100% in FY 1996
       supplements                                              through FY 1998;
                                                                90% in FY 1999 and 
    FY 2000; 80% in 
FY 
    2001 and
                                                                thereafter
 (3)    IEC Materials                      1,300,000            100% of foreign
                                                                expenditures
                                                                100% of local
                                                                expenditures
                                                                (ex-factory
                                                                cost) and 80%
                                                                of local ex-
                                                                penditures for
                                                                other items
                                                                procured
                                                                locally
Page  6
(4)    Consultants'                       8,580,000             100%
       services, studies
       and training
(5)    IEC Activities                    2,420,000              100%
(6)    Incremental                       7,070,000              100% in FY
       operating costs                                          1996 through
                                                                FY 1998;
                                                                90% in FY 1999
                                                                and FY 2000; 80%
                                                                in FY 2001 and
                                                                thereafter
(7)    Unallocated                      3,990,000
              TOTAL                    40,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means recurrent costs such as 
costs of fuel, maintenance of vehicles and equipment, cleaning of community nutrition 
centers, miscellaneous supplies and honoraria for community nutrition promoters and 
community nutrition organizers; and
(d)
the term "therapeutic food supplements" means the specially prepared 
dietary mixture made from locally available foodstuffs to be used for the 
supplementary feeding of malnourished women and children as part of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR340,000, may be made in respect of  Categories (1) and (4) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1995.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services under 
contracts not exceeding the equivalent of (i) $200,000 for goods; (ii) $100,000 for 
the services of consulting firms; and (iii) $50,000 for the services of individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to initiate the development of a national 
nutrition program in Bangladesh.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
National Level Nutrition Activities
 
1.
Program Development and Institution Building
 
Development of an effective national nutrition program through coordination of 
national expertise on the subject, with a view to ensuring complementarity amongst all 
institutions.
2.
Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
 
The development and coordination at the national level of appropriate nutrition 
Page  7
messages and material, including audience research to understand the cultural and 
behavioral aspects relevant to nutrition.
3.
Strengthening Existing Nutrition Activities
 
Strengthening the coverage and effectiveness of existing programs which address 
different types of malnutrition.
4.
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
 
The establishment of (i) an effective Project Office under MOHFW; and (ii) a 
robust system of Project monitoring and evaluation, including baseline surveys, and 
mid-term and final evaluations.
Part B:
Community-Based Nutrition Component (CBNC)
 
1.
Establishment and operation of a Community Nutrition Center (CNC) in each 
village/community in selected thanas, to serve as the focus for community 
mobilization, growth monitoring, supplementary feeding and counselling, mainly to 
children under two years of age and pregnant and lactating mothers.
2.
Carrying out in at least one thana a pilot program of community mobilization, 
special health and welfare facilities and counselling services for newly married 
couples, and growth monitoring and supplementary feeding of their first child until 
two years of age.
Part C:
Inter-sectoral Nutrition Program Development
 
Establishment and operation of an Inter-sectoral Nutrition Cell (ISNC) and an 
Inter-sectoral Nutrition Fund (ISNF) to support the nutritional reorientation of 
various sectoral activities towards the nutritionally vulnerable population and the 
carrying out of innovative activities in the field.
*       *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
IEC materials shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional procedures.
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior 
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the 
Association's prior approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid 
validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any 
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of IEC materials in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  8
In the procurement of IEC materials in accordance with the procedures described 
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereof.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Vehicles, equipment and supplies may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association, provided, however, that bicycles and other small 
items of equipment, which may be needed on an urgent basis, may be procured through 
the United Nations Children's Fund.
2.
Therapeutic food supplements may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
3.
Training materials, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$500,000, may be procured from one or more suppliers in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
Therapeutic nutrients may be procured from the United Nations Children's Fund 
(UNICEF).
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to 
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix to 
the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
Page  9
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
not later than September 30, 1995, prepare and furnish to the 
Association, for its concurrence, a detailed Implementation and Monitoring Plan for 
the Project; and 
(b)
thereafter, timely carry out said Plan. 
 
2.
The Borrower shall, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association:
(a)
maintain and operate the Project Office with adequate staff, funding and 
other facilities; and
(b)
by September 30, 1995, establish and maintain a management and technical 
support team (MTST) to assist the Project Office by providing the necessary expertise.
3.
For purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
not later than December 31, 1996, carry out a review of the major 
institutions at the national level which are active in nutrition or related fields;
(b)
furnish to the Association the recommendations and the findings of such 
review, for comments by the Association; and
(c)
carry out said recommendations taking into account the Association 
comments thereon.
4.
For purposes of carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
by June 30, 1998, carry out a mid-term evaluation of the Project through 
independent professional experts and in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
establish and carry out a review system for the Project and provide 
progress reports to the Association at the semiannual supervision missions.
5.
For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
enter into an agreement with one or more organizations acceptable to the 
Association, and in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, which will govern such organization or organizations participation in the 
field-level activities under the Project;
(b)
by June 30, 1996 and December 31, 1996, select, in accordance with 
criteria agreed with the Association, the thanas for introducing CBNC activities in 
the third and fourth year of Project execution, respectively; and 
(c)
before commencing CBNC activities in any thana, carry out a baseline 
survey of nutritional status in such thana, such survey to be carried out in 
accordance with terms of reference and methodology satisfactory to the Association.
6.
For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
promptly establish and thereafter operate the ISNF in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association; and
Page  10
(b)
maintain and operate the ISNC and provide it with the authority to clear 
sub-project proposals to be financed through the ISNF, based on criteria agreed with 
the Association, each of such proposals to be subject to prior review and approval by 
the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
TK80,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to TK24,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR2,700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  11
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
       (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
