                                               Documentof
                                           The World Bank



                                                                                      ReportNo: 27336

                                                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                          PROPOSEDLEARNINGAND INNOVATIONCREDIT

              INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR2.1MILLION(US$3 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                                  FORA

                      YOUTHINCLUSIONLEARNING & INNOVATIONCREDIT

                                          NOVEMBER21,2003




Environmentally and Socially SustainableDevelopment
Ukraine, BelarusandMoldovaCountryUnit
Europeand CentralAsia Region




This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective October 15,2003)

                         Currency Unit = Moldovan Lei (MDL)
                                1MDL = US$ 0.07451
                                 US$ 1 = 13.42Lei

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1-    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCP                 Agncultural Pollution Control Project
BTOR                 Back-to-Office Report
C A P M U            Consolidated Agncultural Project Management Unit
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs                 Community BasedOrganizations
C D D                Community DrivenDevelopment
DAs                  Development Agencies
EGRSP                Economic Growth andPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GOM                  Government o f Moldova
ICT                  Information andCommunication Technologies
LFS                  Labor Force Survey
L I C                Leaming andInnovation Credit
LIL                  Learning and Innovation Loan
M & E                MonitoringandEvaluation
MTL                  Multisector Team Leaming
NGO                  Non-governmental Organization
PSC                  Project Steering Committee
PFIs                 Participating Financial Institutions
PMU                  Project Management Unit
PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD I1               Private Sector Development Project I1
RISP                 Rural Investment Services Project
SME                  Small andMedium Enterprise
STNA                 Skills andTraining Needs Assessment
TA                   Technical Assistance
UNICEF               UnitedNations International Children's Fund
V T C                Vocational Training Courses
YIP                  Youth Inclusion Project
YSD                  Youth and Sports Department

                         Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director:      Luca Barbone
                       Sector Manager:      Alexandre Marc
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Carine Clert

                                                                                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                    MOLDOVA
                        YOUTH INCLUSIONLEARNING& INNOVATION CREDIT
                                                                    CONTENTS

      A .LILJustification                                                                                                                           Page
         1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?............................................................................                     2
         2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives andany follow-on operation)?                                               2
         3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise............................                                        3

      B Structureofthe Pilot
        .
         1. H o w will the learning take place?.......................................................................................                3
         2. Outcome-level test to be conducted....................................................................................                    3
         3. Steps Involved inImplementing the Pilot...........................................................................                        4
         4. Learning Expectations to be Documented inthe Pilot........................................................                                4
         5. Triggers for a Follow-on Operation....................................................................................                    4
         6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements..................................................                                    4

      C Components and their ImplementationArrangements
        .
         1. Project components...........................................................................................................             5
         2. Implementation arrangements...........................................................................................                   10
            a. Procurement.................................................................................................................          11
            b. Financial Management.................................................................................................                 12
            c. Other...........................................................................................................................      12

      D Risks
        .
         1. Social and Environmental Risks......................................................................................                     12
            a Safeguard Policies......................................................................................................
              .                                                                                                                                      12
            b. Other social risks........................................................................................................            12
         2. Other Risks......................................................................................................................        13

      E MainLoadcredit Conditions
        .
         1. Effectiveness Conditions..................................................................................................               14
         2. Other...............................................................................................................................     14
      F Readinessfor Implementation..............................................................................................
        .                                                                                                                                            14

      G Compliancewith BankPolicies............................................................................................
        .                                                                                                                                            14

      Annexes
      Annex 1. Project Design Summary.............................................................................................                   15
      Annex 2.  Project Description......................................................................................................            19
      Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs..............................................................................................                29
      Annex 4.  Financial Management.................................................................................................                30
      Annex 5.  Project Processing Schedule.......................................................................................                   33
      Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements...........................................................                                 34
      Annex 7.  Documents inthe Project File.....................................................................................                    42
      Annex 8.  Statement of Loans and Credits..................................................................................                    43
      Annex 9.  Country at a Glance.....................................................................................................            45
      Annex 10. Key Results from the Multisector Team Leaming (MTL)initiative                                                                       47
      Annex 11. Outcome-Based Conceptual Intervention Model                                                                                         48

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                    .
without World Bank authorization                           .

Annex 12. Key Performance Indicators

                                                 MOLDOVA
                        YOUTH INCLUSIONLEARNING& INNOVATIONCREDIT

                                   ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                        Europe andCentralAsia Region
                                                  ECSSD

Date: November 21,2003                                Team Leader: Carine Clert
Sector Managermirector: Alexandre Marc                Sector@): Other social services (50%), Adult
Zountry Managermirector: Luca Barbone                 literacylnon-formaleducation(20%), Vocationaltraining
Project ID: PO82878                                   (15%), Informationtechnology (15%)
Lending Instrument: LearningandInnovationLoan(LIL) Theme@): Participationandcivic engagement(PI, Other
                                                      social development(P), Educationfor the knowledge
                                                      economy(S), Ruralnon-farmincome generation(S),
                                                      Gender (S)



For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $3.00

ProposedTerms (IDA): StandardCredit




[DA
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
BORROWINGCOUNTRY'SFIN.INTERMEDIARYIIES




Borrower: MOLDOVAGOVERNMENT
Republic ofMoldova
Responsibleagency: THE STATE DEPARTMENT FORYOUTH AND SPORTS
Address: Departmentof Youth and Sports, 73 StefanCel Mare Blvd., Chisinau, Moldova
ContactPerson: Mr.SergiuCometski, GeneralDirectoror Mrs. Liliana Palihovich,Headofthe Youth Division
Tel: 373-2-277569 or 277233               Fax: 373-2-277352                 Email: Dtsmoldova@yahoo.comor
Dtscentrutin@mdl.net
EstimatedDisbursements( Bank FY/US$m):




Project implementationperiod: four years
Expectedeffectiveness date: 0413012004    Expected closing date: 1013012008

A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?
The main purpose o f the Learning Innovation Credit (LIC) is to determine (through pilot testing) whether
targeted youth (14-30) from poorlvulnerable rural and pen-urban households in participating local areas
will adopt positive economiclsocial practices and reduce risky behaviors in response to an integrated and
inclusive package o f youth-oriented services and opportunities.

Positive economic practices refer to youth investing in skills and assets leading to better wage and
self-employment opportunities. Positive social practices refer to youth using assets, safe spaces and
opportunities which will help them: (a) cope with or avoid risky behaviors (substance abuse, violence,
illegal migration with exposure to exploitation); and (b) participate actively in the design and
implementation o f activities which can make a positive contribution to their own problems and to those o f
their communities.

Why the pilotinp? Conducted inthe context o f the Multisector Team Learning program (MTL), previous
social analysis has shown the multidimensionality o f youth poverty and exclusion. Their disadvantage
derives from lack o f access to assets in three inter-related dimensions: (i)    economic (assets leadmg to
income generation); (ii)social (access to information; social capital, free-time activities; care and
guidance); and (iii) participation indecision-makmg. As a result, youth poverty covers income dimensions,
as young women and men experience exclusion from the labor market and self-employment opportunities.
They rarely possess assets which could serve as collateral and so they have little access to credit.
However, youth poverty also covers non-income dimensions i.e. vulnerability and empowerment-related
dimensions. Youth were found to experience isolation, vulnerability, powerlessness, idleness (due to lack o f
free-time activities) all o f which encourages risky behaviors such as drug addiction or engagement inillegal
activities. These phenomena tend to be particularly acute inrural and small towns (See Annex 10 for social
analysis findings).

These findings clearly point to the limitations o f a sole reliance on sectoral approaches. Thus far, an
integrated approach has not been tested in Moldova and this is why learning is needed. The integrated
package will entail developing partnerships between different service providers and synergies between three
inter-related types o f interventions in selected regions: (a) economic approach, creating enabling conditions
for facilitating access o f youth to skills and assets leading to better economic participation; (b) support to
initiatives for promoting youth empowerment and reducing their vulnerability; and (c) institutional
approach, developing the capacity o f a network o f govemment and civil society partners to address youth
exclusion inan integrated manner.

2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?
Documentnumber: 24113-MD                    Date of latest CAS discussion: 0612012002
This document i s a CAS Progress Report. The last full CAS was in 1999, and a new CAS i s due in late
FY04.

The results o f the pilot will fillan important knowledge gap with respect to the cost andviability o f specific
interventions that have been put forward to reduce youth exclusion in Moldova, and which may influence
andmodify the attitudes andbehaviors o fyouth ina positive way.

The latest CAS discussion does not explicitly refer to the need to support youth inclusion. However, a
related country-level goal will be to strengthen human and social capital necessary for growth and poverty



                                                       - 2 -

reduction, and reduce youth poverty inboth its income and non-income dimensions (reduce vulnerability,
increased empowerment).

Finally, there is llkely to be a direct and explicit link between demonstrated success inyouth inclusion and
the Moldovan government's Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (EGPRSP),
which will inform the hture Bank Country Assistance Strategy. Section 5.7.2 on Youth Policy inthe latest
version o f the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) (September 2003) identifies youth not only as a
"vulnerable social category which has been particularly affected by Transition" but also as "a valuable
economic and social potential". Focus i s put on three "priority" areas o f action: (a) "increase access to
information and (youth-friendly) services", through a wide range o f actions ("national network of youth
service centers", "promotion o f special programs for disadvantaged youth and at risk youth"); (b) "reduce
unemployment among young people" trying to create opportunities both in self and wage employment; and
(c) ''increase the degree o f youth participation in the decision-making process" by stimulating youth
participation in community life", "creating conditions for the cooperation o f youth and youth associations
with govemmental structures for the promotion o f voluntary services as form o f participation and social
integration".

3. Other countriesor situationswhere similar effortshaveshownpromise.

Thus far only two other countries, Macedonia and Colombia, have used LILs as an instrument to test new
approaches to youth. In South East Europe, the FYR Macedonia Youth Development LIL i s testing
community-based approaches to support youth at risk, prevent their marginalization and reduce their
exposure to abuse. The Macedonia LIL draws on a successful post-conflict grant with UNICEF, which
has already shown a positive impact on preventing some risky behaviors associated with idle drop-out
youth.    However, the Macedonia LIL does not incorporate a pro-youth employment component, as
contemplated for Moldova.

InColombia, the fully decentralizedproject approach (sub-contracting by local govemment) is not parallel
to the current Moldova context. However, the two guiding principles are instructive, namely that: (i)     the
sub-projects were to be integrated responses to a perceived youth problem (street gang violence, training
opportunities for unschooled youth); and (ii)   they were to be implemented and evaluated in a participatory
framework. The Moldova LILpreparation benefited from the evaluation o f this project.

B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learningtake place?

The learning will take place through a structured pilot designed to document the responses o f Moldavan
youth to an integrated and inclusive package o f services and support. The pilot will be deemed ready for
replication or scale-up if it is shown that the integrated and inclusive package being offered is effective in
eliciting the expected positive responses from Moldovan youth (and in reducing risky behaviors) in a
cost-effective manner.

2. Outcome-leveltest to be conducted

The pilot will test to what extent targeted youth (age 14-30) from poor/vulnerable rural and peri-urban
households in participating local areas actually adopt positive economic and social practices (and reduce
risky behaviors) as expected, in response to the integrated and inclusive package o f services and
opportunities that are being offered under the LIL.




                                                       - 3 -

3. Steps involvedin conductingthe pilot

The pilot will utilize the following general steps (which may be further elaborated inan experimental design
plan):


         (a)       identify relevant target areas and sub-group pools for each component'sub-component;


         (b)      select subgroup participants from each available pool and gather baseline data on
participating individuals via standard interview format;


         (c)      manage project activities in a participatory manner, taking into account suggestions from
                  the participating NGOs and other service providers and sub-group participants themselves;


         (d)      conduct a mid-term review o f progress (reflecting on the likely validity o f the original
intervention models) after the first full year o f activities;


         (e)      verify satisfactory delivery o f project outputs using outside technical audit;

         (f)      periodically measure response o f subgroup participants to project outputs as per the
                  intervention model for each componenthb-component (see dlagram Annex 11); and


         (g)      Analyze andreport LILresults.

4. Learningexpectationsto be documentedinthe pilot
IXI Economic        IxiTechnical        IxiSocial             IXI Participation
IXI Financial       IXIInstitutional    0Environmental 0 Other

5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
A follow-on operation would bejustified ifit is shown that the package of services and opportunities being
offered is effective ineliciting the expected positive responses from Moldovan youth (and inreducing risky
behaviors) ina cost-effective manner.

6. Results-basedMonitoring and EvaluationSystem

The M&E system will be further developed early inproject implementation. The results-based conceptual
framework is attached inannex 11 and key performance indicators are provided inannex 12.

The M&E system will not only document changes inthe behavior and perceptions o f participating youth in
response to the integrated package o f services, but will also document changes in behaviors, perceptions
and practices o f service-providers and stakeholders in key project-relevant areas. This may include the
private sector, financial institutions, communities, state officials and youth serving NGOs, central andlocal
government inselected regions. Inaddition to the M&E system set up by the Youth and Sports Department
(YSD) at central level, biannual regional learning fora will be organized so as to document findings and
recommend actions based on stakeholder feedback. Youth specialists responsible for the project supervision
will be trained inmonitoring shlls and youth-serving NGOs. Most importantly, the M&E system will be
designed so as to include mechanisms to learn from results o f project activities and improve the project
package during project duration. Finally, participatory instruments for the M&E system will be developed
so as to ensure that youth direct beneficiaries can monitor project activities themselves.



                                                         - 4 -

C. Project Components and ImplementationArrangements
1. LILComponents
(See Annex 2 for a detaileddescriptionof components and Annex 3 for estimatedproject costs)

A Regional,Multi-PartnerApproach.
The project strategy o f integration o f economic, social and institutional approaches to youth inclusion is
relatively new to the Moldovan context and synergies are more likely to occur and produce results if they
are concentrated geographically. Therefore, the project will pilot this approach in a limited number o f
regions (ruions) o f Moldova, taking into account the following criteria: (a) illustrative geographic coverage
(North, South and Center); (b) presence o f a fairly large number o f private businesses; and (c) synergies
with UNICEF activities, particularly the establishment o f regional resource youth centers which will be
critical for the integration o f different project activities (See Component 1.1). An agreement was reached
to select the five following districts or ruions: Cahul, Orhei, Belts, Soroca, and Ungheni. Some activities
will still be implemented at a national level, such as the institutional andpolicy development activities.

The integrated and inclusive package o f youth oriented services and opportunities will be delivered through:
(i) improving the responsiveness o f key public and private service providers to the needs, interests and
potentials o f young people, with a particular focus on the most disadvantaged; and (ii)strengthening
partnership among them. As outlined below, each proposed component tends to focus on particular service
providers: local government and community-based associations, through a network o f regional youth
centers and civil society initiatives (component One); providers in the economic and financial sectors
(component Two) and state public sector (component Three).              Component four specifically addresses
project implementation support.

COMPONENT 1.               YOUTH-FRIENDLY SPACES & INNOVATIVE SERVICE DELWERY

This component will directly address non-income dimensions o f youth poverty and social exclusion such as
powerlessness (often linked with lack o f information and isolation); vulnerability and exposure to risky
behaviors (e.g.drug abuse, alcoholism) due to idleness and lack o f spaces for safe and constructive
free-time activities; and gender-specific dimensions o f vulnerability such as domestic violence. Indirect
outcomes on income-dimensions o f poverty are also expected to occur as youth-serving spaces and civil
society initiatives will be encouraged to provide skills enhancement activities leading to possible future
income-generation activities.

This component includes two sub-components: (i) establishment o f a network o f regional youth-friendly
                                                       the
centers; and (ii) a competitive grants program for youth-serving civil society associations to promote their
creative initiatives for youth's socio-economic inclusion and empowerment (increased social capital and
participation indecision-making).

Sub-component1.1EstablishmentofRegionalYouth-Friendly Centers

Mainly through UNICEF contribution (with support from the Dutch government), this subcomponent will
finance the establishment o f a network o f resource centers and youth-friendly spaces for: (i)safe and
constructive free-time activities; (ii)skills enhancement (life skills, computer and Information and
Communication Technology (ICTs) skills); (iii)orientation, guidance & counseling on youth-relevant
subjects (including professional orientation/ counseling for young parents); and (iv) distribution and sharing



                                                        - 5 -

o f information on youth trends, opportunities and services for youth, and training facilities and resources
for youth service providers. These resource and multi-service centers will have a critical role in: (i)
facilitating the integration o f the pro-youth employment and social activities supported by the Project (by
acting as points o f referral for instance); (ii)strengthening synergies and networlung among all existing
youth oriented initiatives and services; and (iii)  offering logistic support and consultation to youth NGOs
and non-associated young people. The centers are to be established in close cooperation with the YSD,
local authorities and youth NGOs. Three centers are already functioning: the National Youth Resource
Center, the Youth Media Center inChisinau andthe Regional Resource Center inBiesti (Orhei).

There will be local government co-financing for rehabilitation costs and salaries o f educators. Equipment,
computers and intemet access will be set up in all the centers (with specificities according to each center's
needs). Activities will be developed around counseling, life skills, computer and language slulls. Under this
component, training materials for educators will also be developed.

A small contribution from IDA funds will be made to ensure that the regional centers can carry out a
sufficient number o f mobile activities so as to reach out to a greater number of youth. This will be done by
financing a portion o f operating expenditures for the exclusive implementation o f mobile activities and as
based on semi-annual or annual budgets which will be sent to the PIU for review and approval.

Sub-component 1.2: Support to Civil Society Initiatives for Youth Economic and Social Inclusion

Under this sub-component, activities will build on the approach developed through the competitive small
grants pilot program for local youth-serving associations, w h c h was successfully implemented by the
Youth and Sports Department (YSD) between September 2002 through May 2003 (under the Norwegian
Community Driven Development Trust fund). Support to civil society initiatives for youth economic and
social inclusion will be provided through a competitive grant scheme which has the following objectives: (i)
to reduce the isolation o f youth by stimulating the creation o f and supporting youth initiative groups; (ii)
                                                                                                             to
create opportunities for the prevention and mitigation o f youth vulnerability and risky behaviors by the
promotion and provision o f innovative economic and social services, especially in rural areas and small
towns; (iii) to strengthen capacities o f youth-serving NGOs and CBOs; and (iv) to improve communication,
cooperation andtrust between governmental andnon-governmental partners.

This subcomponent will finance: (a) subprojects; (b) technical assistance for capacity-building ,aiming at
strengthening the capacity for innovative service delivery to youth, especially the most disadvantaged; and
(c) specific promotion activities for the Grants program.

Sub-Proiect Financing: There will be three different lines o f grants which are defined according to
proposed themes and activities, amount o f the proposals andtype o f eligible applicants:


          (1)     Line 1, will specifically respond to the need o f young people living invillages, small towns
                  and other isolated areas o f the 5 raions, where no youth-fhendly spaces are available nor
                  accessible for adolescents and young adults. The planned and existing regional youth
                  centers under Sub-component 1.1 cannot adequately reach out to villages and other
                  isolated communities. These youth spaces will become part o f the systemic network o f
                  information, training and support provided by the regional resource centers. Grants will
                  range from USD 3,000 to 10,000 and will be eligible to proposal for activities to be
                  delivered in small youth-hendly spaces in villages by NGOs and CBOs with more than
                  one-year experience;



                                                       - 6 -

          (2)    Line 2, will range from USD 1,000 to 4,000 and will be eligible to proposals for: (i)       the
                 development o f outreach programs for particularly disadvantaged and at risk youth (e.g.,
                 school drop-outs, youth with insufficient parental supervision, or from dysfunctional
                 families, etc.); (ii)skills building for economic inclusion (e.g. entrepreneurial skills;
                 studying o f foreign languages; application o f modem information technologies (ICTs); job
                 search skills, includingjob applications, interviews, C.V. writing etc.); (iii)
                                                                                              activities for the
                 prevention o f risky behaviors: organization o f safe free-time activities for leisure, sports
                 and entertainment; (iv) information and knowledge sharing on the resources and
                 opportunities available for young people; and (v) counselling activities for young families.


          (3)    Line 3,    creation o f youth initiative groups, specifically responds to the needs o f non
                 organized young people to: (i)    form initiatives groups for addressing community andor
                 youth specific problems and (ii)overcome difficulties o f access to funding and
                 capacity-building opportunities. Activities under this grant line include technical assistance
                 o f experienced NGOs for newly formed youth initiative groups            and seed money for
                 selected activities o f these groups under the supervision o f the experienced NGO. Grants
                 have a ceiling o f USD 2,000 and are eligible for legally registered local andnational youth
                 NGOwith experience inyouth development issues and capacity buildingo fnot less than 3
                 years.

The Operational Manual for the proposed project includes a section for the specific procedures which apply
for this sub-component (Scoring criteria for proposals evaluation; selection committee; grants cycle etc.).

Capacity-building for CBOs and NGOs and specific promotion activities are described inAnnex 2.

COMPONENT2.             PRO-YOUTH EMPLOYMENT INITIATIVES

In selected regions, this component will create enabling conditions for unemployed andor precariously
employed adult young women and men to invest in skills and assets leading to better self- and wage
-employment opportunities. While component one mainly focuses on civil society and local government as
service providers, this component concentrates on testing mechanisms to increase responsiveness to and
demand for youth within the financing and the economic sector (financing institutions, enterprises).
Sub-component 2.1 aims at supporting youth entrepreneurship while Sub-component 2.2 focuses on
facilitating youth entry into wage employment.

Sub-component2.1: Supportto YouthEntrepreneurship

This sub-component will pilot an approach to help young adults (18-30 years old) in the creation and
financing o f self-employment opportunities in project selected regions. It is expected that outreach and
basic training should reach over 1,500 potential youth and that the project will facilitate the launch and
financing o f approximately 320 micro-enterprises. Social analysis found that financial institutions tend not
to lend to young people who suffer from a lack o f clear business plan and lack o f collateral. Even
initiatives such as the Rural Investment Services Project (RISP) tend to reach few young women and men.
This sub-component will therefore try to address these issues by: (i)providing business training; (ii)
assisting inthe design and implementation o f a business plan; (iii) rewardingthe best candidates with some
equity buildinggrant; and (iv) linkingthe target population to the formal financial sector.




                                                       - 7 -

Sub-component activities will include: (i)awareness and Training for business plan preparation and
implementation; and (ii) Financing: Awards grant and link to the financial sector.

         (i)     Awareness and Traininp for BusinessPlanPreDarationandImplementation
                 Under the proposed scheme, the subcomponent would use the infrastructure setup by RISP
                 to provide the training, business plan preparation and implementatiodfollow-up o f the
                 micro-enterprise for a period o f up to two years. Development Agencies (DAs) would
                 increase their capacity by an average o f 40%, and adapt their methodology to create
                 approximately 320 enterprises over the four-year period o f the project. Development
                 Agencies are local NGOs which have set up a network o f mobile teams infour regions o f
                 the country to provide similar services in rural and pen-urban areas, visiting their
                 participants in their villages on a regular basis (See Annex 2 for more details). Special
                 (adapted) awareness/communication strategies will be devised so as to reach a maximum
                 o f potential beneficiaries by developing a partnership with a wide range o f regionally based
                 youth service providers mobilized by the project, including the regional youth centers
                 (component l),   youth-serving civil society groups, andmunicipal labor offices.

         (ii)    Financing. The approach being proposed is to help build some small equity as a capital
                 grant which would in turn be used as collateral for the young entrepreneur to be able to
                 access credit from financial institutions. Once a project has been prepared by the DA and
                 has been verified for eligibility criteria, the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
                 would then be able to select the best business proposals based on sustainability and
                 quality.   Such business projects would be financed from three different sources: (i)
                 personal contribution, in cash or in hnd, for approximately 10% o f the total project cost;
                 (ii)capitalgrantwhichwouldbefinancedbytheLILandwouldrepresent50%oftotal
                      a
                 project cost; and (iii)  40% financed by a two-year loan, at normal market rate, by PFIs
                 who would use their own resources not IDA proceeds, or, in the case a PFI is already
                 working with the RISP project, could also use RISP resources if available and if the
                 candidate also meets the RISP eligibility criteria. Related rules and criteria will be clearly
                 laid out in the project's operational manual. During preparation, PFIs were contacted and
                 they indicated that they would be prepared to provide financing under the above
                 conditions.


Sub-component2.2: PartnershipandTrainingfor Employment

The rationale for the design o f this second sub-component builds on the results o f the Multisector team
Learning on youth employment issues (See Annex lo). At macro level, a key barrier to youth employment
i s the overall low level o f labor demand in Moldova. However, at micro-level, various key informants
including enterprises identified additional constraints such as skills mismatches (including technical, but
also attitudinal and behavioral skills). Therefore, a potential scope for reducing skills mismatches as a way
to increase youth access to wage employment can be envisaged.

This sub-component aims at facilitating youth entry into wage employment, through the development o f a
network o f local private businesses, based on a pool o f businesses that have already participated in the
second World Bank financed Private Sector Development (PSD 11) project. The partnership with this
network will allow for exchange o f information on possible skills mismatches or shortages, subsequent
provision o f vocational training courses, internships and mentorship in known job growth categories in
selected project regions.


                                                      - 8 -

The target group for this proposed sub-component will be young people o f age 16-30, not being involved
insecondary education, with no current and previous formal employment experience, and identified as
vulnerable by key informants, including the local Employment Bureau (from the registry o f unemployed),
the Youth and Family department (from the list o f recorded vulnerable households), the local bureau o f
the Ministryo f Education (from the list o f school drop-outs) and the department for the disabled, and other
civil society organizations. Other direct beneficiaries will include legally registered businesses with at
least 3 years existence, facing identified problems o f skills mismatch or skills shortages, and preferably
reportingprofit as o f year ended preceding the project starting year. The rationale for choosing this type o f
business is to ensure that the project will train the youth inan economically viable corporate environment.

This sub-component will finance four main types o f activities:

                A Skills and Training Needs Assessment (STNA), which will consist of a                   rapid
                assessment (qualitative study) o f the network o f selected partner companies to identify
                their needs in terms o f workforce and qualifications and produce results in terms o f
                possible opportunities for young trainees. This study would be implemented at the
                beginning o f the project and repeated after two years, and this in close consultation with
                the Department o f Labor Force and other relevant partners.

                Support to identification of target group-vulnerable youth and outreach promotion,
                by relying on local consultancy service(s) (individuals or youth NGOs) and providing the
                necessary incentives and support for collaborating municipal officials (e.g. per diems for
                field visits etc.).

                Core training or counseling services, which will include professionalorientation(taking
                a test to determine potential professional slulls and literacy), job- searching skills
                enhancement (interview techniques, job searching methods, curriculum-vitae writing,
                self-esteem, career planning).

                Job Specific TrainingPackage. Here the project will finance a demand-driven vocational
                training package which will be designed based on the results o f the STNA. This package
                will include:


                (a)      Vocational Training Courses (VTC) (of a maximum duration o f 4-6 months in
                         institution or on thejob i.e. undertaken directly withinthe enterprises);

                (b)      Internship subsequent to the VTC during a 4 month period offered at the partner
                         enterprises; and

                (c)      Financing o f per-diem o f trainees (for the duration o f VTC) and co-financing with
                         partner enterprises for the duration o f the internship. Amount o f per diem may
                         vary according to sub-groups o f youth. In particular, there will be higher per
                         diems for young mothers so as to address constraints related to childcare.

NB: To the extent possible, the training activities proposedunder this component will be synchronized with
sub-component 1.1 on youth-friendly centers so as to offer an integrated package o f services to youth (e.g.
by combining employment-related services with social services andoverall guidance as applicableheeded),
andthis with a view to maximize the chances o fproject success.




                                                       - 9 -

COMPONENT 3.            INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT.

This component focuses on the state sector as a youth-serving entity and will support:


       (a)      Strategy, policy development and capacity-building in relevant areas.        In particular,
                advisory services will be providedto strengthen the content andthe monitoring o f both the
                recently designed Youth Strategy and its linkages with the EGPRSP, with a focus on main
                policy gaps: strategies and policies to reach and support youth with less opportunities;
                youth employment policies (both entrepreneurship and wage employment) and financial
                dimensions o f youth policy (cost-benefits analysis o f investment inyouth development and
                inclusion).

       (b)      External and internal communication; so as to ensure that all partners at regional and
                national level are mobilized and that all youth can readily avail themselves o f project
                opportunities; promotion and external communication activities will aim at broad
                dissemination o f project options and opportunities, creating awareness and incentives for
                young people to use these opportunities rather than engage inrisky behaviors, and creating
                incentives for key project partners to join and/or stay inthe program.

       (c)      A comprehensive, learning-oriented participatory system o fmonitoring andevaluation.
       A detailed description is providedinannex 2.


COMPONENT 4.            PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONSUPPORT.

This component will finance the necessary activities to ensure successful project implementation within the
expected time, budget andperformance parameters (See Annex 2 for details).




 Delivery
 Component 2- Pro-youth employment initiatives                       3.61        57.9        1.76        58.7
 Component 3- Institutional and Policy Development                   0.41          6.6       0.40        13.3
 Component 4- Project Implementation Support                         0.32          5.1       0.20         6.7
                                          Total Project Costs        6.23        100.0       3.00       100.0
                                 TotalFinancingRequired              6.23        100.0       3.00       100.0




                                                   -10-

2. ImplementationArrangements
The overall organizational structure o f the Youth Inclusion Project (YIP)       will consist of: (i)a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) set up by a Government decision; and (ii)       a Project Implementation Unit (PTU)
responsible for project coordination and technical implementation, to be established within the legal
framework o f the existing Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit (CAPMU).

The Proiect Steering Committee (PSC) will have a central role inproviding guidance on overall project
direction and coordination o f existing efforts inthe areas o f youth inclusion and empowerment relevant to
the project. The PSC will hold bi-annual meetings, review information on the progress o f project activities,
approve annual plans, reports and budgets. Finally, the PSC will be instrumental in ensuring a link
between project activities and policy dialogue on youth inclusion among key public and private
stakeholders and relevant donors-by informing the existing mixed govemment and civil society
Interministerial Group which is currently responsible for overseeing the development o f the national youth
strategy and its linkages with the EGPRSP.

The PSC will be composed o f a maximum o f seven members and will include govemment representatives,
two non-governmental organizations working on youth development and inclusion and one representative
from UNICEF-Moldova. The national NGOs will have at least three years o f experience inyouth policies,
especially inthe various fields o f activity covered by the project and experience in implementation o f youth
project with international donors (e.g. UNICEF, World Bank).

Mixed Regional Proiect Advisory fora. In order to incorporate the views o f the project's selected regions
and inform project implementation and guidance at the regional level, it was agreed that the PIU will
facilitate the establishment o f mixed Regional Project Advisory fora. The fora will have a monitoring and
learning function and will be composed o f representatives from local government, civil society associations
anddirect beneficiaries. Their meetings willheldbefore every national PSCmeeting.

Implementation Structure. There was a common recognition that the success o f the pilot integrated
approach to youth economic and social inclusion in the five selected regions would require a minimum
number o f staff fully dedicated to daily project's coordination, implementation, monitoring and outreach at
community level.       However, the latest CPPR discussions indicated that the GOM wishes to keep
implementation costs as low as possible. Therefore, an agreement was reached to balance cost efficiency
with effectiveness by proposing a mixed implementation structure. As clarified inthe operational manual,
the beneficiary agency for the project, the Youth and Sports Department, agreed that a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established within the legal framework o f CAPMU. CAPMU will
perform fiduciary functions (financial management, procurement, accounting, dlsbursement, relations with
treasury, etc.). It will therefore verify that implementation decisions o f the PIU are in accordance with the
project operational manual and the legal agreement.        CAPMU would also be responsible for ensuring
synergies with other projects under its legal framework (particularly the Rural Investment Services Funds
(RISP).

The PIU will be located in the premises o f the YSD and will be responsible for project coordination and
technical implementation. It will comprise the following staff (a) 4 staff to be financed 100% by the
 Youth Inclusion Project (YIP) funds (one project manager; two program officers; one project assistant for
reporting, translating and administrative support); (b) one program officer financed 50% by YIP funds and
50% by the Rural Investment Services Funds); and (d) two staffwith fiduciary functions (oneprocurement
specialist; oneJinancial management specialist) to befinanced 20% by YIPfunds and the remaining by
RISP and Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP). Inaddition, UNICEF Moldova will contribute to


                                                     -11  -

project support through joint coordination o f activities (especially sub-component 1.1. Establishment o f
Youth Friendly Centers, and component 3. Institutional and Policy Development) and local consultancy
support. The agreed co-financed activities will be under the shared responsibility o f the UNICEF Youth
Development Specialist (permanent UNICEF staff) and the PIU manager.

a. Procurement

The YSD is subject to the Law on Procurement o f Goods, Works and Services for Public Needs (No
1166-XI, dated April 30, 1997) and does not have internal or separate regulations for its own
procurements financed by the Government's budget. This will be the first IDA-financed project o f this
agency, even though they have managed some other projects supported by foreign finance such as the
Norwegian Trust Fund. The YSD is a very small public agency with almost no experience in public
procurement and international procurement.

Bearing in mind that the YSD has no procurement experience and considering CAPMU's past experience
and satisfactory performance in the implementation of Bank-financed projects, and to achieve cost
effectiveness in the management o f Bank financed projects; it is agreed that CAPMU will be responsible
for the implementation o f fiduciary tasks o f the Youth InclusionProject.

The CAPMU procurement specialist will be assigned to work on a part-time basis for the P I U o f the Youth
Inclusion Project. He will be responsible for the preparation o f all procurement related documentation. For
each procurement, a bid evaluation committee will be established with the participation o f following
members: (i)   General Director o f CAPMU; (ii) Manager o f YIP PIU; (iii)
                                                       Project                          Relevant Component
Program Officer; (iv) Representative o f Ministryo f Finance (depending on the type and importance o f the
subject procurement); (v) Representative o f YSD; (vi) Procurement Officer o f CAPMU; and (vii) Chief
Accountant o f the CAPMU.

The decision o f this bid evaluation committee would be final, except when the Bank's no objection for
contracts which are subject to the Bank's prior review would be required, and when no m h e r approval or
registration o f contracts is required. The detailed procurement arrangements are described inAnnex 6.

b. FinancialManagement

The financial management arrangements for the project are acceptable to the Bank. This conclusion is
based on the understanding that administrative and fiduciary functions o f the project will be performed by
CAPMU.

This entity has been successfully assessed as an implementing entity for several other projects. The
CAPMU has prepared chart o f accounts, financial reporting forms for the project and draft financial
management manual. CAMPU adjusted their automated accounting system for the Youth Inclusion Project
needs with a purpose to strengthen financial management arrangements o f the project.

CAPMU's previous and current project financial statements and auditing arrangements were satisfactory
and it has been agreed that these will be replicated for Youth Inclusion Project as well. The annual audited
project financial statements will be provided to the Bankwithin six months o fthe end o f each fiscal year
and also at the closing o f the project. Details o f financial management arrangements, disbursement and
special account operations are provided inAnnex 4.

The PIU has responsibility for coordination and technical implementation o f the project. CAPMU, with the



                                                        -12-

Director, chief accountant and procurement officer, is directly responsible for project fiduciary fhctions
andtherefore responsible for verifying that implementation decisions of the PIUare inaccordance with the
Operational Manual and Credit Agreement. The overall implementation structure is described in the
Operational Manual for the project.

Strengths and Weaknesses

Strengths: The significant strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the project financial management
system include: (i) administration and fiduciary functions will be performed by CAPMU which implements
Bank-financed projects and satisfies Bank financial management requirements.

Weaknesses: Project weaknesses have been addressed.

c. Other



D. Risks
1. Social andEnvironmental Risk
The proposed LIL will not generate any negative environmental impacts. At most, Component One might
include the small rehabilitation o f existing youth spaces (e.g. room painting). The construction o f new
infrastructure will not be eligible as part o f the competitive grants scheme.
a. Safeguard Policies

No safeguard policieswill be triggered as a result o fthe proposed LIL.
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other Social Risks

Duringthe identification missionand previous leaming activities, the mainkey stakeholders such as youth,
communities, families, private sector, youth-serving NGOs, youth-related parliamentary commission and
state officials working inyouth-related field (youth specialists o f the YSD, teachers) expressed great need
and support for the opportunities which could be offered as a result o f the LIL. At higher government
decision-making levels, efforts to include youth inthe development process are also high on the agenda, as
there is tremendous concem about the massive migration o f youth and its costs for youth themselves
(humantrafficlung o fgirls), their communities andfamilies (neglect of small children). The mainsocialrisk
would be for the project to treat youth as a homogeneous group, regardless o f their age, gender, education
level, poverty or family status. In order to mitigate this risk, the participatory regional assessments to be
carried out as part o f the M&E system will take into account the views and needs o f dfferent types o f
youth. Component activities and the project's operational manual have inclusive implementation
arrangements so as to ensure outreach to possibly disadvantaged youth such as young mothers, isolated
rural youth and unemployed drop-outs. In addition, the Bank task team was awarded a GENFUND for
FY04, which secured the contribution o f two intemational experts to help the counterpart with
mainstreaming gender concems inthe project's component activities and operational manual.




                                                      - 13-

2. Other (external, reflectingthe failure ofthe assumptions inthe fourth columnofAnnex 1)
                     Risk                         Risk Ratina                    Risk Mitigation Measure
 :Tom Outputs to Objective
 lespite incentives, a significant                     M             Highemphasis on communication,
 roportion o f youth do not adopt positive                           dissemination of information, awareness-raising,
 :conomic and social practices inselected                            outreach (through system o f referral), sensitivity
 egions i.e. do not invest inthe economic                            to social differences among youth and to the
 md social assets offered by the project                             specific constraints o f the most marginalized;
                                                                     incorporation o f inclusive implementation
                                                                     arrangements so as to facilitate access to project
                                                                     opportunities (e.g. per diem andtransportation
                                                                     compensation for intemships, childcare voucher
                                                                     for young mothers etc; mobile activities; scoring
                                                                     criteria for the evaluation o f grants proposals
                                                                     i.e. higher points to inclusive proposals) and
                                                                     follow-up activities andcounseling.
                                                        M
A significant proportionofyouth                                      Highemphasis oncommunication, preceding
interested inself-employment                                         any micro-enterprise training. Introduction o f
opportunities remains reluctant to                                   the equity buildinggrants (50% of business
participate inthe entrepreneurship                                   project financing)
program



From Componentsto Outputs
2. 01 Financial institution(s) reluctant to             M            Preparation o f youth applicants by the
consider youth applicants                                            experienced Development Agencies (D.As),
                                                                     whose preparatory work is trusted by financial
                                                                     institutions (evidence from institutional
                                                                     assessment and from RTSP experience).
                                                                     Youth's lack o f collateral addressed by the
                                                                     award grant which serves as equity
3.01 Youth-serving private and public                   M            Bi-annual PSC meetings and regional learning
partners do not share knowledge in                                   fora allow to monitor progress and identify
adequate manner.                                                     responses to difficulties.




Overall Risk Rating                                     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri! , M (Modest Risk), I :Negligible or Low Risk)
The above as well as annex 1will be refined c  ing project preparation.




                                                      - 1 4 -

E. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

Approval o f the Operational Manual by the Borrower's appropriate institutionalbody, will be a condition
o f project effectiveness.

2. Other (classifyaccordingto covenant types usedinthe Legal Agreements.)
DatedCovenants:

    0    The Borrower will submit to the Association on or about May 31,2006, a mid-term report
         integrating the results o f the monitoring and evaluation activities performedunder the project.

    0    The Borrower will review with the Association, by August 30,2006, or such later date as the
         Association shall request, the mid-term review report and, take all measures required to ensure the
         efficient completion o fthe Project and the achievement o f the objectives based on the conclusions
         andrecommendations o fthe report.

    0    The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2008 or such later date as the Association will establish.

    0    Commitment charges and service charges will be payable semiannually on June 1and December 1
         ineachyear.

 ProjectImplementation:

         The Borrower will carry out the Project inaccordance with the requirements set forth or referredto
         inthe Operational Manual andthe Development Credit Agreement.

         The Borrower will maintain the P I Uuntilcompletion o f the Project with staff, resources, andterms
         o f reference satisfactory to the Association.

         The Borrower will maintain the CAPMU untilcompletiono f the Project with staff, resources, and
         terms o f reference satisfactory to the Association and shall assign to it the responsibility o f
         performing the fiduciary functions for the Project.

         The Borrower will maintain the PSC untilcompletion o fthe Project, with composition and terms o f
         reference satisfactory to the Association.

         The Borrower will maintain the Operational Manualinform and content at all times satisfactory to
         the Association, and shall ensure inclusion inthe Operational Manual o fprovisions governing the
         activities under the Project.

F. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocuments forthefirst year's activities arecompleteandreadyforthe start
         o fproject implementation.
IXI 1. b) Not applicable.

IXI 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete andready for the start o f
       project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standardbidding


                                                      - 15-

       documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life o f LIL
0 3. TheLIL'sImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealisticandofsatisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowing itemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(Section G):

EPCS informed the task team that a project implementation plan is not required for LILs. The Department
for Youth and Sports did prepare the following documentation: (a) draft operational manual; (b) proposed
implementation schedule; and (c) inputs for the monitoring and evaluation system.

G. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1.Thisproject complieswithallapplicableBankpolicies.
    2. The following exceptions to Bankpolicies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
       all other applicable Bankpolicies.

The Bank's OP 12.20 on Special Accounts limits advance disbursements to special accounts to 10%o f the
loan amount. The client has requested, and the Task Team andLOA agree, that given the competency o f
the CAPMU unit andthe fact that most expenditures will be paid from the special account requiring an
adequate cash flow, the Bankwill allow a special account ceiling o f US$500,000 which represents 17%
o f the LIL amount.




              * /

                                          ~/b@LcikC522J-L
Carine Clert                             Alexandre Marc                          Luca Barbone
Team Leader                              Sector ManagerlDirector                  Country ManagerlDirector




                                                   -16-

                                    Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                 MOLDOVA: YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATION CREDIT
                                      eY                         Data Collection Strategy
                                        I
                               Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:    from Goal to Bank Mission)
                               Significant reduction inthe      joverty assessment (s)      f i e economic and political
social capital necessary for   xoportion of socially and                                    iituation remains stable or
                               xonomically vulnerable           routh surveys (regularly     mprove.
Reduce youth poverty inboth    {outh;                           :onductedby UNICEF)
its income and non-income
dimensions (reduced            mproved indicators related to
vulnerability, increased       ;ocial capital for youth;

PRSPgoal: conditions           Wide support for the new
established for usingyouth's   ntegrated national program        esults from participatory
"economic and social           'or vulnerable youth             {GPRSPandyouth strategy
potential" by increasing their                                  nonitoring
participation in the economic,
social and political processes



Follow-on Development
Objective:
Targeted youth see their       7avorable evaluation o f                                      The Moldovan govemment
vulnerability and exclusion    iroject results inkey project                                 .emaim committed to
reduced and become             ireas. Key performance           woject post evaluation       ncrease the participation o f
empowered to contribute        ndicators in annex 12.           bllow-up Study.              fouth in economic, social
positively to the                                                                           mdpolitical life.
socio-economic development
of their communities and their                                                               The benefits o f the proposed
country inresponse to the                                                                    ntegrated approach are
nationwide rollout o f an                                                                    lemonstrated and generate
integrated and effective (Le.,                                                               ntemal and external support
tested and proven) approach                                                                  !or scaling-up.
for youth inclusion.




                                                          - 1 7 -

                                                                                                itica
Project Development             3utcome I Impact               'roject reports:           from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                      ndicators:
To determine (through pilot    I.Evidenceofsignificant         Leports from pilot M&E     h e project package offers
testing) whether targeted       ncreases inpositive economic   tudies, including direct   ufficient incentives for youth
young women and men (14-        mdsocial practices among       eedback from beneficiaries o adopt positive economic
30) from poorhlnerable          argeted youth inparticipating  .ndservice-providers       md social practices in
rural and peri-urban            oca1areas (See annex 12).                                 ;elected regions.
households inparticipating
local areas will adopt positive l. Evidence of significant
economic and social practices   .eductions in risky behavior                              h e project offers sufficient
inresponse to an integrated     's) among targeted youth in                               ncentives for a significant
and inclusive package of        jarticipating local areas (See                            xoportion o f youth interested
youth-oriented services and     LMex 12)                                                  nself-employment
opportunities.                                                                            Ipportunities to participate in
                                                                                          he youth entrepreneurship
Note: Youth's positive                                                                    xogram.
economic and social practices
expected to be increased
include(among others) (a)
organizational activity
(positive social capital); b)
participation in
designhmplementation of
activities relevant to them; c)
engagement in safe free-time
activities; d) increased ICT
literacy and other skills; e)
entrepreneurial activity by
youth; (0 creation o f formal
youth-owned businesseswith
commercial bank funding,
and (e) youth employment
within participating local
businesses.

Examples of negative and
risky behaviors expected to be
reducedinclude (a) passivity;
b) alcohol & drugabuse.




                                                           -18-

                                      =YI
3utput from each              Output Indicators:              Voject reports:            from Outputs to Objective)
Zomponent:
LYouth-FriendlySpaces          Output 1.1(youthcenters)
and Innovative Service         andoutput 1.2 (sub-projects     0 project reports
Delivery                       from competitivegrants):          pilot M&Estudies,
                                       Significant degree of     including mid-term and
3utput 1.1: Improvedaccess     coverage and penetrationof        final evaluation
For targetedyoung             targetedyouth sub-groups           supervision missions
Nomenlgirlsandmenboys to with the offeredprograms (see           results of bi-annualPSC
nformation, guidance,          annex 12);                        meetings and Regional
youth-friendlyspaces,                  Significantproportion     project advisory fora
skills-buildingactivities, and of targetedyouthelect to
iarticipation in               participate inoffered
lecision-making.               programs inlocal areas;

3utput 1.2: Improvedaccess output 1.2:
2 f youth residentsto                  Significantproportion
village-levelyouth-friendly    ofparticipatingNGO staff &
$paces& activities ;improved CBO members attendrelevant
iccess of at-risk youth and    trainingunder project
young parentsto special        sponsorship.
mtreachand services
yograms throughcivil society
sub-projects; Capacity of
participatingNGOs & CBOs
strengthenedto deliver
specific youth-oriented
xtivities.

2. Pro-YouthEmployment
Initiatives
Output 2.1: Access improved output 2.1:                                                   2. 01 Projectincentivesare
for some 1500targeted youth            High interest shown                                iuffcient for financial
to training, advisoryservices  by targetedyouth inadvisory                                nstitution(s) to work with
and financingfor business      services andbusiness equity                                youth applicants.
formation (or expansion i.e.   grantsI financing;
referringto moving from                Number ofequity
informalto formal).            grants & loans made, and
                               viable businesses formed or
                               expanded as a result(320
                               micro-enterprises are
                               expected).

Output 2.2: Access improved output 2.2:
for targetedyouth to                   Significantnumber
employment opportunities       (andpercentage)of local
throughparticipatinglocal      businessesjoin the proposed
businesses.                    business network(s);
                                       Highpercentageof
                               participatingbusinesses
                               remainactiveinthe business



                                                          - 19-

                                 letwork(s);
                                        Number ofintemships
                                 ndmentorship's made
                                 .vailable by businessesin
                                 n o mjob growth categories

3. Institutionaland Policy
Development
Output 3.1 Improved contents
of the national youth strategy
and its linkages with the
EGPRSP and strengthened
capacity o f central & local
government & PIU staff to
design and deliver inclusive
and integrated services for
youth

Output 3.2 Intemal and
extemal communication
activities completed

Output 3.3 Timely,               herall Increased trust,                                    iouth-serving private and
participatory and professional   nformation-sharingand                                     public partners remain
monitoring                       ooperation between different                              supportive and share
                                 routh-servingpublic and                                   knowledge.
                                 irivate stakeholders.

Output 4.1 Timely and            'roject implemented
professional management and uccesshlly within expected
reporting o f project activities ime, budget andperformance
                                 iarameters.

                                                                                         I
Project Components/              nputs: (budget for each      'roject reports:            1 (from Components to
Sub-components:                  :omponent)                                                Outputs)
1. Youth-friendly spaces          .US$    1.89 million        mplementation Progress       Key YSD central staff remain
and innovativeservice                                         Zeports (semi-annual)        and local YSD staff remain
delivery                                                                                    available to work in the field
                                                              Iisbursement reports          inselected project regions
Sub-C 1.1Regional                                             'rocurement reports
Youth-Friendly Centers
(UNICEF) -network o f                                         hdit reports (annual)
regional multi-service centers
(7 intotal) offering                                          ;ub-projects' M&Ereports
opportunities for skills                                       for 1.2)
enhancement, relevant
information and advisory
services;

Sub- C. 1.2 Civil societv
initiatives for youth
socio-economic inclusion
 Outreach to targeted youth



                                                           20 -

sub-groups (at-risk youth,
young parents) through
sub-project financing and
capacity-building for CBOs
and NGOs: offering
youth-friendly spaces in
villages; skills building
activities, service provision
for at-risk youth and youth as
parents.



2. Pro-YouthEmployment          !.US$3.61million            JNICEF co-financing and
Initiatives                                                 ipecialist staff remain
                                                            ivailable
Sub-C 2.1: Support to Youth
Entrepreneurship --
Make available training,
advisory services and
financing to facilitate business
formation or expansion]
among targeted youth.
Sub-C 2.2: Partnership and
Training for Employment     --
Training, Intemship [and
mentorship] program for
youth entry into wage
employment within a network
o f participatingbusinesses in
known job growth categories.

3. Institutionaland policy      I. US $ 0.41
development,

Sub-C 3.1 Capacity-building
and youth policy development
(national/regional level)

Sub-C 3.2 Communication &
Knowledge-sharing

Sub-C 3.3 M& E System

4. ProjectImplementation            8.U S $0.32
Support
C 4. Proiect support:
operating costs: PIU &
CAPMU staff salaries,
eauipment. 1 vehicle etc.




                                                   -21 -

                                  Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
               MOLDOVA. YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATION CREDIT

By Component:

Project Component 1 YOUTH-FRIENDLY SPACES 8 INNOVATIVESERVICE DELIVERY                     - US$1.89million

This component will directly address non-income dimensions o f youth poverty and social exclusion such as
powerlessness (often linked with lack o f information and isolation); vulnerability and exposure to risky
behaviors (e.g. drug abuse, alcoholism) due to idleness and lack o f spaces for safe and constructive
free-time activities; and gender-specific dimensions o f vulnerability such as domestic violence. Indrect
outcomes on income-dimensions o f poverty are also expected to occur as youth-serving spaces and civil
society initiatives will be encouraged to provide skills enhancement activities leading to possible future
income-generation activities. The outcome o f the first component will be achieved through the following
two sub-components outlined below: (i)       the establishment o f a network o f regional youth resource centers;
and (ii) a competitive grants program for youth-serving civil society associations to promote their creative
initiatives for youth's socio-economic inclusion and empowerment (increased social capital and
participation indecision-making).

Sub-component1.1Establishmentof RegionalYouth-Friendly Centers

Financed with UNICEF contribution (parallel co-financing with support from the Dutch Government), this
sub-component will finance the establishment o f a network o f resource centers and youth-friendly spaces
for: (i)safe and constructive free-time activities; (ii)skills enhancement (life skills, computer and
Information and Communication Technology (ICTs) skills); (iii)orientation, guidance & counseling on
youth-relevant subjects (including professional orientation/ counseling for young parents); and (iv)
distribution and sharing o f information on youth trends, opportunities and services for youth, and training
facilities and resources for youth service providers. These resource and multi-service centers will have a
critical role in: (a) facilitating the integration o f the pro-youth employment and social activities supported
by the Project (by acting as points o f referral for instance); (b) strengthening synergies and networking
among all existing youth oriented initiatives and services; and (c) offering logistic support and consultation
to youth NGOs and non-associated young people. The centers are established in close cooperation with the
YSD, local authorities and Youth NGOs. Three centers are already functioning: the National Youth
Resource Center in Clusinau, the National Youth Media in Chisniau, and the Regional Resource Center in
Biesti (Orhei).

For project coordination purposes, IDA and UNICEF Moldova parallel co-financing o f activities under
component 1.1 establishment o f youth fhendly centers and component 3 on institutional and policy
development, will be under the shared responsibility o f the UNICEF Youth Development Specialist
(permanent UNICEF staff) and the PIU manager. In addition, UNICEF will finance a local consultant to
support these activities.

A small contribution from IDA funds will be made to ensure that the regional resource centers can carry
out a sufficient number o f mobile activities so as to reach out to a greater number o f youth. This will be
done by financing a portion o f operating expenditures for the exclusive implementation o f mobile activities
and as based on semi-annual or annual budgets which will be sent to the PIU for review and approval.

Sub-component1.2: Supportto CivilSociety Initiativesfor Youth Economic and Social Inclusion



                                                         - 22 -

Under this sub-component, activities will build on the approach developed through the competitive small
grants pilot program for local youth-serving associations, which was implemented by the Youth and Sports
Department (YSD) between September 2002 through May 2003 (under the Norwegian Community Driven
Development Trust fund). Support to civil society initiatives for youth economic and social inclusion will
be provided through a grant scheme which has the following objectives : (i) reduce the isolation o f youth
                                                                                to
by stimulating the creation o f and supporting youth initiative groups; (ii) create opportunities for the
                                                                                to
prevention and mitigation o f youth vulnerability and risky behaviors by the promotion and provision o f
innovative economic and social services, especially in rural areas and small towns; (iii)     to strengthen the
capacity o f youth-serving NGOs and CBOs; and (iv) to improve communication, cooperation and trust
between governmental andnon-govemmental partners.

This subcomponent will finance: (a) subprojects; (b) technical assistance for capacity-building ,aiming at
strengthening the capacity for innovative service delivery to youth, especially the most disadvantaged; and
(c) specific promotion activities for the Grants program.


        (a)      Sub-Proiect Financing. There will be three different lines of grants which are defined
                according to proposed themes and activities, amount o f the proposals and type o f eligible
                applicants:

                         Line 1, will specifically respond to the need o f young people living in villages,
                         small towns and other isolated areas o f the 5 raions, where no youth spaces are
                         available nor accessible for adolescents and young adults. The planned and
                         existing regional youth centers under sub-component 1.1 cannot adequately reach
                         out to villages and other isolated communities. These youth spaces will become
                         part o f the systemic network o f information, training and support provided by the
                         regional resource centers. Grants will range from U S D 3,000 to 10,000 and will
                         be eligible to proposal for activities to be delivered in small youth-friendly spaces
                         invillages byNGOs and CBOs with morethanone-year experience;

                         Line 2, will range from USD 1,000 to 4,000 and will be eligible to proposals for
                         (i)the development ofoutreachprograms for particularlydisadvantaged andat
                         riskyouth (e.g., school drop-outs, youth with insufficient parental supervision, or
                         from dysfunctional families, etc.); (ii) slulls building for economic inclusion (e.g.
                         entrepreneurial slulls; studying o f foreign languages; application o f modern
                         information technologies -1CTs-; job search skills, including job applications,
                         interviews,   C.V.writing etc.); (iii)
                                                              activities for the prevention o f risky behaviors:
                         organization o f safe free-time activities for leisure, sports and entertainment; (iv)
                         information and knowledge sharing on the resources and opportunities available
                         for young people; and (v) counselling activities for young families.

                         Line 3, specifically responds to the needs o f non organized young people to: (i)
                         form initiatives groups for addressing community andor youth specific problems
                         and (ii)overcome difficulties o f access to funding and capacity-building
                         opportunities. Activities under this grant line include technical assistance o f
                         experienced NGOs for newly formed youth initiative groups and seed money for
                         selected activities o f these groups under the supervision o f the experienced NGO.
                         Grantshave a ceiling o fUSD 2,000 andare eligible for legally registeredlocal and
                         national youth NGO with experience in youth development issues and capacity
                         buildingo fnot less than 3 years.


                                                     - 23 -

The draft Operational Manual for the proposed project already includes a section for the specific
procedures which apply for this sub-component: eligible applicants, eligible and non-eligible expenditures
for sub-projects, grant cycle; selection criteria, etc.


        (b)      Capacitv-Buildingfor Youth-Serving NGOs and CBOs. The evaluation of the small
                 Community Driven Development (CDD) pilot project implemented by the Youth and
                 Sports Department in 2003 identified several areas where the capacity o f youth-serving
                 civil society associations should be improved: (i) outreach to and adequate service delivery
                 for at-risk youth and disadvantaged youth; (ii) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E),
                 including participatory M&E; and (iii) managementlaccounting skills. To address
                                                             basic
                 these needs, the capacity-building program financed inthis sub-component will include the
                 following:

                 9        Training of Trainersfor Outreach and inclusive Service Delivery (Intemational
                          T.A., Capacity-buildmg). Beneficiaries will be youth service-providers, preferably
                          with prior experience in support to vulnerable and at-risk groups. Participants
                          will thenbecome trainers and replicate similar leaming approach to other local and
                          regional youth service providers ineach project selected raion (see below). Main
                          areas o f training include: (i) Psychological support and counseling; (ii)Outreach
                          and mobilization techniques and (iii) and social work methodologies. This
                                                                  Youth
                          training will be implemented early in project implementation so as to ensure
                          improve quality o f future proposals inthis area (see line 2 o f subproject financing
                          above);

                 9        Regional Training on Outreach and inclusive Service Delivery (local              T.A.,
                 Capacity-building);

                 9        Training for grant short-listed applicants (local T.A., capacity-building); This
                          package o f training aims at strengthening the capacity o f short-listed applicants
                          (NGOs and youth initiatives group) during the phase o f grant proposal preparation
                          and includes technical assistance for the formulation o f objectives, the justification
                          for the proposed activities in relation to local needs, budget and costs estimates,
                          etc;

                 9        Training     of   selected     grant  applicants-(local   and     international    TA,
                          capacity-building); this will support the organization and implementation needs o f
                          the competition winners by offering short courses on management skills and
                          monitoring and evaluation.


        (c)      Specific Promotionfor the Grants Program. The Youth Inclusion PIU will carry out
                 promotion and communication activities for the overall project. Here, activities will aim at
                 (i)broaddisseminationofinformationfortheproposedprogram; (ii) promotionof
                     a                                                                        the
                 young people's participation by creating and increasing awareness. For these purposes,
                 fmanced activities will include:

                 P        The production and distribution o f written materials (leaflets, kits) providing
                          information on the competitive grants program

                 9        A special TWRadio Promotion Program going on air for 15 days before each o f
                          the two cycles o f the Grants program and which will rely on the capacity and


                                                       - 24 -

                           creativity o f young journalists which will have been trained as part o f
                           UNICEF-support to youth media (See Component 111, Sub-component on
                           communication).

Project Component 2. PRO-YOUTH EMPLOYMENT INITIATIVES US$3.61 million
                                                                    -

In selected regions, ths component will create enabling conditions for unemployed and/or precariously
employed adult young women and men to invest in shlls and assets leading to better self- and wage
-employment opportunities. While component one mainly focuses on civil society and local government as
service providers, this component concentrates on testing mechanisms to increase responsiveness to and
demand for youth within the financing and the economic sector (financing institutions, enterprises).
Sub-component 2.1 aims at supporting youth entrepreneurship whde Sub-component 2.2 focuses on
facilitating youth entry into wage employment.

Sub-component2.1: Supportto Youth Entrepreneurship

This sub-component will pilot an approach to help the young adults (18-30 years old) in the creation and
financing   o f self-employment opportunities in project selected regions. It is expected that outreach and
basic training should reach over 1,500 potential youth and that the project will facilitate the launch and
financing   o f approximately 300-350 micro-enterprises.      Social analysis found that financial institutions
tend not to lend to young people who suffer from a lack o f clear business plan and lack o f collateral. Even
initiatives such as the Rural Investment Services Project (RISP) tend to reach very few young women and
men. This sub-component will therefore try to address these issues by: (i)      providing business training; (ii)
assisting inthe design and implementation o f a business plan; (iii)  rewarding the best candidates with some
equitybuildinggrant; and (iv) linkingthe target populationto the formal financial sector.

Sub-component activities will include: (a) awareness and Training for business plan preparation and
implementation; and (b) Financing: Awards grant and link to the financial sector.


          (a)      Awareness and Training for Business Plan Preparation and Imulementation. Under
                   the proposed scheme, the subcomponent would use the infrastructure setup by RISP to
                   provide the training, business plan preparation and implementatiodfollow-up o f the
                   micro-enterprise for a period o f up to two years. Development Agencies (DAs) would
                   increase their capacity by an average o f 40%, and adapt their methodology to create
                   approximately 300-350 enterprises over the four-year period o f the project. Development
                   Agencies are local NGOs which have set up a network o f mobile teams in four regions o f
                   the country to provide similar services in rural and peri-urban areas, visiting their
                   participants intheir villages on a regular basis. Considering: (i) the investments that have
                   been made in developing training manuals; (ii)   the relationships that have been built at the
                   village level; (iii)the economies o f scale from scaling up such operations; and (iv) the
                   positive response the Mission has received from the participating financial institutions
                   about the quality o f the business plans prepared, it seems quite appropriate to use this
                   existing infrastructure. Special (adapted) awareness/communication strategies will be
                   devised so as to reach a maximum o f potential beneficiaries by developing a partnership
                   with: (i)wide range o f regionally based youth service providers mobilized by the project,
                            a
                   including the regional youth centers (component 1) and youth-serving civil society groups;
                   and (ii) partners such as the unemployment office (access to registered unemployed
                            other
                   youth).




                                                       - 25 -

         (b)      Financing. Various financing scenarios have been considered over the past few months.
                  Targeted andor subsidized lines o f credit were abandoned because they were not
                  considered proper policy. Straight grants were also not selected because o f their limited
                  impact and lack o f sustainability. Instead, the approach being proposed is to help build
                  some small equity as a capital grant for the most promising business plans which would in
                  turn be used as collateral for the young entrepreneur to be able to access credit from
                  financial institutions. During Pre-appraisal three financial institutions expressed their
                  support for the approach being proposed. Once a project has been preparedby the DA and
                  has been verified for eligibility criteria, the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
                  would then be able to select the best business proposals based on sustainability and
                  quality. Depending on the size and term o f the loan needed, the DA may need to seek
                  financing from a range o f financial institutions such as formal commercial banks, M E C or
                  even Saving and Credit Associations (SCAs). Such business projects would be financed
                  from three different sources: (i)personal contribution, in cash or in hnd, for
                  approximately 10% o f the total project cost; (ii) a capital (or equity-building grant which
                  would be financed by the LIL and would represent 50% o f total project cost; and (iii)   40%
                  financed by a two-year loan, at normal market rate, by PFIs who would use their own
                  resources or, in the case a PFI is already working with the RISP project, could also use
                  RISP resources if available and if the candidate also meets the RISP eligibility criteria.
                  The grant would be conditional on the commercial loan and vice-versa. In the case o f a
                  first time borrower being financed out o f RISP resources, the young entrepreneur would
                  receive the LIL grant o f 45-50%, but not the 20% grant from the REP. Related rules and
                  procedures will be clearly laid out inthe operational manual.

Sub-component2.2: Partnershipand Trainingfor Employment

The rationale for the design o f this second sub-component builds on the results o f the Multisector team
Learning on youth employment issues (See Annex lo). At macro level, a key barrier to youth employment
i s the overall low level o f labor demand in Moldova. However, at micro-level, various key informants
including enterprises identified additional constraints such as skills mismatches (including technical, but
also attitudinal and behavioral shlls). Therefore, a potential scope for reducing skills mismatches as a way
to increase youth access to wage employment can be envisaged.

This sub-component aims at facilitating youth entry into wage employment, through the development o f a
network o f local private businesses, based on a pool o f businesses that have already participated in the
second World Bank financed Private Sector Development (PSD 11) project. The partnership with this
network will allow for exchange o f information on possible skills mismatches or shortages, subsequent
provision o f vocational training courses, internships and mentorship in known job growth categories in
selected project regions.

 The target group for this proposed sub-component will be young people o f age 16-30, not involved in
  secondary school education, with no current andprevious formal employment experience, and identified as
 vulnerable by key informants, including the local Employment Bureau (fromthe registry o f unemployed),
 the Youth and Family department (from the list o f recorded vulnerable households), the local bureau o f
 the Ministryof Education (from the list of school drop-outs) andthe department for the disabled, andother
  civil society organizations. Other direct beneficiaries will include legally registered businesses with at
  least 3 years existence, facing identified problems o f skills mismatch or skills shortages, and preferably
 reporting profit as o f year ended preceding the project starting year. The rationale for choosing this type o f
 business is to ensure that the project will train the youth in an economically viable corporate environment.


                                                       - 26 -

This sub-component will finance four main types o f activities:

        1. A Skills and Training NeedsAssessment (STNA), which will consist of a rapid assessment
             (qualitative study) o f the network o f selected partner companies to identify their needs interms
            o f workforce and qualifications and produce results in terms o f possible opportunities for
            young trainees. This study would be implemented at the beginning o f the project and repeated
            after two years, and this in close consultation with the Department o f Labor Force and other
            relevant partners.

        2. Support to Identificationof Target Group-Vulnerable Youth and Outreach Promotion,
            by relying on local consultancy service(s) (individual or youth NGO) and providing the
            necessary incentives and support for collaborating municipal officials (e.g. field visits per
             diems etc).

        3. Core Training or counseling services, which will include professionalorientation (taking a
            test to determine potential professional skills and literacy), job- searching skills enhancement
             (interview techmques, job searching methods, curriculum-vitae writing, self-esteem, career
            planning).

        4. Job Specific Training Package. Here the project will finance a demand-driven vocational
             training package which will be designed based on the results o f the STNA. This package will
             include:

             (4           Vocational Training Courses (VTC) (of a maximum duration o f 4-6 months in
                          institution or on the job i.e. undertaken directly within the enterprises);

             (b)          intemship subsequent to the VTC during a 4 month period offered at the partner
                          enterprises; and

             (c)          Financing o f per-diem o f trainees (for the duration o f VTC) and co-financing with
             partner enterprises for the duration o f the intemship. The amounts o f per diem may vary
             according to sub-groups o f youth. In particular, there will be higher per diems for young
             mothers so as to address constraints related to childcare.

Project Component 3. INSTITUTIONALAND POLICY DEVELOPMENT US$0.41 million  -
This component mainly focuses on the state public sector as a youth-serving entity. Financed activities
address the need for: (i)strengthening strategy and policy development at national level; (ii)
capacity-building and knowledge-sharing within the network o f public service providers (including the PIU
staff and the Youth and Sports Department staff); (iii)ensuring a broad dissemination o f                project
opportunities through adequate communication and awareness-rasing; and (iv)              Financed activities are
clustered into three sub-components, as outlined below.

Sub-component3.1 Capacity-BuildingandYouth PolicyDevelopment

This sub-component focuses on two areas:
                  (a)     Supuort     to State Policy Development. Advisory services will be provided to
                          strengthen the content and the monitoring o f both the recently designed National
                          Youth Strategy and its linkages with the EGPRSP, with a particular focus on
                          identified gaps: strategies and policies to reach and serve youth with less
                          opportunities; youth employment policies (both entrepreneurship and wage



                                                       - 27 -

                        employment) and financial dimensions o f youth policy (cost-benefits analysis o f
                        investment in youth development and inclusion). In addition, advisory services
                        will be provided to the five selected municipalities o f each selected raions to help
                        them come up with proposed regional strategies and action plans on youth
                        socio-economic inclusion and participation. capacity building for youth policy
                        formulation and Project implementation for central and local government staff,
                        PIU staff, and youth-serving CBOs and NGOs.


                (b)     Capacity-Building for youth policy formulation and implementation for public
                        Staff (central & local government staff, PIU staff).           The Capacity-building
                        activities will focus on those areas that are not covered by other components (See
                        Component 1.1 which includes training for regional staff o f youth centers and
                        youth workers, training for free-time animators, life-skills educators and See
                        Component 1.2 which includes training on service delivery for youth-at-risk which
                        will also be able to benefit to public staff ). These areas include a) Results oriented
                        monitoring and evaluation at both policy and project level, with a particular
                        emphasis on participatory monitoring and evaluation; b) Areas to be identified
                        following the lessons learned from the two first years of implementation (mid-term
                        review) and which should likely          focus on: (i)raion and municipal staff
                        collaborating on the implementation o f the pro-youth employment initiatives (e.g.
                        local labor offices); and (ii)policies and strategies for youth socio-economic
                        inclusion (YSD, central government staff from relevant sectoral ministries, and
                        MinistryofFinance on cost-benefit aspects).

For both policy development andcapacity-building, the project will finance:

           0    The contracting o f three intemationally recruited consultants for technical assistance. The
                profile o f these consultants will be as follows: i)a social development specialist with
                strong participatory planning and monitoring and evaluation skills; (b) an economist with
                experience inthe field o f social policy and particular cost-benefit analysis inyouth policy;
                and (c) a labor economist with experience in youth employment policy.               As policy
                development should be informed by lessons learned from project activities, the technical
                assistance delivered by the economist and the labor economist should be delivered towards
                the mid-term o f the project and for a limited period o f time. The social development
                specialist with M&E skills should be hired early in project implementation for a limited
                period (15) to conduct the training and help design the participatory M&E system (See
                 Sub-component 3.3 below) and then conduct another visit to verify that the counterparts
                are performing adequately andprovide them with adequate mentoring.

           0    Capacity-building workshops

           0    Learning and participatory consultation events.

UNICEF will co-finance these capacity-building and policy development activities by supporting a course
on participatory methods o f M&E for the staff o f youth centers (15,000) and support to the Youth strategy
working group (15,000).

NB: The contribution of another donor will be sought to finance a program o f capacity-building andpolicy
development that will ensure appropriate gender mainstreaming for the project, as based on the
recommendations o f the experts' mission completed in September 2003 and financed through the



                                                    - 28 -

GENFUND. Similarly, the counterpart requested the team to seek support for financing a technical
assistance to a Moldovan University (the State Universityis proposed) to who the overall capacity-building
program for youth private andpublic service providers would be transferred to ensure future sustainability.


Sub-component3.2 CommunicationandKnowledge-Sharing

This sub-component will finance both promotion activities and intemal communication within the network
o f private and public service providers for the project. Promotion and extemal communication activities
will aim at broad dissemination o f project options and opportunities, at creating awareness and incentives
for young people to use these opportunities rather than engage in risky behaviors, and at promoting the
image o f important project partners (partner commercial banks etc ). Financed activities will include:

         e      The design and regular broadcast o f a special radio/TV program at national and regional
                levels addressing and prepared by young people (with young people sharing experience
                with project activities, problems, challenges and ideas). This programwill be implemented
                through collaboration with the National Youth Media Center (See Component 1.1) and the
                team o f young joumalists w h c h have been trained with UNICEF support and
                 informatiodcomplaints.

         e      A hotline that will be accessible for young people looking for informationabout the project
                 or willing to make complaints and/or suggestions about project activities.

         e       The design andprinting o f project written materials (project kits, leaflets etc.).

         e      The design o f a website for the project with a window for service providers and young
                people, which will be later updated by PIU staff with possible punctual help from
                Information and Communication technologies Students.

         e      And other PIUspecific promotion activities (press conferences, promotionmeetings).

Sub-component3.3 Monitoringand EvaluationSystem

A comprehensive, leaming-oriented and participatory M&E system will be developed for the project.
Under this sub-component, the necessary following activities will be financed:

3.2.1 Design and implementation o f the M&E system. data collection and analysis. For design purposes,
this sub-component will finance the recruitment o f an M& E specialist with experience with
quantitative/qualitative skills and who will work in close collaboration with the Social Development
Specialist with participatory M&E expertise (See sub-component 3.1 above). The M&E specialist will
make three short visits to Moldova, one in early project implementation, one during the mid-term review
and one for final evaluation. In addition, the project will have to finance expenses related to quantitative
and qualitative datacollection and treatment, including individual and/or firm local consultancy.

3.2.2 Support to regional project advisory fora (biannual) to be held prior to biannual national Proiect
Steerinv Committee meeting. The functions o f the PSC and regional advisory fora are described under
implementation arrangements (main section C.2).          Both the PSC and the regional fora will serve as
platforms for assessing project implementation status,           encountered obstacles, achievements and
recommendations. The design o f the M&Ewill make sure that sufficient and representative participation of
youth beneficiaries and service-providers is ensured in the regional fora. Finance activities will typically
include travel costs and per diems for participants (just as for capacity-building events).



                                                    - 29 -

Other sub-components will contribute to the financing o f the M&E system (M&E Capacity-building for
both civil society and public partners- See component 1.2 and 3.1; beneficiary forms and feedbacks for
activities, hotline for specific complaints in 3.2Promotion & Communication).         Finally, UNICEF will
allocate 15,000 as part o f M&E activities for the youth centers.

Project Component 4. Project Implementation Support US$0.32 million
                                                        -
This component will ensure a successful project implementation within expected time, budget and
performance parameters through timely management and reporting o fproject activities. Itwill finance
support to the P I U and CAPMU for project implementation including fiduciary functions, and including the
following:

    e    Operating Costs. P I U and a portion o f CAPMU staff salaries for staff involved inYIP (ie.
         Procurement specialist, Financial Management & General Director). Other expenditures include;
         consumable office supplies, fuel, travel andper diem allowances. The Youth and Sports
         Department will provide premises andfinance office rent for the PIU.

    e    Equipment includmg office equipment, computers andone mini-vanwhich will serve both as
         transportation means for the PIU and as an essential tool for outreach and field visits.




                                                    - 30 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
               MOLDOVA YOUTH INCLUSIONLEARNING & INNOVATIONCREDIT

                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                             US $million
Component 1. Establishment of Youth Friendly Spaces and        -    -                              1.89                    0.00                     1.89
Innovative Service Delivery
Component 2. Pro-Youth Employment htiatives                                                        3.61                    0.00                    3.61
Component 3. Institutional Development and Policy                                                  0.24                    0.17                    0.41
Development
Component 4. Project Implementation Support                                                        0.28                    0.04                    0.32
Unallocated                                                                                        0.15                    0.00                    0.15
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                6.17                    0.21                    6.38
 Physical Contingencies                                                                            0.00                    0.00                    0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                               0.00                    0.00                    0.00
                                         Total Proiect Cost:                                       6.17                    0.21                    6.38
                                 Total Financing Reauired                                          6.17                    0.21                    6.38

  I
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 6.39 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharingratio is 46.92% oftotal
  project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                     -31     -

                                   Annex 4: Financial Management
               MOLDOVA:YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING& INNOVATIONCREDIT

ACCOUNTING, FINANCIALREPORTING AND AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS

CountryIssues

The country issues are represented in the CFAA report as o f September 2003. This report has identified
weaknesses inthe area o f public finances. The conclusion o f the document is that the Bank can not rely on
the Moldovan financial accountability framework and should insure that each operation has an acceptable
level of financial management to provide effective and appropriate use o f funds. Inthis project's particular
case the weak accountability in public financial sector and lack o f knowledge in World Bank procedures
withinYSD will be compensated by the participation o fCAPMU inproject implementation.

Strengths and Weaknesses
Strengths: The significant strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the project financial management
system include: (i)administration and fiduciary functions will be performed by CAPMU which implements
Bank-financed projects and satisfies Bank financial management requirements.

Weaknesses:Project weaknesses have been addressed.

Staffing

CAPMU staff assigned to work under the project, include a general hector, chief accountant and
procurement specialist. CAPMU staff has significant experience inWorld Bank project implementation and
has demonstrated that it is fully capable o f performing the fiduciary functions for the Youth Inclusion
Project. It was agreed that the chief accountant and procurement specialist will work in close cooperation
with the PIUmanager andwill report to himher as well as the CAPMUgeneral director.

Funds Flow

The funds flow scheme assumes that project funds will flow from: (i) Bank, either via a single Special
                                                                       the
Account which will be replenished on the basis o f SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct
payment withdrawal applications; or (ii)the Government, via the Treasury at the Ministry o f Finance
(MOF) on the basis o fpayment requests approved by the Foreign Debt Department o fthe MOF.

Funds that will be provided by UNICEF for component 1.1 will be disbursed according to the rules and
practices applied in UNICEF. These funds will not be controlled by CAPMU and will be disbursed from
the Special account that is to be opened for UNICEF funds. Project progress and financial information will
be provided by UNICEF on a semiannual basis to the Project Manager.

The grant financing scheme is divided in two parts: Component 1.2 Competitive Grant scheme assumes
that hnds go to the accounts o f the Grant Beneficiaries (NGOs, CBOs), depending on the Competitive
Grand Selection Committee conclusion. The CGSC will consist o f six members: one member from the
Youth and Sports Department; two members from the P I U (the Manager and the Project Officer
responsible for Component 1.2); one from a National Youth NGO; one from local Youth NGO; and one
representative from UNICEF.        That scheme also assumes that Grant beneficiaries should provide
counterparts funds inkindor incash.

Component 2.1 includes an Equity Building Grant scheme, which is designed to support entrepreneurial



                                                   - 32 -

activities that are eligible for financing. That grant scheme also anticipates counterpart financing from the
beneficiaries (in cash or in-kind) and such co-financing should be approximately 10% o f the total
sub-projects costs. Part o f such project costs (estimated 40%) will be financed by the loan funds that
should be provided by the financial intermediary(ies). In that case Project Grant funds will go to the bank
account o f the eligible beneficiary and procurement will be conducted according to normal commercial
practice.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

The accounting books and records o f the Project will be maintained on a cash basis. Project financial
statements will be presented in United States dollars.         CAPMU has instituted a set o f appropriate
accounting procedures which will be used for the Youth Inclusion Learning and Innovation Project that
includes chart o f accounts designed for the project, as well as a set o f financial reporting forms.
Accounting policies and procedures are reflected inthe project Financial Manual that i s part o f the Project
Operational Manual. C A P M U has a General Financial Manual, which describes procedures applied in
CAPMU. This FM has a specific part, which relates to each specific project that is implemented by
CAPMU.

Accounting policies to be applied inthe project will include the following major assumptions:
- cash accounting as the basis for recording transactions;
- reporting should be done inU S dollars;
- consolidated  financial reports should be prepared for all components;
- reports to be prepared are FMRs, the format o f which have to be developed and agreed on;
- reports to be submitted to the World Bank on a semi-annual basis
- allcounterpart funds should be reflected inthe financial statements.

Reporting and Monitoring

CAPMU will produce all project financial reports, special account statement and SOE reports for the Bank
from the accounting software that has been adjusted for World Bank projects' specific format. CAPMU
has demonstrated that it is able to report on project expenditures. CAPMU'Schief accountant has adjusted
the accounting software (through adjustment o f Chart o f accounts framework based on the project's design)
to provide automatedreporting under the project.

Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring
and supervision and the indicative formats o f these have been developed and found acceptable for the
project. CAPMU will produce a full set o f FMRs for the Project semi-annually throughout the life o f the
project. This decision is based on the understanding that the project is rated as a low risk project and for
reasons o f time and cost savings it is agreed that the period o f reporting is fully satisfactory for the project
needs.

Information Systems

CAPMU'S information system is based on the accounting software, which i s used for presentation o f
project's financial reports and is denominated inlocal currency and foreign currencies. The system is well
developed andpresents an integrated accounting system that helps to provide day-to-day transaction,
control over contracts, and special account statement preparation. It was agreed that CAPMUwill use this
system for the project needs. The ChiefAccountant has introduced a chart o f accounts for the project,
which was developed inline with the project specific design. That will allow to have a trial balance on
project accounts and these balances will be used for projects' reports preparation. A set o f developed
FMRswill be produced automatically from the system.



                                                      - 33 -

InternalAudit

CAPMU has no internal audit function and none is considered necessary given the size o f the organization
andbased onthe control environment within the organization.

External Audit

The audit o f the project will be conducted by independent private auditors, acceptable to the Bank on terms
o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract
for the audit awarded during the first year o f project implementation and thereafter extended from
year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost o f the audit will be
financed from the proceeds o f the credit. TORSfor the audit o f the project has been agreed. It is suggested
that Youth Inclusion project audit will be provided by the current CAPMU auditor inline with the audits o f
other projects which are under implementation o f CAPMU.

It is planned that the annual project financial statement audit TORSwill not include requirements to
auditors to provide confirmation and evaluation o f the Grant Beneficiaries' contributions.                Such
confiiation and evaluation will be provided according to the internal project controlling procedures that
include requirements, that such control is to be provided by a Monitoring and Evaluation specialist, who is
to provide control over Sub Grant agreements conditions execution.            Development Agencies that are
involved in the equity buildinggrants will provide such control based on the agreement between DAs and
CAPMU. DAs are required to prepare Project Summary Sheets which include financial information on
Grant Beneficiary's contribution.

Taking into account that UNICEF funds will be provided according to the rules applied by this
organization and, taking into account, that control over such fimds is totally place on the UNICEF, the
auditing o f such funds are not anticipated.    However these funds will be included in annual audited
financial statements under the project and will be confirmed by the UNICEF.

An audit opinion on the project's financial statements, statements o f expenditures and Special Account will
be required within six months to the end o f the fiscal year and also o f the closing o f the project. Inaddition,
the Moldovan Court o f Accounts, the country's supreme audit institution, performs extemal audits o f
CAPMU and the projects under their implementation.

DisbursementArrangements

Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's transactional procedures including SOEs and direct
payments.    Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be
retained by the Borrower and made available to the Bank during project supervision. Disbursements for
expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation relating to
those expenditures. There is no plan to move to periodic disbursements.

The CAPMU will open and manage a Special Account specifically for this project, in a bank acceptable to
the Bank. Withdrawal applications for the replenishments o f the SA will be sent to the Bank monthly, but
at least every three months, or when the balance o f the SA is equal to about halfo f the initial deposit or the
authorized allocation, whichever comes first.

The initial allocation to the SA for the Project will be limited to U S $0.25 million. The initial allocation
may be increased up to the authorized allocation o f U S $0.5 million once aggregate disbursements o f U S
0.5 million are reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal applications. The usage o f direct payment
and issuance o f special commitments will be limited to amounts exceeding 20% o f the special account
deposit.



                                                     - 34 -

SOEs
Disbursements on the basis o f SOEs will be made for all procurements not subject to Bankprior review as
follows:

Goods: contracts amounting to less than U S $100,000 per contract (except for the first two contracts for
each o f International Shopping, National Shopping and all under Direct Contracting).
Consulting services-firms: contracts amounting to less than US $100,000 per contract.
Consulting services-individuals: contracts amounting to less than US $50,000 per contract.
Training: all contracts..
Operating costs: all contracts.

Related documentation in support o f SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank but will be retained by
CAPMU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank o f the audit report for the year in which the
disbursement is made. This documentation will be available for review by the auditors and the Bank staff.
Ifineligibleexpenditures,includmgthosenotjustifiedbytheevidencefurnished,oramountsinexcessof
agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the Special Accounts, the Bank will have the right to
withhold further deposits from the Special Accounts. The Bank may exercise this right untilthe Borrower
has (a) refunded the amount involved; or (b) submitted evidence, to the Bank'ssatisfaction, o f other eligible
expenditures that the Bank can use to off-set the ineligible amounts. The PIU and CAPMU will be
required to maintain all books and records for post-review by the Bank's supervision missions and for the
auditors.

SupervisionPlan

Duringproject implementation, the Bankwill supervise the project's financial management arrangements in
two ways: (i)   review the project's six-monthly financial management reports and the project's annual
audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)during the Bank's supervision
missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements (including, as
required, a review of a sample o f SOEs and movements on the Special Account) to ensure compliance with
the Bank's minimumrequirements. As required, a Bank Financial Management Specialist will assist inthe
supervision process.




                                                  - 35 -

                              Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
            MOLDOVA YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATION CREDIT




IAppraisal mission departure                     I         11/03/2003            I         11/03/2003         I
 Negotiations                                              12/08/2003                      12/08/2003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                             04/30/2004

Prepared by:
The Department for Youth and Sports inMoldova with a preparation process which involved consultations
with representatives from the Ministryo f Labor and Social Protection (Department o fLabor Force), the
MinistryofEducation(Department ofVocational Training), localgovernment representatives inproject
selected regions, UNICEF representatives, CAPMU staff and various national and regional Moldovan
Youth NGOs.

Preparationassistance:
The Multisector Team learning Initiative (Bank financed), a Youth employment award from the President
Contingency Fundand a GENFUNDaward helped finance the project's social, institutional and gender
analysis (focus groups and key informants interviews with young people andwith privatelpublic service
providers (including enterprises and commercial banks).- See Annex 10 for results. The Gender report is in
the project files.

Bank staff who worked on the project included:
         Name                                             Speciality
 Arisoy, Elmas                            Procurement Specialist
 Bomani, Irene                            Program Assistant, Cost Tables and Project Processing
 Burunsus, Victor                         Consultant, Private Sector Development Officer
 Chandler, Charles                        Consultant, Outcome-focused Design, M&E issues
 Clark (Donoso), Maria                    Peer Reviewer, Sector Leader, LCSES
 Clert, Carine                            Task Team Leader, Social Development Specialist
 Ciszewski, Michael                       Coach, Multisector Team Learning Program, Bank\Client Team
 Colleye, Pierre Olivier                  Senior Microfinance Specialist, Youth Entrepreneurship
 Freese, David                            Senior Finance Officer
 Galliano, Elena                          Consultant, Advice on Youth Inclusion and Outreach (Italian CTF)
 Kazakov, Vitaly                          Financial Management Specialist
 Kolev, Alexandre                         Economist, Support to Youth Wage Employment
 Kolovou, Zoe                             Senior Counsel
 Lindeberg, Sten                          Gender Analysis & Training Consultant (GENFUND)
                                          Sector Manager, Social Development
 Noble, Beaulah                           Program Assistant
 Pinari, Ala                              Operations Officer



                                                   - 36 -

Tutjenvic, Tamara    I GenderPlanningandMainstreamingConsultant (GENFUND)    I




                             - 37 -

                  Annex 6: Procurement and DisbursementArrangements
            MOLDOVA YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATIONCREDIT

Procurement

      Procurement o f goods, works and technical services financed by the World Bank will be done in
      accordance with the World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
      (issued inJanuary 1995,RevisedJanuary and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).

      Consulting services and technical assistance financed by the World Bank will be done in
      accordance with the World Bank Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by the
      World Bank Borrowers (issued inJanuary 1997,revised September 1997, January 1999 and May
      2002).

      The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Request for Proposals will be used. Works, goods
      and services which are not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with the
      arrangements agreed between the financier and the Government. A General Procurement Notice
      will be publishedinthe Development Business o fthe UnitedNations inDecember 2003.

      II.Implementation:

      The Youth and Sports Department (YSD) will be the beneficiary agency o f the project. It has
      agreed that a Project Implementation Unit will be established within the legal framework o f the
      existing CAPMU, the oldest project management unit in Moldova, established in 1997 to manage
      the First Agnculture Project financed by the Bank. It is a legal entity established by a Government
      decree and very experienced inmanaging Bank financed projects.

      The PIU will be responsible for project coordmation and technical implementation (See C4 in the
      main text o f the LIL PAD). The project manager, program officers and project assistant to be
      financed fully by YIP funds will be hired individually among the applicants expressing their
      interest to a Request for Expressions o f Interest published at the national press.

      The procurement specialist and financial management specialist o f CAPMU will be assigned to
      work on a part time basis for the Youth Inclusion Project PIU. These specialists have considerable
      experience in IDA-financed projects and are qualified to work for this project. A Project Launch
      Workshop will be held inFebruary 2004 to reaffirm the CAPMU'S andPIU's understanding o f the
      procurement procedures under the Project.

      III.ProcurementArrangements:

      The following procurement methods will be applicable for the procurement o f goods, works and
      services.

      (a)      Procurementof Goods:

      International Competitive Bidding(ICs): N o goods contract is planned to be procured under ICB,
      butthis methodwill be retainedinthe legal documents as a default method.


                                                   - 38 -

International Shopping (IS): The contracts for the procurement o f readily available off-shelf goods
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 per contract will be procuredthrough I S on the basis o f at
least three quotations obtained from suppliers from two eligible source countries in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

National Shopping 04s): The contracts for the procurement o f locally available off-shelf goods
estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 per contract will be procuredthrough N S on the basis o f at
least three quotations obtained from domestic suppliers in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.

(b) Procurementof ConsultingServices:

Oualitv and Cost Based Selection (OCBS): N o consultancy contracts with consulting firms are
planned under QCBS procedure, but this method will be retained in the legal documents as a
default method.

Selection Based on Consultants' Oualifications (CO): The consulting services to be contracted to
consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 will be procured on the basis o f CQ
procedure inaccordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines.

Least Cost Selection (LCS): The audit services will be procured under LCS procedure in
accordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines.

Individual Consultants (IC): The consulting services for strengthening project management and
implementation to be contracted to individual consultants will be procured on the basis o f
Individual Consultants in accordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines. For the individual
consultants to be hired for more than six months duration, the positions will be advertised for
expressions o f interest in international and/or national media depending on the expertise required
and selection willbe based on comparison o f qualifications o f those expressing interest.

Single Source Selection 6 s ) : The consulting services, which: (i) would be a natural continuation
of previous work carried out by the firm; (ii) be selected rapidly due to an emergency need;
                                                must
(iii) anexceptionalnaturewhereonlyonefirmisqualifiedorhasexperienceofexceptional
     has
worth for the assignment; and (iv) is estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000, with the Bank's
prior agreement, will be done procured through SS in accordance with the Bank's Consultants
Guidelines.

Under another Bank financed project (RISP), Development Agencies have been selected on a
competitive basis. These yearly contracts would be extended on a single source basis inaccordance
with paragraph 3.9 (a) o f the Bank's Consultant Selection Guidelines which provides that a single
source selection is appropriate for tasks that represent a natural continuation o f previous work
carried out by the firm. The continuity in the technical approach, experience acquired, and
continued professional liability o f the same Consultant make the continuation with the initial
consultant preferable compared to a new competition, subject to satisfactory performance in the
initial assignment.




                                            - 39 -

(c)      CompetitiveGrantsProgram:

The maximum amount o f each sub-project will be US$lO,OOO depending on the type o f the
sub-project activity. The method o f procurement will be simplified procurement arrangements
through Community Participation as explained inProject Operations Manual.

(d)      Enterpreneurship(or equity-building)Grants:

The average size o f a grant will be about US$3,000 to assist the young entrepreneurs to build a
small equity and enable them to get credit from financial institutions. The method o f procurement
will be commercial practices o f the respective beneficiaries, in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraphs 3.12 o f the Guidelines for goods and works, and the provisions o f paragraph 3.12 o f
the Consultant Guidelines for services. Such commercial practices involve obtaining quotations
from more than one supplier or contractor.

(e)      TrainingExpenditures:

The PIU shall prepare detailed training programs for every six months in consultation with the
implementing agencies. The Training Programs shall contain time schedules for workshops,
seminars, study tours and travels etc. including detailed information on the content, itinerary,
location, number o f beneficiaries, cost estimates for each activity etc. These training programs
shall be submitted to the Bank for review and clearance before implementation. After the Bank's
clearance, the program shall be implemented in accordance with the agreed procedures without
requiring the Bank's clearance o f each component o f the training program. The status o f the
training program will be included as part o f progress reports and will be updated and/or modified
as may be mutually agreed between the PIU andthe Bank.

The training services expenditures consist o f subsistence and travel (local andor international)
costs incurredby trainees, training fees, provision o f training materials and handouts, trainers' fees
etc. These expenditures will be directly reimbursed subject to the presentation by the PIU o f
Statement o f Expenditures.

(f)      OperatingCostsof PIU(RecurrentCosts):

The operating costs including operating and maintenance cost o f office equipment, stationary and
cost o f advertisement for procurements under the project shall be financed through CreQt proceeds.


IV. ProcurementReview Bv The Bank

The CAPMU shall use the latest versions o f the Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) for
the procurements financed by the Bank.

Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods, works and services for the project will be
carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan, which will be updated as necessary
and included in the progress reports for Bank review and approval. The Bank will review the
procurement arrangements proposed by the Borrower, including contract packaging, applicable
procedures, and the scheduling o f the procurement processes, for its conformity with Bank
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines, the proposed implementation program and disbursement


                                            -40-

schedule.


(a)      Prior Review: The following procurement action and documentation would be
subject to Prior Review by the Bank.

Goods: Prior review o f Invitation to Quotation including technical specifications, Evaluation
Report and Recommendations o f Contract award will be conducted.

ConsultantServices: Prior review o fprocurement documents andactions which will include:

IC contracts of US$ 50,000 and above: Prior review o f :(1) Consultants Short Lists (three to six
consultants per assignment); (2) Draft Contract Agreement; (3) Terms o f Reference, including
description o f services and consultants' reporting requirements; and (4) Negotiated Contract will
be conducted.

IC contracts of below US$ 50,000: Prior review o f (1) criteria for short listing consultants; and
(2) Terms o f Reference will be conducted.

The Bank's prior review o fprocurement action would cover the following;

          First IS and N S contracts for goods

          All contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more

          All contracts with individual consultants estimatedto US$50,000or more each

          First contracts with consulting firms estimated to less than US$lOO,OOO              and with
          Individual Consultants estimated to cost less than US$50,000

          The Terms o f Reference for all consultant contracts with consulting firms and the Terms
          o f Reference and CVs o f individuals irrespective o f their costs

          Post Review: The procurement documents for all other contracts shall be subject to the
Bank's post review on a random basis, one in five contracts. Post review of the procurement
documents will normally be undertaken during the Bank supervision mission or as the Bank may
request to review any particular contracts at any time. In such cases, C A P M U shall provide the
Bank for its review the relevant documentation including biddingdocuments issued to the bidders,
letter o f invitation to quote, minutes o f bid opening, bid evaluation reports, copies o f bidproposals,
signed contracts etc. The periodic post reviews shall be conducted by the Bank's Procurement
Specialist. The outcome o f the post review will be communicated by the Bank to CAPMU at the
earliest time.

V. Procurement Monitoring and Reporting:

The CAPMU will keep a complete and up-to-date record o f all procurement documentation and
relevant correspondence in its files, which will be reviewed by the Bank staff during supervision
missions. The Procurement Plan for the project shall be prepared by CAPMU and h i s h e d to the
Bank for its review and approval in accordance with the provisions o f the Bank's Procurement



                                               -41 -

Guidelines. The Procurement Plan, which indicates the procurement arrangements, contract
packaging, applicable procurement method, scheduling o f procurement process, estimated cost etc,
will be updated annually by CAPMU. All procurements shall be undertaken inaccordance with the
Procurement Plan.

Monitoring reports on procurement progress will be submitted as part o f progress reports on
program implementation. The report shall include all information related with the completed,
on-going andplanned contracts.

VI. Action PlanTo BuildUPThe Aeencv's Capacitv:

The following actions need to be taken in the given order to alleviate the risks for poor
implementation o f procurement under the project:

        The procurement file containing up to date procurement documents (guidelines, manuals,
        templates o f procurement notices, standard bidding documents for procurement o f goods
        and works, standard request for proposal documents for consultants services, evaluation
        report formats, regional and simplified procurement documents etc.) shall be prepared by
        the Bank and provided to YSD at the time o f Project Launch Workshop. The P I U is
        recommended to visit the Bank's web-site frequently to ensure using the most updated
        procurement documents.

        TORSfor the PIU staff will be prepared by YSD. These positions will be advertised and
        the CVs o f the shortlist and the selected person will be submitted to the Bank for review
        and clearance.

        CAPMU will provide assurance that the procurement specialist will devote at least 30% o f
        histime for YIP procurement activities, especially at the early stages ofthe project.

        The work load o f procurement specialist shall be assessed for a period o f 6 months after
        the effectiveness o f the project. Incase o f shortcomings, two options will be considered i)a
        new full-time procurement specialist will be hired who will be workmg solely for YIP, or
        ii)a full-time procurement assistant will be hired to assist the part-time procurement
        specialist.

        The procurement specialist, who is currently working for RISP, had some training on
        Bank's procurement procedures given by ILO in Turin. To gain knowledge on
        procurement o f CDD project, he will attend procurement trainings provided by ILO in
        Turin specifically for CDD projects and will try to visit other PIUs who are managing
        similarprojects with CDD components.

        Bank procurement specialist will be a member of the project team throughout the project
        cycle. Duringproject implementation, the Bank procurement specialist should be involved
        inthe supervision missions.




                                             -42-

 1                 2            3 = MOLDOVA YC UTHINCLUSION PROJECT: PROCUREMENTPIAN
                                               -
                                      4    1            5              I    6      I                              1
    I
u OlDescriDtion               I
                              lb i                  iatedCost S%        Procurement   GPN       DRFP 1. Bidl.Invit        Contract      Contract
    I                         I             Total(a)
                                                                          Dec. 03

                                                     305,000  505,000      CDD                    Spreadover thelife ofproject
     (max $10,000 each)
                                                             I         I           I
                                                     230,000 I 80,000       CQ               IMarch-2005 IApr-2005 IApr-2005         ISept-2005
                                                             I         I           1
                                                                                   I         IMarch-2006 IApr-2006 IApr-2006         ISebt-2006
                                                        0    I228,000 II   NBF     IN/A      p#A           IN/A       IN/A           IN/A
                                                                                             I             I          I              I
                                                             1         1    iiI1                                                                1
                                                    1,056,000 1,056,000     CP                    Spreadover the life ofproject


                                                             I                               I             IIW4I                     I
                                                              180,000  I    SS               IAnnual
                                                                                             I        contractssubject to satisfactoryperformance
      Supportdevelopingyouth                                                                                 Single Source Selection
     entrepreneurship             T                  440,000




                                                     30,000    10,000                         March-2004 Apr-2004       Apr-2004      Sept-2004
      assessment (STNA)                                                                       March-2006 Apr-2006       Apr-2006      Sept-2006

                                                     23,000     7,000                         Feb-2004      March-      March-2004 July-2004
      idennficanonoftarget

I2.5 IVocationaltrainine on   I TR                   90,000    30,000                             Spreadover the life ofproject
    lidentifiedareas - core   I
                                                             I         I           I
                                                     500,000  100,000       CQ              Spreadover thelife ofproject starting2005
                                  t
      selectedyouth applicants



                                                     50,000   123,000       CQ      Feb-2004  March-2004 March-         Oct-2004
      developmentof                                                                 Feb2005   March-2005 2004           Sep-2005
      institutionalandpolicy                                                        Feb2006 March-2006 March-           Sep-2006
      development                                                                   Feb2007 March-2007 2005             Aug-2007
                                                                                                            March-
                                                                                                            2006
                                                                                                            March-
     I                        I                                                                             211117
 3.2 butreach activities-     I CS                   100,000   68,000       CQ              Spreadover thelife of project starring2005
      PublicInformation
      Campaign                                               I         I           I
                                                      56,WU    14,WU        CQ              Spreadover thelife ofproject starting2005
                                  +
      monitoring and evaluation
                                  FIG                                                        I             I           I              I
                                   Multi le 160,000   65,000   20,000       IC            .hnual contracts subjecrIOsatisfactoq performance
                                                        0      21,000      SBF               I             I           I
                                                                                                           I           I              II
                                                      16,000 I    0    I    NS     I         IFeb-2004     IMarch-     IMarch-2004    I
                                                     23,000 I     0    I    NS     I         IFeb-2004
                                                                                             I             IMarch-     IMarch-2004 I
                                                                                                           12004       I              I
 4.5 Pro'ectAudit                                     16,000      0        LCS            Annual contractssubjectto satisfactory performance
 4.6 Capacitybuilding for                   32,000   32,000       0                         Spreadover thelife ofproject startingZOOS
       ro'ect im lementation
                                                     40,000     5,000       oc              Spreadover thelife ofproject starting2005
      ex enditures
 4.8 PMUoperating                                       0      30,000      NBF              Spreadover thelife ofproject starting2005
      ex enditures
                                                    3,000,000 2,820,000                      I             I           I              I




                                                                   - 4 3 -

OverallProcurementRiskAssessment

Section 1: Capacity of the ImplementingAgency inProcurementand TechnicalAssistance
The capacity o f the implementing agency to conduct procurements has been assessed. The overall
procurement assessment is high-risk. The following action plan is recommendedas a result of this
assessment. a) C A P M U will provide assurance that the procurement specialist will devote at least 30% o f
histime for YIP procurement activities, especially at the early stages o fthe project. b) The work loado f
procurement specialist shall be assessedfor a period o f 6 months after the effectiveness o f the project. In
case o f shortcomings, two options will be considered i)a new full-time procurement specialist will be
hiredwho will be working solely for YIP, or ii)a hll-time procurement assistant will be hiredto assist thc
part-time procurement specialist. c) The procurement specialist, who is currently working for RISP, had
some training on Bank's procurement procedures given by ILO inTurin. To gain knowledge on
procurement o f C D D project, he will attend procurement trainings providedby ILO inTurin specifically
for C D D projects and will try to visit other PIUs who are managing similar projects with C D D componenl


Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Are the bidding documents for the procuremen
Procurement Strategy Paper status: The CPAR i s actions o f the first year ready by negotiation
finalized in June 2003.                                     IYES    NOX
Section2: Training, Informationand DevelopmentonProcurement
Estimated date o f IEstimated date oflhdicate if there is (Domestic Preference for      1Domestic
Project Launch      publication o f      procurement         Goods  Yes X       No       Preference for
Workshop            Genera1              subject to                                      Works, if
January 2004        Procurement          mandatory SPN in                                applicable
                    Notice               Development                                     Yes      NoX
                    12/16/2003           Business     Yes
                                         X     N o




Section3: ProcurementStaffing
Indicate name o f Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part o f Task Team responsible for the
procurement inthe Project:      ElmasArisoy (ECSPS)
Explainbriefly the expected role o f the Field Office inprocurement: There is no procurement specialist     ii
the Country Office. Procurement supervision shall be handledby HQbased PAS.




                                                    - 44 -

Disbursement
                                 Table B: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

         Expenditure Category             Amount in US$million                           ercentage
1. Goods                                            0.04           100YOo f foreign expenditures, 100% o f
                                                                   local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
                                                                   10'?4~f local expenditures for other items
                                                                       o
                                                                               procured locally

1. Consultants' services, including                 1.07                       100% for foreign
iuditingservices                                                                consulting f m s and
                                                                      foreign individual consultants, 75%
                                                                     for local consulting f m s and local
                                                                     individual consultants and 100% o f
                                                                            eligible social charges
3. Training                                         0.17                      100% for training
4. Grants under Grant    Agreements                 1.36            100% o f Grants disbursed under Grant
inder Parts A.2 (a) and B.1(c) o fthe                                             Agreements
Projects Program
5. (a) P I U and CAPMU staff                        0.16                    75% for local consulting
                                                                        f m s and local individual
                                                                   consultants and 100% o f eligible social
                                                                                    charges
5. (b) Other                                        0.05                             90%
5. Unallocated                                      0.15
                                                    0.00
                                                    0.00
                                                    0.00
                                                    0.00
                                                    0.00
                                                    0.00
                                                    0.00
                                                    0.00

Total Project Costs                                 3.00

Total                                               3.00




                                                  - 4 5 -

                           Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
           MOLDOVA YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATION CREDIT


A. Project Implementation Plan
Not applicable (not mandatory for LILs)

B. Bank Staff Assessments
ProcurementCapacityAssessment
FinancialManagement CapacityAssessment
Gender MainstreamingReport

C. Other


*Includingelectronicfiles




                                           - 46 -

                                      Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
                MOLDOVA YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATIONCREDIT
                                                         27-Oct-2003
                                                                                                                    Difference between expected
                                                                                                                             and actual
                                                                Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                  IBRD          IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO73626     2003 TRADE a TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                0.00        7.21                         0.00      7.51        0.00       0.00
PO74122     2003 AIDS CONTROL                                 0.00        0.00                         0.00      5.88        0.21       0.00

PO74469     2003 ws a SAN                                     0.00       12.00                         0.00     12.58        0.00       0.00

PO60434     2002 RURAL INV 8 SERVS (APL #1)                   0.00       10.50                         0.00      2.27       -7.35       0.00
PO51174     2001 HEALTH INVST FUND                            0.00       10.00                         0.00      8.80        3.87       0.24

PO44840     1999 SIF                                          0.00       15.00                         0.00      0.91       -0.08       0.00
PO51173     1999 SOCPROT                                      0.00       11.10                         0.00      7.63        6.57       0.00
PO35771     1998 FIRST CADASTRE                               0.00       15.90                         0.00      5.10        5.07      -0.32

PO35811     1997 PSDZ                                         0.00        9.00                         0.00      2.33        2.48       0.00
P008558     1997 GENEDUC                                      16.80       0.00                         5.53      2.47        3.31      -0.43
                                                                                                                                     __

                                                  Total:     16.80       90.71                         5.53     55 47       14.10      -0.51




                                                         MOLDOVA
                                                    STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                 HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                        June 30 - 2003
                                                      InMillions USDollars

                                                                            Committed                                Disbursed
                                                                          IFC                                    IFC
     FY Approval             Company                             Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic
     2000                    FinComBank                           1.50       0.00       0.00      0.00      1.50      0.00         0.00      0.00
     1997                    INCON                               4.93        2.00       0.00      0.00      4.93      2.00         0.00      0.00
     2002                    MEC BankMoldova                     0.00         1.37      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00         0.00      0.00
     2000                    MEC Moldova                         0.00        0.10       0.90      0.00      0.00      0.10         0.90      0.00
     2000                    Moldindconbank                      2.44        0.00       0.00      0.00      2.44      0.00         0.00      0.00
     2001                    UFMoldova                          25.00        0.00       0.00      0.00     10.00      0.00         0.00      0.00
     2001                    Victoriabank                        4.00        0.00       0.00      0.00      4.00      0.00         0.00      0.00
                             VoxTel                               0.00       0.00       0.13      0.00      0.00      0.00         0.13       0.00
     1999100101
                                    Total Portfolio:            37.87         3.47        1.03     0.00     22.87       2.10        1.03       0.00



                                                                      Approvals PendingCommitment

     FY Approval            Company                                 Loan        Equity         Quasi     Partic


                            Total Pending Commitment:                0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                              - 47 -

                                                          Annex 9: Country at a Glance
                       MOLDOVA:YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING 8, INNOVATION CREDIT

                                                                                  Europe 8
  POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                   Central       Low-
                                                                      Moldova           Asia     income            Developmentdiamond'
 2002
  Population,mid-year (millions)                                           4.3           476       2,495                           Life expectancy
 GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                       460          2,160         430
 GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                          2.0          1,030      1,072                                  T
 Average annual growth, 1996-02

  Population (%)                                                          -0.3            0.1         1.9
  Laborforce (%)                                                           0.3            0.4         2.3          GNI                                        Gross
                                                                                                                   per                                       primary
  Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                           capita                                  nrollment
  Poverty(% ofpopulation belownationalpoverty line)                        23
  Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                                  42              63         30
  Life expectancyat birth (years)                                          67              69          59                                 I
  Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                                   26              25         81
  Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                                             Access to improvedwater source
 Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                        92              91          76
  Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                         1             3          37
  Gross primaryenrollment 1% of school-agepopulation)                      84             102          95                  -Moldova
      Male                                                                 84             103         103                            Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                                            ~


      Female                                                               84             101          87

  KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                             1982        I992           2001        2002
                                                                                                                   Economic ratios.
  GDP (US$ billionsj                                                       2.0            1.5         1.6
  Gross domestic investmenVGDP                                            59.8          20.0         20.2                               Trade
  Exportsof goods and services/GDP                                        89.4          50.0         49.3
  Gross domestic savings/GDP                                              55.9           -4.4        -4.9
  Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                                              12.7        13.3

  Current account balance/GDP                                                            -6.7
  InterestpaymentslGDP                                                     0.0            3.3         2.6
  Total debVGDP                                                            1.4           83.5        86.4
  Total debt service/exports                                               0.6           14.7        22.3                                 L
  Presentvalue of debVGDP                                                                76.1
  Presentvalue of debVexports                                                            98.3                                         Indebtedness
                                             1982-92      1992-02        2001           2002     2002-06
  (average annualgrowth)                                                                                                     -Moldova
  GDP                                            -1.3          -4.0        6.1            7.2         5.0
  GDP Der caDita                                 -2.0          -3.8        6.3            7.6         5.5                             Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                                              ~




~~




  STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

  (% of GDP)                                                                                                       15
  Agriculture                                                             50.9           26.0        25.1                                           h       -    A I
  Industry                                                        ....    31.5           24.1        24.2           0
     Manufacturing                                                                       18.2        18.2
  Services                                                        ..      17.6           49.8        50.7         -15

  Privateconsumption                                                      25.9           92.1        91.1         -30 1
  Generalgovernmentconsumption                                    ....    18.2           12.3        13.8                      V G D i           +GDP
  Importsof goods and services                                    ..      93.3           74.4        74.4


                                                          1982-92 1992-02                            2ooz        1 Growth  of exports and imports (Oh)
  (average annual growth)                                                                                                                                           1
  Agriculture                                                             -6.0            4.3                                                                       I
  Industry
     Manufacturing
  Services                                                        ..       2.0            -0.5

  Privateconsumption                                                       8.8            8.2
  Generalgovernmentconsumption                                    ..      -9.5           15.6        23.2
  Gross domestic investment                                       ..     -12.3            -8.8       10.4
  Importsof goods and services                                    ..       6.0           10.9

  'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                                   - 48 -

                                                                                                                                Moldova

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                 1982      1992        2001     2002
Domesticprices                                                                            Inflation(O h )


(% change)                                                                               50 T

Consumer prices                                                           9.8     4.4    40

Implicit GDP deflator                                     945.0         11.9      8.1    30
                                                                                         20
Governmentfinance                                                                        10
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)                                                        0
Current revenue                                            22.4         29.1    28.6
Current budget balance                                      -2.6          1.7    -1.oi             -GDP          deflator   +CPI
Overall surDlus/deficit                                    -26.6         -0.1    -2.9


TRADE
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                 1982      1992        2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                            Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports(fob)                                          868          569     611
 Live animalsand animal products                                          18      20
 Vegetable products                                                       79      86
 Manufactures                                                            115     119
Total imports(cif)                                          905          882     972
 Food                                                                     38      29
 Fueland energy                                                          201     218
 Capital goods                                                           120     131
                                                                                                 96      97    98    99      00     01
Exportprice index (1995=100)                                             275     284
Importprice index (19951100)                                             245     247                    Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                112     115

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                  1982     1992        2001     2002     1
(US$ millions)                                                                            Currentaccount balance to GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services                                903          739     805
Importsof goods and services                                942        1,101    1,215
Resourcebalance                                              -39        -362    -410

Net inwme                                                                101     163
Net currenttransfers                                                     152     152

Current acwunt balance                                                    -99

Financingitems(net)                                                      108
Changesin net reserves                                        15          -10     -28

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)                                     229     273
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)                          6.80E-2         12.9    13.6

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                  1982     1992         2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                                             Compositionof 2002debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed                           39       1,235    1,401
  IBRD                                                         0          181     186    I
  IDA                                                          0          113     145                          G:76       A:186

Total debt service                                             5          168    231
  IBRD                                                         0           17      17                                                 145
  IDA                                                          0            1       1

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                               1           54                 F 594                                  c 152
  Officialcreditors                                           30           -8      -4
  Privatecreditors                                             0            4     -17
  Foreigndirect investment                                     0           94
  Portfolioequity                                              0            4                                         E: 145
World Bank program
  Commitments                                                  0            5      41     A IBRD
                                                                                            -                                   E Bilateral
                                                                                                                                 -
  Disbursements                                                0           18      26     B IDA
                                                                                            -            D Other multilateral
                                                                                                          .                     F Private
                                                                                                                                 -
  Principalrepayments                                          0            7       9     C IMF
                                                                                            .                                   G Short-terr
                                                                                                                                    ~


  Net flows                                                    0           11      18
  Interestpayments                                             0           11       9
  Net transfers                                                0            0       9

mote: I nis ta5le was proaucea from tne uevelopment tconomics central aataaase.                                                        WZbIULI




                                                                   - 49 -

    Additional Annex 10 Resultsfrom the Multisector Team Learning (MTL) Initiative
            MOLDOVA YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATIONCREDIT

PreviousYouth-RelatedMissions in Moldova.As part of the ECA youth MTL initiative, a fact-finding
mission visited Moldova in March 2002: (a) to collect key stakeholders' views on the vulnerability and
exclusion o f teenagers and young adults (tineret) and to identify related gaps inpolicy responses; and (b) to
learn more about the experience o f the agency devoted specifically to youth, the Youth and Sports
Department (YSD).       The State Department for Youth and Sports has the equivalent rank o f a Ministry
since 2001, a Youth division with its own budget-a good illustration o f the commitment o f the government
to the problems o f youth. Inaddition, the staff andthe budget o f the youth division may be small at central
level, but the Youth Division can count with a large number o f youth and sports workers throughout the
country. This first missionhadmet with a wide array of actors incentral andlocal government as well as in
civil society, including the President o f the Youth Councils, other active youth NGOs and youth themselves
through preliminary focus groups. Rapid fieldwork was conducted by a local research NGO under the
supervision o f an international consultant in March and April 2002. Ten focus groups were conducted in
three different regions and individual open-ended interviews were held with poor rural and urban youth to
illustrate special cases. District locations included Chisinau, Baltsi, central Orhei and Cahul. InJune 2002,
the Moldovan government communicated its interest inthe YSD getting assistance from the World Bank in
the improvement and development o f its program on youth development and inclusion. Based on the
government's request and the good development o f pilot activities on youth issues (see below), a project
identification mission was held last February.

Reviewof the PilotCDD SmallGrantsProgram. To start the dialogue on a concrete basis, the World
BankYouth team initiated apilot project for localyouth-serving associations, whichwas executed bythe
YSD between October 2002 and May 2003 and financed by an award from the Norwegian Trust Fundfor
Community Driven Development (CDD) for a total amount o f $US 20,000. The main objectives o f the
pilot focus on buildingcapacity and testing a process o f cooperation between key players, rather generating
large-scale projects. The mission learned o fvery positive developments interms o f infomation
dissemination, number o f receivedproposals (75 with a wide regional coverage) and full respect o fthe
transparent and merit-based rules, which had been established ina short operational manual. Nineteen local
youth-serving associations andNGOs implemented their sub-projects.

Key Social Findings. Moldova is one o f the youngest countries in Central and Eastern Europe. However,
young adults leave the country inmassive numbers, some indangerous circumstances, as the rise inhuman
trafficking illustrates. Many teenagers and young adults feel dissatisfied with poor employment prospects,
poor quality o f life and lack o f visible programs, which directly address their specific interests and needs.
Consultations with various stakeholders andwith youth themselves found that both income andnon-income
dimensions o f poverty matter for them to feel included in society. Youth experience exclusion from the
labor market and self-employment opportunities. They rarely possess physical assets such as land or
housing, which could serve as collateral and so they have little access to credit. They also experience
isolation, vulnerability, powerlessness, idleness (due to lack o f free-time activities)-all o f which encourages
risky behaviors such as drug addiction or engagement in illegal activities. Their disadvantage derives from
lack o f access to assets inthree inter-related dimensions: (i)
                                                              economic (assets leading to income generation);
(ii)social (access to information; social capital, free-time activities; care and guidance); and (iii)
participation in decision-making. On this basis, it was agreed that the future project on youth inclusion
would be more effective if it combined economic and social approaches, rather than having fragmented
sectoral interventions.




                                                      - 50 -

Employment Related Findings. The team was able to conduct investigations on possible constraints to
youth self and wage employment. Discussions were conducted with Bank teams and PIU responsible for
the Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP) and the Private Sector Development Project (PSD 11);
government officials; local private businesses; representatives o f financial institutions; NGOs workmg on
youth employment-related issues; and associations o f small entrepreneurs. The key findings have informed
the proposed component on support to economic participation and they are summarized below.              Youth
Entrv into WaaeEmplovment. Despite the overall depressed situation inthe labor market and the low level
o f labor demand inMoldova, the fact that the unemployment rate among youth is about 3 times higher than
that o f adults indicates the existence o f specific barriers to youth employment. Meetings with key
informants pointed out that among various impediments to youth wage employment, those that could be
worth addressed on a pilot basis by the youth LIL are the skills mismatches and the lack of exposure to
the world of work. Several employers pointed to the shortages o f young people with techcal skills
adapted to the new technologies. A small but growing number o f successful enterprises in Moldova are
indeed using modern equipment and technologies that are not available in the soviet-inherited vocational
schools, leaving many vocational school graduates with irrelevant skills. At the same time, several
employers believed that the education system was producing an excess o f qualified generalists finishing
tertiary education such as jurists or economists who could not be absorbed locally and had to leave the
country when they could. To some extent, this echoes the results of the Labor Force Survey (LFS) showing
that the most educated youth with tertiary education did not have a lower risk o f being unemployed than
those with secondary or primary education. The lack o f exposure to the world o f work was seen as an
equally important impediment to youth wage employment, as prior work experience and personal contacts
with employers were perceived as important hiring determinants among Moldovan firms. A pilot activity to
facilitate entry into wage employment for targeted vulnerable youth could therefore seek to reduce skills
mismatches and provide targeted youth with some work experience and an opportunity to develop personal
contacts useful for their entry in the job market.             Supportina Youth Entrepreneurship. While
self-employment is often identified as a route out o f unemployment, especially when the level o f labor
demand is tight, fewer youth than adults embarks into self-employment in Moldova. According to several
observers, this reflects a combination o f factors including the lack of information on self-employment
opportunities, the lack of business skills, and the existence o f barriers to access micro credit. Since
many young people grow up in Moldova with no entrepreneurial role models in their families or
communities, they will not consider self-employment unless strongly encouraged to do so. The lack o f
business skills among those young people interested in creating their own business was seen as another
major impediment to youth entrepreneurship. Finally, access to micro credits even among those willing and
able to set-up their own business remained another major problem for young people. To some extent, this
was apparently due to the reluctance o f financial institutions to provide micro credits to individuals with no
collateral even if they had sound business plans. In addition, there is some evidence that even when youth
have the necessary collateral -this would be the case, for instance, for those who worked abroad and came
back with some savings - the Banks remain reluctant to provide loans. Financial institutions in Moldova
were reported to have very little experience working with young people and to lack trust in them. Bankers
often tend to treat youth as a homogeneous group associated with a very high risk o f delinquency, without
realizing that some o f them could actually become successful entrepreneurs and profitable clients. A pilot
activity to support youth entrepreneurship could therefore seek to increase the level o f information and the
skills necessary to start-up a business, and to give an opportunity to banks to experiment working with
youth and to test whether youth could become a new profitable line o fbusiness.




                                                    -51   -

            Additional Annex 11: Outcome-Based Conceptual Intervention Model
             MOLDOVA YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATION CREDIT




T a r g e t                                                      Project O u t p u t s                        E x p e c t e d O u t c o m e s
Sub-Groups                          Activities




                             Component 1. Youth-friendly Spaces and Innovative Service Delivery


          Idle youth (residents)             Create youth regional                  Access increased to                    Idle youth use safe
          in the general                     multi-service centers                  safe free-time                         spaces f multi-
          population, ages                   and village-level spaces               activities, skills                     service centers,
          14-30.                  4forinnovativeservice                +buildingand                         4acceptinformation
                                             delivery.                               associative                           and services, move
                                                                                     development (in safe                   f r o m passi\-e t o
                                                                                     spaces / multi-                       active in problem
                                                                                     service centers).                      solving, reduce risky
                                                                                                                            practices, and lower
                                                                                                                            vulnerability.




          At-risk youth:                     Innovative outreach &                   Access increased to                    D r o p outs: join non-
          D r o p outs;                      service-provision                       life-skills & self                     formal education
          Insufficient parental   +programs(through
                                             subprojects and           +             esteem improvement                     and/or reintegrate to
          care;                                                                      techniques, substance                  school;
          Heavy substance                    participating NGOs /                                                           Insufficient Darental
          abuse.                             CBOs).                                                                         m:increasedlife
                                                                                                                            skills & self esteem
                                                                                                                            Heavv substance
                                  -                                                                                         &ES reduced
                                                                                                                            substance abuse.



          Y o u t h as fathers and           Innovative sub-projects                 Access improved t o                    Increased
           mothers (age 18-30)               for support to young                    counseling, conflict                   cooperation and
                                             parents / families.       +resolutionskills                                    harmonious relations
                                                                                     development.                           within young
                                                                                                                            households; reduced
                                                                                                                            domestic violence
                                                                                                                            toward w o m e n &
                                                                                                                            children.



                                                     Component 2.1


           18-30 yrs o l d rural               Create youth                             Access improved
           & per urban youth                                                            t o business skills,                f o r m new businesses
          with promising                                                                                                    or expand existing
                                                                                        for promising                       ones
           time borrower
                                                                                        entrepreneurs




                                                               - 52 -

 Target                                                                 ExpectedOutcomes
  Sub-Groups            Activities              Project Outputs




                     Component 2.2 Partnership and Training for Employment




                        program. Identify                                Increased
                        business needs in        demand driven           employment success
education & have        terms of skills          vocational training     among targeted

                                                 & internships
employment
experience




                Component 3 Capacity buildingand youth policy development



                                                                        ,
                     knowledge sharing            knowledge level          Improved
                                                                           cooperation among
  agencies &                                      target entities re:      target entities around
  business                                       youth approaches          youthissues.




                                         - 53 -

                        Additional Annex 12 Key Performance Indicators
             MOLDOVA YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATIONCREDIT

Percentagesrefer to proportion o f sites expected to have youth targeted interventions which were satisfactory (S) or
highly satisfactory (HS) with respect to positive behavioral changes among youth

                                                Baseline       Date         Mid-term          Date         End of Project

                                                              Target          Actual         Target            Target
                                                                                                               Actual

To determine         1. Evidence of            NA                                         65%*             30%
(through pilot       significant increases ir
testing) whether     positive economic and
targetedyoung        social practices among
women and men        targeted youth in
(age 16-30) from     participating local
poor / vulnerable    areas (% periodic
rural and            evaluation reports
peri-urban           rated S or H S for each
households in        youth-targeted
participating local  intervention),
areas will adopt     including:
positive economic          organizational
and social           activity for community NA                                            65%              80%
practices in         andfor youth problem
response to an       solving.
integrated and              safe free-time     NA                                         65%              10%
inclusivepackage     activities.
o f youth-oriented         ICT literacy and    NA                                         65%              80%
services and         other skills.
opportunities.             entrepreneurial     NA                                         50%              80%
                     activity
                           creation o f        NA                                         65%              80%
                     formal youth-owned
                     businesses (with
                     commercial bank
                     financing).
                           youth               NA                                         50%              70%
                     employment within
                     participating local
                     businesses.
                     2. Evidence o f
                     significant reductions
                     inriskyI negative
                     behavior(s) (Le. violen   NA                                         40%              60%
                     behavior, alcohol\drug
                     abuse) among targeted
                     youth in youth-orientec
                     services and
                     opportunities (%
                     periodic evaluation

                     I



                                                        - 54 -

                   reports rated S or H S
                   for each youth-targeted
                   intervention).



                                          Baseline     Date   Mid-term     Date  Endof Project
  Project Outputs    OutputIndicators                 Target  Actual      Target    Target
                                                                                    Actual
 l.Youth-Friendly        Significant
 Spaces and         degree o f coverage
 Innovative Servicf andpenetration of
 Delivery          targeted youth

 ...throughyouth    sub-groups with the
                    offered programs:
 centers (1.1) and  - coverage o f target
 sup-projects       groups >>             0%                           50%        70%
 (competitive       - %youth residents
 grants): (1.2)     who become            0%                           15%        20%
 Improved access fo volunteers inyouth
 targeted young     andor community
 womedgirls and     services >>
 meniboys to             Numberof
 information,       youth friendly
 guidance,          centers and spaces    3                            20         45
 youth-friendly     usedbyyouth.
 spaces, special         Significant
 programs and       proportion o f
 participation in   targeted youth elect
 decision-making.   to participate in
                    offered programs in   0%                           15%        25%
                    local areas:

                    m>>
                    Idle vouth (age

                    At-riskYouth
                    - age 14-16
                    drop-outs >>          0%                           15%        25%
                    - age 16-25
                    drop-outs >>          0%                           25%        40%
                    - age 14-30 with
                    heavy substance       0%                            15%       30%
                    addiction >>
                    - age 14-18 with
                    insufficient parental 0%                           20%        40%
                    care >>

                    Youth as fathers I
 ...through         mothers
                    - age 18-30 young
 capacity building: parents >>            0%                           25%        50%
 (1.2)
 Capacity of              Significant
 participatingNGOi  proportion o f
 & CBOs             participating NGO
L



                                                 - 55 -

strengthenedto     staff & CBO
deliver specific   members attend
youth-oriented     relevanttraining
activities.        underproject
                   sponsorship.
                                                               ~~




                                        Baseline     Date    Mid-term     Date  End of Project
 ProjectOutputs     OutputIndicators                 Target  Actual     Target  rarget  Actua
2. Pro-Youth       output 2.1:
Employment               Highinterest
Initiatives        shown by targeted    NA                            40%       60%
Output 2.1: Accesr youth inadvisory
improvedfor some services and
1500targeted youtl business equity
to training,       grants I financing;
advisory services        Numberof
and financing for  equity grants &
business formation loansmade for        NA                            160       320
(or expansioni.e.  creationor
referringto moving expansionof
from informal to   micro-enterprises
formal).           (320 expected).

                   output 2.2:
                         Significant
Output 2.2: Acces! number (and
improvedfor        percentage) of local 0 (0%)                        150(5%)   250(8%)
targetedyouthto    businessesjoin the
employment         proposedbusiness
opportunities      network(s);
through                  High
participatinglocal percentage of
businesses.        participating        0%                            80%       80%
                   businessesremain
                   active inthe
                   business network(s);
                         Numberof
                   intemshipsand
                   mentorship's made
                   availableby          0                             700       1200
                   businesses inknown
                   job growth
                   categories.




                                               - 56 -

                                             Baseline        Date         Mid-term         Date       Endof Project
 ProjectOutputs         Output Indicators                   Target         Actual         Target           Target
                                                                                                           Actual
3. Institutionaland
Policy
Development
output3.1             Overall increased
Improvedcontents trust,
o f the national     information-sharing
youth strategy and   and cooperation
its linkages with thebetween different
EGPRSP, improved     youth-serving public
capacity o f public  and private
youth-serving        stakeholders, as
providers and        evidenced by:
decision makers.            improved
                     national youth strategy                                          Yes             Ves
                     document i.e. outreach
                     to excluded youth,
                     linkges with EGPRSP.
Output 3.2 Internal          Development of
and external         regional youth          None                                     30% o f         30% of
communication        strategies and action                                            #electedregions selected regions
activities completed plans.
                            capacity buildingNone                                     Partial         Yes
Output 3.3 Timely, activities completed.
participatory and           Internal and
professional         external                None                                     Partial         Yes
monitoring           communication
                     activities completed.   NA                                       Yes             Yes
                            satisfactory M&E
                     rating in PSR.*
4. Project
Management             Project implemented
Output 4.1 Timely      successfully within
and professional       expected time,
management,            budget and
reporting, and         performance
delivery o f project   parameters
outputs                - PSR- IP & D O       NA                                        S I S          S I S
                       ratings.'*
 These indicators are to be monitored by the World Bank, rather than the implementing agency.




                                                     - 57 -


