Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3847 MD 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Youth Inclusion Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 12, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3847 MD 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), with the modifications set forth below constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“(c)  Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means: (i) any NGO (hereinafter defined) or CBO 
(hereinafter defined) participating in the competitive Grants Program (hereinafter 
defined) under Part A. 2 (a) of the Project; and (ii) any individual or group of individuals 
meeting the eligibility criteria for an equity building Grant (hereinafter defined) under 
Part B. 1 (c) of the Project, all in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to 
in the Operational Manual (hereinafter defined);  
 
(b) 
“CAPMU” means the Consolidated Agricultural Project Management 
Unit established by the Borrower by government decision No. 878, dated September 29, 
1999, responsible for the fiduciary functions for the Project; 
 
(c ) 
“CBO” means a community based organization eligible for participation 
in the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(d) 
“EGPRSP” means the Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper; 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f ) 
“Grant” means: (i) a grant made or to be made to a Beneficiary for a 
Sub-project (hereinafter defined) under Part A. 2 (a) of the Project; and (ii) an equity 
building grant made or to be made to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project under Part B. 1 (c) 
of the Project as collateral for accessing credit from financial institutions and to be used 
in the carrying out of said Sub-project,  all in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in the Operational Manual; 
 
(g) 
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a 
Beneficiary and the CAPMU, through the PIU (hereinafter defined), pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, for the provision to a Beneficiary of a 
Grant for: (i) the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part A. 2 (a) of the Project; and (ii) 
the building of equity for use as collateral for a Sub-project under Part B. 1 (c) of the 
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Grant Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Grants Program” means the competitive grants program under Part A. 2 
(a) of the Project providing support to civil society initiatives for youth economic and 
social inclusion through three different lines of Grants, defined according to proposed 
themes and activities and amount of proposals, and financing eligible Sub-projects in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual;  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization eligible for participation 
in the Project in accordance with the criteria and principles set forth or referred to in the 
Operational Manual;   
 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of the Project, prepared by the YSD (hereinafter 
defined) and adopted by the PSC (hereinafter defined), as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Association; 
 
(k) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit responsible for 
coordination and technical implementation of the Project, established by the Borrower 
within the legal framework of the CAPMU; 
 
(l) 
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee established by the 
Borrower to provide policy guidance for Project implementation; 
 
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(n) 
“Sub-project” means: (i) a specific project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary under Part A.2 (a) of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a Grant in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual; and 
(ii) a specific project to be carried out by a Beneficiary under Part B. 1 (c) of the Project 
for which an equity building grant is made to said Beneficiary as collateral for accessing 
credit from financial institutions in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred 
to in the Operational Manual;  
 
(o) 
“YSD” means the Borrower’s Youth and Sports Department; and 
 
(p) 
“Youth Strategy” means the national youth strategy of the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,100,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i)  
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.1, A.2 (b) and (c), B 1. (a), (b), 
Page  5
-
4
-
and (d), B.2, C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; 
and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree amounts to be paid) on account 
of Grants under Grant Agreements under Parts A.2 (a) and B.1 (c) of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2008 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 2014 and ending December 1, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2023 shall be one 
Page  6
-
5
-
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or 
more after the date on which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c)  
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and social services practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Parts A.2 (a) and B.1 (c) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Credit available to eligible Beneficiaries under 
a
grant agreement (the Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the CAPMU, 
through the PIU, and each Beneficiary, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association and which shall include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise  
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive a Grant Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
Page  8
-
7
-
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of
 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report for such period, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and  
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semi-annual period 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first semi-annual period; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after each subsequent semi-annual period, and shall cover such semi-annual period. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has adopted the Operational 
Manual satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
7,
Cosmonautilor Street 
 
Chisinau 2005 
 
Republic of Moldova 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
(3732) 22810    
(3732) 221 307 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By: /s/ Mihail Manoli  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Luca Barbone  
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
11 -
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
28,000 
100 % of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% of 
 
local expenditures (ex- 
 
factory cost) and 100% 
of 
 
local expenditures for 
other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services, 
743,000 
100% for foreign          
 
including auditing  
 
consulting firms and 
 services 
 
foreign 
individual 
 
consultants, 96% for 
 
local consulting firms 
 
and 80% for local 
 
individual consultants 
 
and 100% of eligible 
 
social charges 
 
(3) Training 
122,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Grants under Grant 
946,000 
100% of Grants 
 
Agreements under  
 
disbursed under 
 
Parts A.2 (a) and B.1 (c) 
 
Grant Agreements 
 
of
the Project 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(5) 
Incremental Operating       
 
 
Costs of the CAPMU 
 
and the PIU 
 
 
(a)  CAPMU and PIU  
112,000                96% for local consulting  
 
staff  
 
firms and 80% for local 
individual consultants 
and 100% of eligible 
social charges 
 
(b)  Other 
32,000              
 90% 
 
(6) 
Unallocated                                
117,000
TOTAL  
2,100,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c)  
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; 
 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual 
consultant who is not a citizen of the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm or NGO 
which is registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; 
Page  14
-
13 -
(f) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a citizen of the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(g) 
the term “eligible social charges” means the employer’s contribution 
to social and medical charges assessed by the Borrower on employment contracts 
with citizens of the Borrower; 
 
(h) 
the term “training” means: (i) skills enhancement activities for youth 
(ages 14-30 years old) in Project selected regions; and (ii) capacity building for 
youth policy formulation and Project implementation for central and local 
government staff, PIU staff, and youth-serving CBOs and NGOs; and  
 
(i) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs of the CAPMU and the PIU” 
means expenditures incurred by the CAPMU and the PIU on account of management of 
Project implementation for office supplies, rent, utilities, communications, office 
equipment, operating expenses, bank charges for the Special Account, fuel, travel 
expenditures for Project purposes and per diem allowances, and salaries of staff, 
including eligible social charges, but excluding salaries of civil servants, and such other 
expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; (c) incremental operating costs of the CAPMU and the PIU; (d) Grants; and 
(e) training, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to promote and support the participation of young 
people (ages 14-30 years old), especially the most vulnerable, in the economic and social 
life of their communities through an integrated package of youth oriented services and 
opportunities in selected regions through: (i) improving the responsiveness of key public 
and private service providers to the needs, interests, and potential of young people; and 
(ii) strengthening the partnerships among them. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
 
Part A
:
Youth-friendly Spaces and Innovative Service Delivery
1. 
Establishment of Regional Youth-friendly Centers
.
Establishment of a 
network of resource centers and youth-friendly spaces for: (a) safe and 
constructive free-time activities; (b) skills enhancement (life skills, computer and 
information and communication technology skills); (c) orientation, guidance and 
counseling on youth-relevant subjects (including professional 
orientation/counseling for young parents); and (d) distribution and sharing of 
information on youth trends, opportunities and services for youth, and training 
facilities and resources for youth service providers. 
 
2. 
Support to civil society for youth economic and social inclusion
.
(a) 
Financing of eligible Sub-projects through provision of Grants from the Grants 
Program to eligible Beneficiaries in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Operational Manual; (b) provision of technical assistance for 
capacity-building aiming at strengthening the capacity for innovative service 
delivery to youth, especially the most disadvantaged;  and (c) financing of: (i) 
capacity building activities for youth-serving NGOs and CBOs, including training 
of trainers and regional training for outreach and inclusive service delivery and 
training of selected Grant applicants; and (ii) regional and specific promotion 
activities for the Grants Program. 
 
Part B
:
Pro-Youth Employment Initiatives
1. 
Support to Youth Entrepreneurship.
Piloting of activities to support the 
target population (18-30 years old) in the creation and financing of self-
employment opportunities in Project selected regions through: (a) provision of  
business training; (b) assisting in the design and implementation of a business 
Page  16
-
15 -
plan; (c) rewarding the best candidates with  equity building Grants for the 
carrying out of eligible Sub-projects; and (d) linking the target population to the 
formal financial sector, all in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
Partnership and Training for Employment.
Facilitation of youth entry into 
wage employment, through the development of a network of local private 
businesses and the financing of: (a) a skills and training needs assessment among 
partner enterprises (STNA);  (b) the identification of target group-vulnerable 
youth and outreach promotion; (c) core training or counseling services, including 
professional orientation, and job-searching skills enhancement; (d) job specific 
training package based on the results of the STNA, including: (i) vocational 
training courses (VTC); (ii) internship subsequent to the VTC during a 4 month 
period offered at the partner enterprises; and (iii) financing of per-diem of trainees 
(for the duration of VTC) and cofinancing with partner enterprises for the 
duration of the internship.  
 
Part C
:
Institutional and Policy Development
1. 
 Strategy, policy development and capacity-building through the provision 
of technical assistance to strengthen the content and the monitoring of the Youth 
Strategy and its linkages with the EGPRSP, with a focus on main policy gaps 
including strategies and policies to reach and support youth with less 
opportunities; youth employment policies (both entrepreneurship and wage 
employment) and financial dimensions of youth policy (cost-benefits analysis of 
investment in youth development and inclusion). 
 
2.  
Promotion and external communication activities aiming at broad dissemination of 
Project options and opportunities, creating awareness and incentives for young people to 
use these opportunities rather than engage in risky behaviors, and creating incentives for 
key Project partners to join and/or stay in the program. 
 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance for the development of a comprehensive, 
learning oriented participatory system of monitoring and evaluation. 
 
Part D
:
Project Implementation Support
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, including auditing services, training, equipment, 
and incremental operating costs for the operation of the PIU for purposes of Project 
management and implementation. 
 
Page  17
-
16 -
2. 
 Provision of a portion of incremental operating costs of the CAPMU for its 
fiduciary functions for the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2008. 
Page  18
-
17 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Readily available off-shelf goods estimated to cost less than $100,000  equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Locally available off-shelf goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Community 
Participation
Page  19
-
18 -
Goods required for Sub-projects under Part A.2 (a)  of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association as set forth in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
4. Commercial 
Practices
Goods under equity Grants under Part B.1 (c) of the Project may be procured at 
competitive prices in accordance with established commercial practices of the respective 
Beneficiaries in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.12 of the Guidelines for 
goods, provided that such commercial practices involve obtaining quotations from more 
than one supplier, with due account being taken, in addition to prices, to such relevant 
factors as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and availability of 
maintenance and spare parts therefore. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to all contracts procured in accordance with international 
competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first contract procured in accordance with 
international shopping procedures; and (ii) the first contract procured in accordance with 
national shopping procedures; the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(A) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(B) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
Page  20
-
19 -
(C) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultancy services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Auditing services estimated to cost less than $16,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are a natural continuation of previous work, must be selected 
rapidly due to an emergency need, have an exceptional nature where only one firm is 
qualified or has experience for the assignment, and are estimated to cost less than 
Page  21
-
20 -
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may,
 with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for strengthening Project management and 
implementation for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) the first contract for the employment of consulting 
firms irrespective of the value of the contract; and (ii) each contract for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first contract for the employment of individual 
consultants irrespective of the value of the contract; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$50,000, the terms of reference of the consulting firms and the individual consultants 
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  
Page  22
-
21 -
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-
22 -
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in the Operational Manual and this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU until completion of the Project with staff, 
resources, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and shall assign to it 
responsibility for coordination and technical implementation of the Project. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain the CAPMU until completion of the Project with 
staff, resources, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and shall assign to 
it the responsibility of performing the fiduciary functions for the Project, including: 
 
(a)  
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit; 
 
(b)  
management of the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
 
(c) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging 
for the audit thereof;  
 
(d) 
participation in administration of bidding procedures and of contracts 
under the Project; and 
 
(e) 
ensuring compliance of operations under the Project with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual and this 
Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through the CAPMU and the PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association by March 31 in each year, for its review and concurrence: (a) an annual work 
program for the Project for the following calendar year, including procurement and 
financing plans; and (b) an annual progress report. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PSC until completion of the Project, with 
composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.  
 
6. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in  form and content at all 
times satisfactory to the Association, and shall include in the Operational Manual  
provisions governing the activities under the Project, concerning, inter alia: (a) the 
eligibility criteria for Beneficiaries; (b) the principles and procedures to be followed for 
the appraisal, approval and supervision of Sub-projects and equity building Grants; and 
(c) the terms and conditions to be included in the Grant Agreements. 
 
Page  24
-
23 -
7. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;  
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about May 31, 2006, a mid-term report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by August 30, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  25
-
24 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Principal Terms and Conditions of 
the Grant Agreements 
 
The following terms and conditions shall be included in the Grant Agreements 
entered into pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement: 
 
1. 
The first three Grant Agreements under Part A.2 (a) of the Project and the first 
three Grant Agreements under Part B.1 (c) of the Project shall be subject to the 
Association’s prior review and agreement. 
 
2. 
Each Grant shall be provided on the basis of a standard Grant Agreement 
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual.  
Each Grant Agreement shall include inter alia: (a) the purpose and use of the Sub-
project and cost sharing to be made by the Beneficiary with respect to the 
financing of the Sub-project or the purpose and use of the Sub-project for the 
equity building Grant; (b) the obligation of the Beneficiary to maintain records 
and accounts for expenditures incurred under the Sub-project under Part A.2 (a) 
of the Project or the Sub-project under Part B.1 (c) of the Project, for which the 
equity building Grant is provided, and financed from the proceeds of the Credit 
and to submit said records and accounts to the CAPMU, through the PIU, at the 
request of the CAPMU or the PIU; (c)  the obligation of the Beneficiary, at the 
request of the Borrower and the Association, to exchange views with the 
Borrower and the Association with regard to the progress of  the Sub-project 
under Part A.2 (a) of the Project  or the Sub-project under Part B.1 (c) of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under the respective Grant Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and to enable 
representatives of the Borrower and  the Association to visit the facilities, or other 
activities to be financed under the Grant Agreement.  
 
3. 
Procurement of the goods and services required for Parts A.2 (a) and B.1 
(c) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  26
-
25 -
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 350,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
Page  27
-
26 -
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  28
-
27 -
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
