                                    Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                 Report No: AB205

Project Name                       MOLDOVA - YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING & INNOVATION CREDIT
Region                             Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                             Other social services (50%); Adult literacy/non-formal education (20%);
                                   Vocational training (15%); Information technology (15%)
Theme                              Participation and civic engagement (P); Other social development (P); Education
                                   for the knowledge economy (S); Rural non-farm income generation (S); Gender
                                   (S)
Project                            P082878
Borrower(s)                        MOLDOVA GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency(ies)           THE STATE DEPARTMENT FOR YOUTH AND SPORTS
                                   Address: Department of Youth and Sports, 73 Stefan Cel Mare Blvd., Chisinau,
                                   Moldova
                                   Contact Person: Mr. Sergiu Cornetski, General Director or Mrs. Liliana
                                   Palihovich, Head of the Youth Division
                                   Tel: 373-2-277569 or 277233          Fax: 373-2-277352          Email:
                                   Dtsmoldova@yahoo.com or Dtscentrutin@mdl.net
Environment Category               C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                  January 13, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date                October 24, 2003
Bank Approval Date                 December 29, 2003

1. Country and Sector Background
Strengthen human capital and social capital necessary for growth. Reduce youth poverty in both its income
and non-income dimensions (reduced
vulnerability, increased empowerment)

PRSP goal: conditions established for using youth's "economic and social potential" by increasing their
participation in the economic, social and
political processes of development.

2. Objectives
The pilot will test to what extend targeted youth (age 14-30) from poor/vulnerable rural and peri-urban
households in participating local areas actually adopt positive economic and social practices (and reduce
risky behaviors) as expected, in response to the integrated and inclusive package of services and
opportunities that are being offered in the LIL.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The main purpose of the Learning Innovation Credit (LIC) is to determine (through pilot testing) whether
targeted youth (14-30) from poor/vulnerable rural and peri-urban households in participating local areas
will adopt positive economic/social practices and reduce risky behaviors in response to an integrated and
inclusive package of youth-oriented services and opportunities.

Positive economic practices refer to youth investing in skills and assets leading to better wage and
self-employment opportunities. Positive social practices refer to youth using assets, safe spaces and
opportunities which will help them: (a) cope with or avoid risky behaviors (substance abuse, violence,

                                                         2
                                                                                                            PID


illegal migration with exposure to exploitation); and (b) participate actively in the design and
implementation of activities which can make a positive contribution to their own problems and to those of
their communities.

Why the piloting? Conducted in the context of the Multisector Team Learning program (MTL), previous
social analysis has shown the multidimensionality of youth poverty and exclusion. Their disadvantage
derives from lack of access to assets in three inter-related dimensions: (i) economic (assets leading to
income generation); (ii) social (access to information; social capital, free-time activities; care and
guidance); and (iii) participation in decision-making. As a result, youth poverty covers income dimensions,
as young women and men experience exclusion from the labor market and self-employment opportunities.
They rarely possess assets which could serve as collateral and so they have little access to credit.
However, youth poverty also covers non-income dimensions i.e. vulnerability and empowerment-related
dimensions. Youth were found to experience isolation, vulnerability, powerlessness, idleness (due to lack of
free-time activities) all of which encourages risky behaviors such as drug addiction or engagement in illegal
activities. These phenomena tend to be particularly acute in rural and small towns (See Annex 10 for social
analysis findings).

These findings clearly point to the limitations of a sole reliance on sectoral approaches. Thus far, an
integrated approach has not been tested in Moldova and this is why learning is needed. The integrated
package will entail developing partnerships between different service providers and synergies between three
inter-related types of interventions in selected regions: (a) economic approach, creating enabling conditions
for facilitating access of youth to skills and assets leading to better economic participation; (b) support to
initiatives for promoting youth empowerment and reducing their vulnerability; and (c) institutional
approach, developing the capacity of a network of government and civil society partners to address youth
exclusion in an integrated manner.


4. Description
(See Annex 2 for a detailed description of components and Annex 3 for estimated project costs)

A Regional, Multi-Partner Approach.
The project strategy of integration of economic, social and institutional approaches to youth inclusion is
relatively new to the Moldovan context and synergies are more likely to occur and produce results if they
are concentrated geographically. Therefore, the project will pilot this approach in a limited number of
regions (raions) of Moldova, taking into account the following criteria: (a) illustrative geographic coverage
(North, South and Center); (b) presence of a fairly large number of private businesses; and (c) synergies
with UNICEF activities, particularly the establishment of regional resource youth centers which will be
critical for the integration of different project activities (See Component 1.1). An agreement was reached
to select the five following districts or raions: Cahul, Orhei, Belts, Soroca, and Ungheni. Some activities
will still be implemented at a national level, such as the institutional and policy development activities.

The integrated and inclusive package of youth oriented services and opportunities will be delivered through:
(i) improving the responsiveness of key public and private service providers to the needs, interests and
potentials of young people, with a particular focus on the most disadvantaged; and (ii) strengthening
partnership among them. As outlined below, each proposed component tends to focus on particular service
providers: local government and community-based associations, through a network of regional youth
centers and civil society initiatives (component One); providers in the economic and financial sectors
(component Two) and state public sector (component Three). Component four specifically addresses
project implementation support.

                                                       3
                                                                                                           PID




COMPONENT 1.              YOUTH-FRIENDLY SPACES & INNOVATIVE SERVICE DELIVERY

This component will directly address non-income dimensions of youth poverty and social exclusion such as
powerlessness (often linked with lack of information and isolation); vulnerability and exposure to risky
behaviors (e.g.drug abuse, alcoholism) due to idleness and lack of spaces for safe and constructive
free-time activities; and gender-specific dimensions of vulnerability such as domestic violence. Indirect
outcomes on income-dimensions of poverty are also expected to occur as youth-serving spaces and civil
society initiatives will be encouraged to provide skills enhancement activities leading to possible future
income-generation activities.

This component includes two sub-components: (i) the establishment of a network of regional youth-friendly
centers; and (ii) a competitive grants program for youth-serving civil society associations to promote their
creative initiatives for youth's socio-economic inclusion and empowerment (increased social capital and
participation in decision-making).

Sub-Component 1.1 Establishment of Regional Youth-Friendly Centers

Mainly through UNICEF contribution (with support from the Dutch government), this subcomponent will
finance the establishment of a network of resource centers and youth-friendly spaces for: (i) safe and
constructive free-time activities; (ii) skills enhancement (life skills, computer and Information and
Communication Technology (ICTs) skills); (iii) orientation, guidance & counseling on youth-relevant
subjects (including professional orientation/ counseling for young parents); and (iv) distribution and sharing
of information on youth trends, opportunities and services for youth, and training facilities and resources
for youth service providers. These resource and multi-service centers will have a critical role in: (i)
facilitating the integration of the pro-youth employment and social activities supported by the Project (by
acting as points of referral for instance); (ii) strengthening synergies and networking among all existing
youth oriented initiatives and services; and (iii) offering logistic support and consultation to youth NGOs
and non-associated young people. The centers are to be established in close cooperation with the YSD,
local authorities and youth NGOs. Three centers are already functioning: the National Youth Resource
Center, the Youth Media Center in Chisinau and the Regional Resource Center in Biesti (Orhei).

There will be local government co-financing for rehabilitation costs and salaries of educators. Equipment,
computers and internet access will be set up in all the centers (with specificities according to each center's
needs). Activities will be developed around counseling, life skills, computer and language skills. Under this
component, training materials for educators will also be developed.

A small contribution from IDA funds will be made to ensure that the regional centers can carry out a
sufficient number of mobile activities so as to reach out to a greater number of youth. This will be done by
financing a portion of operating expenditures for the exclusive implementation of mobile activities and as
based on semi-annual or annual budgets which will be sent to the PIU for review and approval.

Sub-component 1.2: Support to Civil Society Initiatives for Youth Economic and Social Inclusion

Under this sub-component, activities will build on the approach developed through the competitive small
grants pilot program for local youth-serving associations, which was successfully implemented by the
Youth and Sports Department (YSD) between September 2002 through May 2003 (under the Norwegian
Community Driven Development Trust fund). Support to civil society initiatives for youth economic and
social inclusion will be provided through a competitive grant scheme which has the following objectives: (i)

                                                        4
                                                                                                                  PID


to reduce the isolation of youth by stimulating the creation of and supporting youth initiative groups; (ii) to
create opportunities for the prevention and mitigation of youth vulnerability and risky behaviors by the
promotion and provision of innovative economic and social services, especially in rural areas and small
towns; (iii) to strengthen capacities of youth-serving NGOs and CBOs; and (iv) to improve communication,
cooperation and trust between governmental and non-governmental partners.

This subcomponent will finance: (a) subprojects; (b) technical assistance for capacity-building , aiming at
strengthening the capacity for innovative service delivery to youth, especially the most disadvantaged; and
(c) specific promotion activities for the Grants program.

Sub-Project Financing: There will be three different lines of grants which are defined according to
proposed themes and activities, amount of the proposals and type of eligible applicants:

         (1)      Line 1, will specifically respond to the need of young people living in villages, small towns
                  and other isolated areas of the 5 raions, where no youth-friendly spaces are available nor
                  accessible for adolescents and young adults. The planned and existing regional youth
                  centers under Sub-component 1.1 cannot adequately reach out to villages and other
                  isolated communities. These youth spaces will become part of the systemic network of
                  information, training and support provided by the regional resource centers. Grants will
                  range from USD 3,000 to 10,000 and will be eligible to proposal for activities to be
                  delivered in small youth-friendly spaces in villages by NGOs and CBOs with more than
                  one-year experience;

         (2)      Line 2, will range from USD 1,000 to 4,000 and will be eligible to proposals for: (i) the
                  development of outreach programs for particularly disadvantaged and at risk youth (e.g.,
                  school drop-outs, youth with insufficient parental supervision, or from dysfunctional
                  families, etc.); (ii) skills building for economic inclusion (e.g. entrepreneurial skills;
                  studying of foreign languages; application of modern information technologies (ICTs); job
                  search skills, including job applications, interviews, c.v. writing etc.); (iii) activities for the
                  prevention of risky behaviors: organization of safe free-time activities for leisure, sports
                  and entertainment; (iv) information and knowledge sharing on the resources and
                  opportunities available for young people; and (v) counselling activities for young families.

         (3)      Line 3, creation of youth initiative groups, specifically responds to the needs of non
                  organized young people to: (i) form initiatives groups for addressing community and/or
                  youth specific problems and (ii) overcome difficulties of access to funding and
                  capacity-building opportunities. Activities under this grant line include technical assistance
                  of experienced NGOs for newly formed youth initiative groups and seed money for
                  selected activities of these groups under the supervision of the experienced NGO. Grants
                  have a ceiling of USD 2,000 and are eligible for legally registered local and national youth
                  NGO with experience in youth development issues and capacity building of not less than 3
                  years.

The Operational Manual for the proposed project includes a section for the specific procedures which apply
for this sub-component (Scoring criteria for proposals evaluation; selection committee; grants cycle etc.).

Capacity-building for CBOs and NGOs and specific promotion activities are described in Annex 2.

COMPONENT 2.            PRO-YOUTH EMPLOYMENT INITIATIVES

                                                       5
                                                                                                          PID




In selected regions, this component will create enabling conditions for unemployed and/or precariously
employed adult young women and men to invest in skills and assets leading to better self- and wage
-employment opportunities. While component one mainly focuses on civil society and local government as
service providers, this component concentrates on testing mechanisms to increase responsiveness to and
demand for youth within the financing and the economic sector (financing institutions, enterprises).
Sub-component 2.1 aims at supporting youth entrepreneurship while Sub-component 2.2 focuses on
facilitating youth entry into wage employment.

Sub-component 2.1: Support to Youth Entrepreneurship

This sub-component will pilot an approach to help young adults (18-30 years old) in the creation and
financing of self-employment opportunities in project selected regions. It is expected that outreach and
basic training should reach over 1,500 potential youth and that the project will facilitate the launch and
financing of approximately 320 micro-enterprises. Social analysis found that financial institutions tend not
to lend to young people who suffer from a lack of clear business plan and lack of collateral. Even
initiatives such as the Rural Investment Services Project (RISP) tend to reach few young women and men.
This sub-component will therefore try to address these issues by: (i) providing business training; (ii)
assisting in the design and implementation of a business plan; (iii) rewarding the best candidates with some
equity building grant; and (iv) linking the target population to the formal financial sector.

Sub-component activities will include: (i) awareness and Training for business plan preparation and
implementation; and (ii) Financing: Awards grant and link to the financial sector.

          (i)    Awareness and Training for Business Plan Preparation and Implementation
                 Under the proposed scheme, the subcomponent would use the infrastructure setup by RISP
                 to provide the training, business plan preparation and implementation/follow-up of the
                 micro-enterprise for a period of up to two years. Development Agencies (DAs) would
                 increase their capacity by an average of 40%, and adapt their methodology to create
                 approximately 320 enterprises over the four-year period of the project. Development
                 Agencies are local NGOs which have set up a network of mobile teams in four regions of
                 the country to provide similar services in rural and peri-urban areas, visiting their
                 participants in their villages on a regular basis (See Annex 2 for more details). Special
                 (adapted) awareness/communication strategies will be devised so as to reach a maximum
                 of potential beneficiaries by developing a partnership with a wide range of regionally based
                 youth service providers mobilized by the project, including the regional youth centers
                 (component 1), youth-serving civil society groups, and municipal labor offices.

          (ii)   Financing. The approach being proposed is to help build some small equity as a capital
                 grant which would in turn be used as collateral for the young entrepreneur to be able to
                 access credit from financial institutions. Once a project has been prepared by the DA and
                 has been verified for eligibility criteria, the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
                 would then be able to select the best business proposals based on sustainability and
                 quality.   Such business projects would be financed from three different sources: (i)
                 personal contribution, in cash or in kind, for approximately 10% of the total project cost;
                 (ii) a capital grant which would be financed by the LIL and would represent 50% of total
                 project cost; and (iii) 40% financed by a two-year loan, at normal market rate, by PFIs
                 who would use their own resources not IDA proceeds, or, in the case a PFI is already
                 working with the RISP project, could also use RISP resources if available and if the

                                                        6
                                                                                                           PID


                 candidate also meets the RISP eligibility criteria. Related rules and criteria will be clearly
                 laid out in the project's operational manual. During preparation, PFIs were contacted and
                 they indicated that they would be prepared to provide financing under the above
                 conditions.



Sub-component 2.2: Partnership and Training for Employment

The rationale for the design of this second sub-component builds on the results of the Multisector team
Learning on youth employment issues (See Annex 10). At macro level, a key barrier to youth employment
is the overall low level of labor demand in Moldova. However, at micro-level, various key informants
including enterprises identified additional constraints such as skills mismatches (including technical, but
also attitudinal and behavioral skills). Therefore, a potential scope for reducing skills mismatches as a way
to increase youth access to wage employment can be envisaged.

This sub-component aims at facilitating youth entry into wage employment, through the development of a
network of local private businesses, based on a pool of businesses that have already participated in the
second World Bank financed Private Sector Development (PSD II) project. The partnership with this
network will allow for exchange of information on possible skills mismatches or shortages, subsequent
provision of vocational training courses, internships and mentorship in known job growth categories in
selected project regions.

The target group for this proposed sub-component will be young people of age 16-30, not being involved
in secondary education, with no current and previous formal employment experience, and identified as
vulnerable by key informants, including the local Employment Bureau (from the registry of unemployed),
the Youth and Family department (from the list of recorded vulnerable households), the local bureau of
the Ministry of Education (from the list of school drop-outs) and the department for the disabled, and other
civil society organizations. Other direct beneficiaries will include legally registered businesses with at
least 3 years existence, facing identified problems of skills mismatch or skills shortages, and preferably
reporting profit as of year ended preceding the project starting year. The rationale for choosing this type of
business is to ensure that the project will train the youth in an economically viable corporate environment.

This sub-component will finance four main types of activities:

         (i)     A Skills and Training Needs Assessment (STNA), which will consist of a                  rapid
                 assessment (qualitative study) of the network of selected partner companies to identify
                 their needs in terms of workforce and qualifications and produce results in terms of
                 possible opportunities for young trainees. This study would be implemented at the
                 beginning of the project and repeated after two years, and this in close consultation with
                 the Department of Labor Force and other relevant partners.

         (ii)    Support to identification of target group-vulnerable youth and outreach promotion,
                 by relying on local consultancy service(s) (individuals or youth NGOs) and providing the
                 necessary incentives and support for collaborating municipal officials (e.g. per diems for
                 field visits etc.).

         (iii)   Core training or counseling services, which will include professional orientation (taking
                 a test to determine potential professional skills and literacy), job- searching skills
                 enhancement (interview techniques, job searching methods, curriculum-vitae writing,

                                                         7
                                                                                                         PID


                 self-esteem, career planning).

        (iv)     Job Specific Training Package. Here the project will finance a demand-driven vocational
                 training package which will be designed based on the results of the STNA. This package
                 will include:

                 (a)      Vocational Training Courses (VTC) (of a maximum duration of 4-6 months in
                          institution or on the job i.e. undertaken directly within the enterprises);

                 (b)      Internship subsequent to the VTC during a 4 month period offered at the partner
                          enterprises; and

                 (c)      Financing of per-diem of trainees (for the duration of VTC) and co-financing with
                          partner enterprises for the duration of the internship. Amount of per diem may
                          vary according to sub-groups of youth. In particular, there will be higher per
                          diems for young mothers so as to address constraints related to childcare.

NB: To the extent possible, the training activities proposed under this component will be synchronized with
sub-component 1.1 on youth-friendly centers so as to offer an integrated package of services to youth (e.g.
by combining employment-related services with social services and overall guidance as applicable/needed),
and this with a view to maximize the chances of project success.

                                                       8
                                                                                                         PID


COMPONENT 3.             INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT.

This component focuses on the state sector as a youth-serving entity and will support:

        (a)      Strategy, policy development and capacity-building in relevant areas.        In particular,
                 advisory services will be provided to strengthen the content and the monitoring of both the
                 recently designed Youth Strategy and its linkages with the EGPRSP, with a focus on main
                 policy gaps: strategies and policies to reach and support youth with less opportunities;
                 youth employment policies (both entrepreneurship and wage employment) and financial
                 dimensions of youth policy (cost-benefits analysis of investment in youth development and
                 inclusion).

        (b)      External and internal communication; so as to ensure that all partners at regional and
                 national level are mobilized and that all youth can readily avail themselves of project
                 opportunities; promotion and external communication activities will aim at broad
                 dissemination of project options and opportunities, creating awareness and incentives for
                 young people to use these opportunities rather than engage in risky behaviors, and creating
                 incentives for key project partners to join and/or stay in the program.

        (c)      A comprehensive, learning ­oriented participatory system of monitoring and evaluation.

        A detailed description is provided in annex 2.


COMPONENT 4.             PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT.

This component will finance the necessary activities to ensure successful project implementation within the
expected time, budget and performance parameters (See Annex 2 for details).

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.36)
IDA ($3.00)
LOCAL COMMUNITIES ($0.41)
BORROWING COUNTRY'S FIN. INTERMEDIARY/IES ($0.94)
UN CHILDREN'S FUND ($0.69)
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) ($1.00)
Total Project Cost: $6.39

6. Implementation
The overall organizational structure of the Youth Inclusion Project (YIP) will consist of: (i) a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) set up by a Government decision; and (ii) a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
responsible for project coordination and technical implementation, to be established within the legal
framework of the existing Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit (CAPMU).

The Project Steering Committee (PSC) will have a central role in providing guidance on overall project
direction and coordination of existing efforts in the areas of youth inclusion and empowerment relevant to
the project. The PSC will hold bi-annual meetings, review information on the progress of project activities,
approve annual plans, reports and budgets. Finally, the PSC will be instrumental in ensuring a link
between project activities and policy dialogue on youth inclusion among key public and private
stakeholders and relevant donors-by informing the existing mixed government and civil society

                                                       9
                                                                                                          PID


Interministerial Group which is currently responsible for overseeing the development of the national youth
strategy and its linkages with the EGPRSP.

The PSC will be composed of a maximum of seven members and will include government representatives,
two non-governmental organizations working on youth development and inclusion and one representative
from UNICEF-Moldova. The national NGOs will have at least three years of experience in youth policies,
especially in the various fields of activity covered by the project and experience in implementation of youth
project with international donors (e.g. UNICEF, World Bank).

Mixed Regional Project Advisory fora. In order to incorporate the views of the project's selected regions
and inform project implementation and guidance at the regional level, it was agreed that the PIU will
facilitate the establishment of mixed Regional Project Advisory fora. The fora will have a monitoring and
learning function and will be composed of representatives from local government, civil society associations
and direct beneficiaries. Their meetings will held before every national PSC meeting.

Implementation Structure. There was a common recognition that the success of the pilot integrated
approach to youth economic and social inclusion in the five selected regions would require a minimum
number of staff fully dedicated to daily project's coordination, implementation, monitoring and outreach at
community level.       However, the latest CPPR discussions indicated that the GOM wishes to keep
implementation costs as low as possible. Therefore, an agreement was reached to balance cost efficiency
with effectiveness by proposing a mixed implementation structure. As clarified in the operational manual,
the beneficiary agency for the project, the Youth and Sports Department, agreed that a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established within the legal framework of CAPMU. CAPMU will
perform fiduciary functions (financial management, procurement, accounting, disbursement, relations with
treasury, etc.). It will therefore verify that implementation decisions of the PIU are in accordance with the
project operational manual and the legal agreement. CAPMU would also be responsible for ensuring
synergies with other projects under its legal framework (particularly the Rural Investment Services Funds
(RISP).

The PIU will be located in the premises of the YSD and will be responsible for project coordination and
technical implementation. It will comprise the following staff: (a) 4 staff to be financed 100% by the
Youth Inclusion Project (YIP) funds (one project manager; two program officers; one project assistant for
reporting, translating and administrative support); (b) one program officer financed 50% by YIP funds and
50% by the Rural Investment Services Funds); and (d) two staff with fiduciary functions (one procurement
specialist; one financial management specialist) to be financed 20% by YIP funds and the remaining by
RISP and Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP). In addition, UNICEF Moldova will contribute to
project support through joint coordination of activities (especially sub-component 1.1. Establishment of
Youth Friendly Centers, and component 3. Institutional and Policy Development) and local consultancy
support. The agreed co-financed activities will be under the shared responsibility of the UNICEF Youth
Development Specialist (permanent UNICEF staff) and the PIU manager.


7. Sustainability


8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector

                                                      10
                                                                                                       PID


9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
     Issues    : The proposed LIL will not generate any negative environmental impacts. At most,
Component One might include the small rehabilitation of existing youth spaces (e.g. room painting). The
construction of new infrastructure will not be eligible as part of the competitive grants scheme.

10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Carine Clert
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: 202 458 49 13
      Fax:

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

