                              Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

                                                                                             Report No: AC227
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 08/20/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: MOLDOVA                                            Project ID: P082878
Project: MOLDOVA YOUTH INCLUSION LEARNING Task Team Leader: Carine Clert
& INNOVATION CREDIT
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 15, 2003             IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 17, 2003                            IDA Amount ($m): 3.00
Managing Unit: ECSSD                                        Sector: Other social services (50%); Adult
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)      literacy/non-formal education (20%); Vocational
Status: Lending                                             training (15%); Information technology (15%)
                                                            Theme: Civic engagement, participation and
                                                            community driven development (P); Other social
                                                            development (P); Education for the knowledge
                                                            economy (S); Rural non-farm income generation (S);
                                                            Gender (S)


I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):

Test whether participating youth (16- 25) from poor/vulnerable rural and
peri-urban households from selected regions engage in positive economic and
social practices in response to an integrated and inclusive package of
youth-oriented services and opportunities.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
Component 1- Social initiatives for youth inclusion and empowerment. Under this component,
activities will build on and scale up the competitive small grants pilot program for local youth-serving
associations, which has been successfully implemented by the YSD between September 02-April 03
(with the Norwegian CDD Trust fund). Eligible applicants will include national and local youth-serving
associations, including community-based associations. Eligible themes will typically include : a) skills
building, including important life skills for adolescents or specific support to drop-out youths; b)
prevention of risky behaviors; c) access to information and to Information and Communication
Technologies (ICTs); d) development of activities to be delivered in youth spaces; e) any other themes
identified by regional participatory assessment of youth-related needs, interests and opportunities for
economic and social participation.       This component will be designed and implemented in close
collaboration with UNICEF-Moldova, which currently supports the YSD and local governments with the
establishment of new youth centers.
Component 2- Support to youth economic participation.

Component 3- Institutional and Policy Development. Mainly through capacity-building and technical
assistance, this component support: a) the development and implementation of the national youth
strategy; b) an institutional network of youth-serving public and private partners, both at national level
and in selected project regions (for outreach and referral); c) communication, information and outreach;
and d) a comprehensive and participatory system of monitoring and evaluation.
 Component 4- Project support. This last component will provide support to the main counterpart, the

                                                        2
                                                                                                        ISDS



Youth and Sports Department (YSD), for project implementation.

Components:



Component 1- Social initiatives for youth inclusion and empowerment
Component 2-Support to youth economic participation
Component 3- Institutional and Policy Development
Component 4-Project support
unallocated

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)



B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)

Comments: There is no civil works or reconstruction associated with the project.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                          Triggered

    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                           Yes    No      TBD

    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                   Yes    No      TBD

    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                    Yes    No      TBD

    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                      Yes    No      TBD

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                  Yes    No      TBD

    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                   Yes    No      TBD

    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                          Yes    No      TBD

    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                              Yes    No      TBD

    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                   Yes    No      TBD

    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                        Yes    No      TBD



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The proposed LIL will not generate any negative environmental impacts. At most, Component One might
include the small rehabilitation of existing youth spaces (e.g. room painting). The construction of new
infrastructure will not be eligible as part of the competitive grants scheme.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.

                                                      3
                                                                                                        ISDS



No safeguards policies will be triggered as a result of the proposed LIL.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.



II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)



II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues



II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.



E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.


[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
          in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
          similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
          safeguard issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure

                                                   4
                                                                                                  ISDS



Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                             Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by              Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                    Carine Clert
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:


Approved by:                         Name                                               Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                                           06/06/2003
Sector Manager/Director              Alexandre Marc                                     06/06/2003

