                                          Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                              FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 35957-TJ




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                     PROPOSED GRANT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR0.7 MILLION
                              (US$l MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                 REPUBLICOF TAJIKISTAN

                                             FORA

        STRENGTHENINGTHE NATIONAL STATISTICAL SYSTEMPROJECT

                       lNSUPPORTOFTHEMULTIPLECOUNTRY
             STATISTICAL CAPACITY BUILDING (STATCAP) PROGRAM

                                          May 1,2006




PovertyReductiodEconomicManagement(ECSPE)

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (ExchangeRateEffective 1.10.2006)


             CurrencyUnit = US$
Tajikistan Somoni (TJS) 3.20 = US$1
                     US$1 = SDR0.7

                     FISCALYEAR
                 January 1   - December31

           ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

TA      Technical assistance
TACIS   Technical Assistance for CIS
TFSCB   Trust Fundfor Statistical Capacity Building
TIKA   TurkishInternational Cooperation Agency
TOR     Terms o f Reference
TTL     Task Team Leader
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UNSD    United Nations Statistical Division
WB      World Bank


                                         REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
                             Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem

                                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                 Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................  1
 1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                 1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement.........................................................................................                       2
 3.  Higherlevel objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                   3

B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................    4
  1. Lending instrument .............................................................................................................              4
 2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                4
 3.  Project components.............................................................................................................               5
 4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                                7
 5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                               8

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                   ..........................................................................................................     8
  1. Partnership arrangements (ifapplicable) ............................................................................                           8
 2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements..................................................................                                9
 3.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults..................................................................                                 9
 4.  Sustainability .....................................................................................................................
           . . .                                                                                                                                   10
 5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                              11
 6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                            12

D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                       .................................................................................................      12
  1. Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                         12
 2.  Technical ...........................................................................................................................         13
 3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................         13
 4.  Social.................................................................................................................................       14
  5. Environment......................................................................................................................             15
 6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................               15
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness.,....................................................................................                         15

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                       .........................................................   16

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                   .................20
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                       ........................................................................      21

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ......................................................................................        32

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................         52

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                  .................................................................................       53

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                            .....................................   55

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements               ......................................................................................        64

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                  .............................................................................       70

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues         ............................................................................................        71

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                       .....................................................................      72

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File               .................................................................................       74

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ..............................................................................       75

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................         76

Annex 15: Governance and Accountability Issues                       ...................................................................      78
Annex 16: Map (IBRD#33493)         .................................................................................................          85

                                   REPUBLICOF TAJIKISTAN

                    STRENGTHENINGTHENATIONAL STATISTICALSYSTEM

                                 PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                  EUROPEAND CENTRALASIA

                                             DECDG

Date: May 1,2006                                  TeamLeader: MustafaDinc
Country Director: Annette Dixon                   Sectors: Centralgovernment administration
Sector ManagedDirector: Carlos FelipeJaramillo    (100%)
                                                  Themes: Economic statistics, modelingand
                                                  forecasting (P);Poverty strategy, analysis and
                                                  monitoring@);Other economic management(S)
Project ID: PO98410                               Environmentalscreeningcategory: Not Required
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan

                                      Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan [ICredit       [XI Grant [ ] Guarantee        [ ] Other:




                    Source                        Local             Foreign                Total
BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                    0.87                0.00                 0.87
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT                             0.00                 1.oo                1.oo
ASSOCIATION
UK:BRITISHDEPARTMENTFOR                              0.00                 1.10                1.10
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT
(DFID)
SWEDEN: SWEDISHINTL. DEV.                            0.00                2.10                 2.10
COOPERATIONAGENCY (SIDA)
Total:                                               0.87                4.20                 5.07

Borrower:
Governmentof Republic of Tajikistan
Dushanbe,Republicof Tajikistan

Responsible Agency:
State Statistical Committee
17 Bokhtar
Dushanbe
Tajikistan
Tel: +992372 232553
STAT@TOJIKISTON.COM
http://www.stat.tj/english/home.htm




                                                 1

Project implementation period: 5 Years
Start May 31,2006 End: June 30,201 1
Expected effectiveness date: May 31, 2006
Expected closing date: June 30, 2011
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PADA.3                                                                              [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                             [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                            [[ ]Yes [XINO
                                                                                           ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                             [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                             [XIYes [ ]No

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The main objective o fthe project is to modernize the national statistical systemand improve its
efficiency and effectiveness to provide relevant, timely and reliable statistical data for evidence-
basedpolicy making insupport o f Government's poverty reduction strategies and the process o f
economic development.

Project description[one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
        Institutional Development component will support the improvement o fthe institutional
        capacity to carry out the formulation, coordination, and implementationo f appropriate
        statistical policies andprograms that will address to the needs of Tajikistan.
        HumanResource Development component targets to improve the qualifications ofthe
        personnel inall statistical offices o fthe national statistical system.
        Development o f Statistical Infrastructure component addressesthe improvement o f the
        basic elements of the statistical infrastructure: statistical registers, sample frames,
        classifications and methodologies, statistical computer packages for analysis o f survey
        data, and Geographical Information System (GIS) for statistical mapping.
        Data Development component will support the adaptation o f internationally accepted
        standards and methodologies indata collection, compilation, and validation by GKS and
        other relevant agencies.
        Physical Infrastructure and Equipmentcomponent will support upgrading existing
        information technology (IT), transportation and other equipmentthat i s essential to carry
        out existing and project activities.
        Project Management component will finance the project coordinationunit that will
        managethe implementation o fthe project under GKS.




                                                   2

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
There is no safeguard issue triggered by the project.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD C.7
There i s no significant, non-standard condition.

Boardpresentation:
This is a STATCAP project, which is approved by the regionalVice-president. No Board
presentation required.

Grant effectiveness:
May 31,2006

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
Negotiations Condition

The Project Operational Manual (POM) and Financial Management Action plan, all acceptable
to IDA has been developed by the Recipient.

Management approval condition

The project counterpart account has been opened.
The Financial Management systemacceptable to IDAhas beenestablished.

Effectiveness condition

The Grant Agreement betweenthe Republic o f Tajikistan and IDA acting as the administrator o f
the funds provided by DFIDand Sida has beenexecuted.
Project Coordination Team (PCT) with terms of reference, staff and resources, all acceptable to
the Associationhasbeenestablished by the Recipient.

Other covenants

The Recipient shall maintainthe project counterpart account ina commercial bank acceptable to
IDA and regularly deposit to this account amounts sufficient to finance its counterpart
contributionto the project.




                                                 3


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Country and sector issues

Country background. Tajikistan, a small economy with a population of 6.8 million and a GDP
o f US$2.1 billion, gained its independence in 1991. Shortly after independence, a civil war
brought extensive physical damage and heavy human losses to the country. After reaching a
peace accord in mid-1997 the Government turned its attention to governing and economic and
social reforms. Infact, since the end o f civil war Tajikistan has done remarkably well. Within the
first few years after the war the Government established its control over the country and started
concentrating on political consolidation and security. After achieving these, it focused on
repairing and developing a war torn country that, even before the war, was among the poorest in
the CIS.

The cumulative growth of almost 60 percent of the economy over the last five years is quite
impressive and demonstrates the Government's success, even though the growth started from a
very low base. The postwar recovery inproductivity, especially in agriculture and expansion of
services and construction fuelled by remittances from migrant workers significantly contributed
to the economic growth in this period. This growth in economy has significantly helped the
reduction o f poverty, from 81% in 1999 to 64% in 2003. Tajikistan, however, still remains the
poorest country inthe ECA region and differences inpoverty rate betweenoblasts (province) are
still significant, ranging from 84% in Gorno-Badakhshan to 45% in Rayons under Republican
Jurisdiction.

Nationaland sectoralstrategies. The first PRSP ofthe country for 2003-2005 approved inJune
2002 had focused primarily on: (i)encouraging equitable, labor-intensive and export-oriented
economic growth, (ii)supporting efficient and fair provision o f basic social services, (iii)
targeting support to the poor, and (iv) improving governance and security.

Currently the government i s in the process o f finalizing its long- and mid-term development
strategies, National Development Strategy (NDS) for 2006-2015 and second PRSP for 2006-
2008. The draft NDS, presented to the donor community inUNhead-quarters inDecember 2005,
identifies country's national goal as "strengthening o f political structures and achieving
economic well-being and social welfare for the population o f Tajikistan based on the principles
o f freedom, human dignity and equal opportunity for the realization o f human potential". NDS
and PRSP2 priorities are stated as: (i) administration reform, (ii)
                                          public                           development o f private
sector and attracting new investments, and (iii)  development o f human potential.

The program envisioned in the NDS/PRSP2 i s information intensive and requires continuous
monitoring o f poverty and performances o f various sub-sectors o f the economy for developing
policy measuresto reduce poverty. These documents clearly state the importance o f relevant and
reliable statistical data and institutional and methodological framework o f statistical system
(especially in the social protection sphere) for the successful implementation, monitoring and
evaluation o f strategies. This i s fully in line with recommendations o f the first PRSP progress
and joint staff assessment reports, which have emphasized the importance o f improving
statistical data, in particular related to poverty estimation, and monitoring and evaluation
process.



                                                   1

Sector issues and strategy. Statistical issues in Tajikistan are governed by the Law on State
Statistics, where the State Statistical Committee and its divisions at the local level are the public
agencies in charge carrying out compilation, control, processing, analysis, aggregation,
dissemination and storage o f the statistical information. In March 2005 the Government
approved the Multi-Year Integrated Statistical Plan (MISP)', whose major strategic objectives
are: (i) to upgrade Goskomstat's methodological skills, (ii)             automate its work across the board,
(iii) thebasicrequirementsformonitoringthemacroeconomicsituationandpoverty, and
      meet
(iv) fulfill other objectives required to meet the criteria of the IMF General Data Dissemination
System (GDDS).

Even though since the independence GKS has been trying to adopt standard international
statistical methodologies and to remove old management structures, this transition has posed
major challenges for GKS. For many decades prior to independence, GKS simply operated to
trace the implementation o f the government's economic plan. The dramatic changes in the
economic environment and the necessary adoption o f techniques and procedures to monitor
economic movements have exceeded the adaptation capability o f the agency. As a result, there i s
now an increasing pressure on the national statistical systemto produce and disseminate relevant
statistics that meet internationally accepted standards.

The critical issues to be addressed can be clustered in: (i)weak institutional capacity and
inefficient   organizational structure o f the statistical system, (ii)ineffective institutional
coordination between various statistical agencies and the GKS, (iii)lack o f well developed
human resources framework, (iv) inadequate analytical capability and qualifications o f personnel
of the statistical system, (v) weak statistical infrastructure, and (vi) poor physical and IT
infrastructure.

The GKS recently received funding from the Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building
(TFSCB) for technical assistance to upgrade its capabilities. The project was successfully
completed in 2005 and the MISP was developed for the whole national statistical system
including relevant line ministries and agencies. The MISP provides a road map for the next five
years. The Government has approved the MISP and been very supportive o f its implementation
which will significantly improve the capacity o f GKS and other agencies that deal with data
collection and dissemination. The results o f the project will include a better legislative
framework for statistical work, and better human skills, better equipment, and better data to
monitor progress. These, inturn, will be o f benefit to the government and people, but will also be
o f use to the Bank and other regional and international agencies inmaintaining a policy dialogue
with the government and inplanning and implementingother projects andprograms.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The Bank possesses unique global expertise and necessary resources in developing and guiding
comprehensive, integrated, and targeted projects on statistical capacity building. The Bank also

' Resolution o f the Government o f Tajikistan from March 4, 2005, #90. Actually selection o f MISP priority tasks
was largely based on the three goals specified in the Paris 21 framework, namely on macroeconomic monitoring,
monitoring o fpoverty, and other data priorities inthe framework of the IMF's GDDS.


                                                          2

has broad knowledge o f the country's development situation. Another important issue worth
mentioning is that the Bank considers economy-wide perspective in its assistance to countries in
their statistical capacity building activities, which involve almost all aspects of institutional
development, infrastructure improvement, reorganization and human resource development.

Further, the Bank has significant experience and knowledge inbuilding country monitoring and
evaluation systems, for which improvement o f state statistical system i s essential. Other donors
and investors, without the same economy-wide perspective, are often unable to provide support
for all aspects o f institutional development, such as infrastructure costs and costs associatedwith
reorganization and human resource development.

In addition, the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) follows the results-based approach,
thus this project will also help build national monitoring and evaluation capacity to assess the
effectiveness o f the country's donor assistance strategies, poverty impact o f the donor-funded
Public InvestmentProgram. Given that the limited IDA resources allocated for the country and
enormous financial gap needed in dealing with the development challenges Tajikistan faces, the
CPS emphasizes the catalytic role o f the Bank in maximizing the overall impact. Inthis regard
the Bank has a strong commitment and experience insuch partnerships with other donors. Inthis
project, the Bank plays a leading role in strengthening donor efforts in building statistical
capacity inTajikistan withinthe framework o f the MISP.

The CPS defines governance reform and state capacity building as the cross-cutting area o f
assistance to Tajikistan for fiscal years 2006-2009. Inthis regard the Government and Bank are
now finalizing preparation o f the Public Sector Reform Project (PSRP) and Policy Based Credit.
PSRP will focus on supporting implementation o f the Public Administration Reform Strategy,
while PBC and the upcoming Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) will provide budget
support to move the government structural reform agenda, mainly in public administration and
social service delivery improvement, forward. Hence, the Bank's support (through a long-term
new instrument - STATCAP) to improve state statistics framework will significantly and
effectively increase the development impact o f the whole IDA assistance package to the public
administration reform.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The project is in full conformity with the CPS and Government's NDS/PRSP2 where priorities
are set to ensure the achievement o f the overall development goals and ranked in the order o f
importance, as:
    0   public administration reform;
    0   development o f private sector and attracting investments;
    0   development o f human potential.

The project will directly contribute to these priority areas by building an effective national
statistical system that ensure timely and quality measurement o f the progress and provides
reliable statistical data that for the decision-making process. This i s particularly important for the
purpose o f tracking progress o f NDS/PSRP2 implementation as well as a number o f MDG-based
quantitative macroeconomic and social indicators selected by the Government. The project will



                                                  3

also directly contribute to the purpose o f ensuring proper tracking and assessment of the county's
progress towards achievement o f MDGs, which also influences the size o f the donor assistance
to Tajikistan.

This work requires reliable and good quality social, demographic and economic data, hence a
wide variety o f information should be collected to provide a holistic view of poverty in the
country. This will include: (i) qualitative and quantitative indicators; (ii) income/expenditure and
access to services; and (iii) household, communityhegion and intra-household data. It should be
noted that the data to be collected will not be limitedwithjust poverty data, some other data will
also be required such as labor force, growth, trade and prices. The quality o f the monitoring
exercise will depend vitally on the ability o f the national statistical system, where GKS i s the key
player, to provide information. It should be noted that data collection, dissemination and use
need to be on-going and regular activities that will allow evaluation o f changes over time, but
should not overly burdenthe capacity o fthe government to implementit.

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument

This project will be a Specific InvestmentLoan, under the umbrella of the STATCAP Adaptable
Program Lendingto improve statistical capacity through a sector-wide approach, usingthe MISP
as the basis for investments. STATCAP i s designedto support a mediumto long-term approach.
To enter the STATCAP lendingprogram borrowers need to fulfill certain eligibility criteria. The
cornerstone o f a STATCAP project i s the development o f a comprehensive and integrated
national action plan for statistical capacity building, MISP, prior to the project. The MISP
identifies strengths and weaknesses o f the system, and contains necessary components to
improve the system.

Tajikistan has met all requirements o f STATCAP and the project components are designed to
support the implementation o f the MISP, and will be implemented in a coherent, consistent and
well-sequenced manner.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The main objective of the project is to improve efficiency and effectiveness of the National
Statistical System to enable it to provide relevant, timely and reliable data for evidence-based
policy making in support o f Government's poverty reduction strategies and the process o f
economic development.

The principal outcome o f this project will be a well functioning national statistical system that
will significantly improve Government's decision-making process by providing timely and
accurate economic and social data. It will also help Government monitor progress towards
national development goals, including the PRSP goals and the MDGs. The specific outputs o f
the project are:
    0   improved legal and institutional framework that will encourage statistical development;
    0   improvedphysical and IT infrastructure;
    0   strengthened human resources through training instatistical operations;



                                                   4

    0   improved statistical infrastructure through application o f internationally accepted
        methodologies and data quality standards;
    0   developed statistical production system that continuously adapts to evolving needs o fthe
         society and economy through user-producer dialogues;
    0    institutionalizedcore statistical activities, including poverty monitoring;
    0    increased output o f reliable statistics by consolidating and strengthening existing surveys
         and administrative sources, and by designing and conducting new data-generating
         activities; and
    0   timely dissemination, information-sharing, and the use of data for policy decisions.

Achievement o f the specific objectives o f the project will support the overall goal by reducing
the cost of information supply, increasing the demand, and making coordination o f statistical
activities, financing, and execution more effective. It will also help statistical agencies in line
ministries through improved institutional interaction between statistical agencies and training of
their relevant staff. These objectives are in full agreement with the MISP. Key performance
indicators include the following:


    0    Increased user satisfaction relative to a baseline (including consultations, usefulness o f
         products, etc).
    0    Greater use and interpretationo f statistical information by economic actors;
    0    Increased use o f statistical information ingovernment's plans and programs;
    0    Improved quality o f statistics disseminated through various publications;
    0    Improved quality o f progress reports indicating increased availability and quality o f
         requiredstatistical data;
    0    The National statistical system increasingly conforms to the international standards with
         regular updating and publication o f the             GDDS metadata in line with its
         recommendations.

Baseline data will be based on existing surveys and the surveys to be conducted in the first 6
months of the project.

3. Projectcomponents

The project components are designed to support the implementation of the MISP, and will be
implementedina coherent, consistent and well-sequenced manner. The major components o fthe
project are planned as:

A. InstitutionalDevelopment($180,000)
This component will support the improvement o f the institutional capacity to carry out the
formulation, coordination, and implementation o f appropriate statistical policies and programs
that will address to the needs o f Tajikistan. It will support the review and improvement o f
existing legal framework and development o f an institutional framework that will clearly define
the interactionand dialog betweenGKS and relevant line ministries and statistical agencies. This
component will also support the improvement o f organizational structure o f the national
statistical system. Expected outputs will be improved statistical legislation and regulations that
promote the effective production and use o f data while guaranteeing the confidentiality o f


                                                     5

individual records, as well as a better functioning organizational structure for the national
statistical system.

B. HumanResourceDevelopment($530,000)
The target is to improve the qualifications o fthe personnel inall statistical offices ofthe national
statistical system. Training will be provided in basic and advanced methodologies and
techniques, particularly those that support the priority indicators for MISP. Training should be in
the form of seminars abroad and inthe country, consultancies, and on thejob training. There will
also be substantial opportunity for staff to go on study tours, mostly to CIS countries, and to
participate ininternational seminars.

C.Developmentof StatisticalInfrastructure($1,040,000)
In general, GKS inherited weak methodological skills from the Soviet period; inasmuch as
sampling methods were not well developed under Soviet statistics and nearly all methodological
decisions were made in Moscow. GKS therefore needs to build up the skills from a very low
level inmany respects. For each new area GKS needs to acquire necessary skills (classifications,
sampling, seasonal adjustment, data quality) and will create a working group, which would
include staff members from the methodology division but also from subject matter divisions that
would be involve inthis issues. Because o f the risk o f future staff turnover, these working groups
will need to prepare methodological materials inwriting and post them on the LAN, for use by
other staff members as needed.

Therefore, this component addresses the improvement o f the basic elements o f the statistical
infrastructure: statistical registers, sample frames, classifications and methodologies, statistical
computer packages for analysis o f survey data, and Geographical Information System (GIS) for
statistical mapping.

D.DataDevelopment($1,290,000)
This component will support the adaptation of internationally accepted standards and
methodologies in data collection, compilation, and validation by GKS and other relevant
agencies. It will also support further development o f sectoral statistics on issues such as national
accounts, price statistics, vital registration, health, education, poverty and living standards,
employment, public finance, agriculture and transportation.

E.PhysicalInfrastructureandEquipment($1,725,000)
This component will support upgrading existing IT, transportation and other equipment that i s
essential to carry out existing and project activities.       Equipment to be financed includes
transportation vehicles, computers and networking equipment, IT accessories, survey equipment
and accessories, and office furniture and supplies usedby GKS as well as line ministries.

F.ProjectManagement($250,000)
GKS will be the main executing agency o f the project and will be responsible for its
management. To effectively carry out the implementation and daily project administrative work,
a project coordinator who i s an expert inproject management, a financial management specialist,
a procurement specialist and an assistant will be hiredby the executing agency. Specifically, this
unit will coordinate project activities, manage reporting and auditing activities and ensure



                                                  6

compliance with the procurement, disbursement and financial management policies and
procedures.

Technical Annex 4 contains detailed descriptions o f each component.

4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

The most important lesson learned from previous assistance is the need for a more systematic
approach, as inthe MISP, instead o f the piecemeal approach that was the case earlier. Statistical
capacity building requires integrated and coordinated support that could take a long-term
commitment.     Previous experience from Tajikistan and other countries demonstrated that
fragmented and uncoordinated capacity building activities do not result in sustainable
improvements in statistical production and dissemination. Given that this project i s based on
MISP, it ensures that support will be provided to the whole national statistical system in a
coordinated way. The project will also support specific measures to strengthen coordination,
collaboration, networking, and information sharing among stakeholders.

Another important lesson learned from previous capacity building project i s that projects are
often not sustainable once external support stops. This project emphasizes the ownership by the
government and close coordination between all stakeholders. The Government contributes
around 17 percent o f the total cost o f the project and included it inthe NDS o f Tajikistan, which
will ensure its sustainability after the end o f the project. Further, this project focuses on
strengthening legal and institutional frameworks, improving human resources, and building
necessaryphysical and statistical infrastructure. This will ensure that appropriate allocation from
the budget and investments will be provided for the statistical system with the active
involvement o f a wide range o f users and producers. As a result, new demand for high-quality
data, stimulated by training, producer-user dialogue, and data dissemination, will provide an
additional impetus for sustainability.

The experience from the implementation o f the previous statistical capacity building project
funded by the TFSCB demonstrated that projects in Tajikistan can be implemented without
creating a stand-alone project implementation unit. In the case o f current project, the
implementingagency, GKS, is very much committed and motivated that allows going for the
"no-formal-PIU" option. However, given the still existing capacity constraints a small project
coordination team consisting o f local consultants will help relevant GKS staff in such project
implementationissues as procurement, financial management and disbursements, monitoring and
evaluation.

Another important lesson worth mentioning i s the twinning issue. Experience from various
statistical capacity building projects implemented in other countries showed that a twinning
arrangement between GKS and a western statistical office could be a better approach instead o f
hiring several consulting firms or individual consultants. In the long-term this could allow
building lasting partnership that can go beyond the project life. The MAPS (Marrakech Action




                                                   7

Plan for Statistics) Advisory Board2recommended greater use o f statistical offices of developed
countries through a twinning mechanism to help reduce the risk o f implementation o f capacity
building projects that could be constrained by the lack of expertise and technical assistance. The
Board also recommended raising this issue withinthe context of the OECD Statistics Committee
and through EUwithinEuropean statistical offices.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

There are three likely alternatives to the project that were considered during preparation. These
are:


0     Providing support through a series o f interventions aimed at improving specific areas o f
      statistics funded by various donors and international organizations. This was rejected
      because as discussed above piecemeal approaches do not provide sustainable solutions.
      Instead, all areas o f the N S S need to be improved in a systematic and coordinated way.
      Supporting the implementation o f the MISP ensures that the approach i s country owned
      and country driven, and that activities are well coordinated and well sequenced.
0     Providing support for only GKS instead o f whole statistical system i s another approach that
      was rejected because improvements are needed in all parts o f the system, including line
      ministriesand other producers and users o f statistics.
0     Another approach considered during the preparation i s to provide support through existing
      projects and programs such as the PRS, PSRP or PBC. This was rejected because creating
      statistical capacity and providing necessary data will be the foundation for better programs
      and projects as well as for monitoring and evaluation. Otherwise, improvement o f the
      national statistical systemwould be delayed.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)

IDA has formed partnerships with donors to help the State Statistical Committee of Tajikistan
implementthe project. DFID and SIDA are main partners inthis project andproviding support in
the mount of E600,OOO and US$ 17.1 million SwedishKroner, respectively. Both donors agreed
on putting their contributions into a Bank managed trust fund for the implementation o f the
project. The Trust Fund for Strengthening the National Statistical System o f Tajikistan
(TF0703 86) has already been established. The Turkish International Cooperation Agency
(TIKA) is also interested in supporting the project through providing training invarious areas o f
statistics in Turkey as well as providing short and long-term experts. The implementation o f the
project will also be coordinated and monitored by all partners through joint mid-term reviews
that were already included inthe administration agreements with donor partners.

EUROSTAT i s another partner inthe implementation o f the project, although it does not make a
direct contribution. EUROSTAT has allocated 300,000 for various activities to be implemented
in 2006 that are closely linked to the activities of the project. Further, it will also allocate the

 MarrakechAction Planfor Statistics,Minutes of the first meetingofthe AdvisoryBoard, October26 and27,2005,
Washington,D.C.Chairedby Jim Adams, Vice President,Operationsand Country Services, WorldBank.
Documentis inthe projectfile.


                                                       8

same amount for 2007. The TTL has been closely coordinating all activities o f the project from
the very beginning with EUROSTAT.

Further, the project team has also been coordinating project components with IMF, FAO,
UNICEF and ADB to avoid duplication and increase effectiveness o f the implementation. The
TTL had meetingswith all relevant partners from the beginning both inthe field and here at the
headquarters.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements


Given the fact that the project is aimed at improving the statistical system o f the country it will
be required to ensure appropriate level of commitment and support o f various government
agencies and ministries. In order to ensure this, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be
established by the Government, It i s assumedthat PSC will be a high level body that would meet
twice a year and perform the following key functions:
    ..  Ensureefficient interdepartmental (inter-ministerial) interaction& resolving
    .   interdepartmental (inter-ministerial) issues;
        Endorse project implementationplans;
        Exercise monitoring and evaluation o f project progress on a semi-annual basis;
        Twice a year report to the Government on project implementation status and, if
        necessary, propose improvement recommendations.

GKS will be the main executing agency o f the project and will be responsible for its overall
management and implementation. To effectively carry out the implementation and daily project
administrative work, there will be a project coordination team (PCT) o f up to 5 persons. A
project coordinator who i s an expert inproject management, a financial management specialist, a
procurement specialist and an assistant will be hired by the GKS. Specifically, this unit will
coordinate project activities, manage reporting and auditing activities and ensure compliance
with the procurement, disbursement and financial management policies and procedures. All other
aspects o f the project would be implementedby relevant GKS staff with the assistance o f local
and international consultants.

It is important to note that the project coordination team will not be a stand-alone PIU as it is the
case inmany other donor-funded projects. The PCT will be assisting GKS staff in implementing
the project, but it will not implementthe project itself. This i s inline with the directions provided
in the Paris donor conference on harmonization, Bank's policy on project implementation
arrangements and thejoint GoT/WB/ADB CPPR recommendations.

3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

To track progress towards the desired outcomes, the project coordination team will assist GKS to
regularly monitor a set o f intermediate results indicators in accordance with the results
framework specified inAnnex 3. The benchmarks for these indicators will be obtained from the
results of a baseline survey to be undertaken during the first year o f the project implementation.
GKS will monitor implementation o f the project through quarterly financial management reports
and annual audits and other reports on semi-annual basis. A joint midtermreview will be carried


                                                  9

out by the government and development partners about two and a half years after the project
becomes effective. This will provide an in-depthassessment o f progress towards desiredproject
outcomes and will recommend measures to reorient the project if needed to ensure that it will
achieve its objectives.     N o later than four months after the grant closing date, the project
coordination unit will prepare and provide to IDA a report on the execution o f the project, its
costs and the current and future benefits to be derived from it, to be attached to IDA'S
ImplementationCompletion Memorandum (ICM) inaccordance with IDA guidelines.

A set of indicators of statistical capacity building developed by the PARIS21 consortiumwill be
usedto develop a monitoring baseline and for regular project monitoring. These indicators will
be supplementedby information from the baseline survey mentioned above and other sources,
including IMF Reports on the Observance o f Standards and Codes, IMF multi-sector statistical
mission reports, surveys o f users o f statistical products, an independent assessment of statistical
products against the master plan, audits o f management, staff, facilities, human resource training
and records and GDDS metadata. The evaluation will be carried out by an independentagency
appointed by the implementingagency.

Giventhe magnitude o f spending associatedwith IT underthe project, GKS agreedthat the PCT
would monitor progress o f the I T investmentsinterms o f cost and schedule. These are two key
indicators o f statistical agencies with regardto implementingIT. Variances incost and schedules
of I T will be reviewedat mid-termo f the project.

4. Sustainability

The recipient has shown a strong commitment to strengtheningthe capacity o f national statistical
system and has demonstrated its readiness to work on the project by preparingthe MISP that was
cleared and endorsed by the Government inMarch, 2005. The project i s built on the foundations
that have been laidwith the grant the Bank has extended to GKS and there i s strong ownership o f
it. The Government agreed on providing around 17 percent o f the total project cost, which
demonstrates its ownership o f the project. Further, the government has also subscribed to the
IMF's General Data Dissemination System(GDDS) in late 2004, which provides guidelines for
the production and release o f statistical data. This is another indicator that the Government is
committed to improving the national statistical system.

The proposed twinning arrangement could also become an important factor in ensuring project
sustainability. The twinning partner, a well established statistical agency from the developed
countries, can provide a systematic and programmatic assistance to GKS in capacity building. In
the long-run, GKS could become a twining partner (possibly in tandem) for other statistical
offices o f the region.

Another important indicator that will ensure sustainability i s the development o f better user
producer dialogue. By developing the users/producers dialogue and through the improvement o f
the data quality in the PRS and MDG context, the project will also increase the demand for
statistics within the Government and the civil society.




                                                   10

Sustainability o f this project would largely depend on the Government's future commitment to
provide budgetary support to supporting the statistical system. In approving the MISP and
including the project in the National Strategy o f Development o f Tajikistan the Government
committed to allocate necessary budget to support the national statistical system over a period
that would go beyond the lifetime o f this project.

Sustainability o f I T investments depends on adequate operation and maintenance o f hardware,
systems and software. It should initially be noted that, at whatever its level of funding inthe past
decade, GKS has with limited resources skillfully and efficiently maintained its existing base o f
239 computers, 110 printers and a network at headquarters serving 52 computers. This
equipment has lasted to the end of its depreciation cycle and far beyond. Sustainability of the I T
investments will be promoted by trying to keep down projected operation and maintenance
costs.. Detailed designand procurement specifications will take into account future operation and
maintenance costs (possibly 5 years for servers, 3 years for workstations, and software licenses
that will keep GKS's software up to date with the latest upgrades).

5. Critical risks and possible controversialaspects

                                                                                                 RiskRating
                  Rkks                                  Risk Mitigation Measures                with Mitigation
T o project development objective
Insufficientpolitical will to change      Constanttracking of situation on the ground and            M
statisticalsystem's institutional         maintaining of dialogue with the Governmentthrough
framework currently fitting the overall   the Country Office and field-basedTask Team
status-quo of the government.             members.Training to high-level governmentofficials
                                          on the needfor evidence-baseddecisionmaking and
                                          the needfor ensuringof impartiality of statistical
                                          system.

                                          Close supervisionand tracking of situation on the
Attitude/commitment changetowards         ground andmaintaining of dialoguewith the
the project in case of GKS                Governmentthrough the Country Office and field-             M
managementchange.                         basedTask Team members. Timely training to GKS
                                          management and mid-level staff on project
                                          implementation, Bank-Governmentrole, statistical
                                          system reform.

                                          Training of officials and data users inthe use of
Commitment of other government            statistics; improvingdata quality to promote value of
agenciesto support statisticalwork        statistics inmonitoring and evaluatingprograms and          M
                                         projects.

                                         Revising the legal framework in order to enhance
Capacity of GKS to sustain the            GKS' central role
developmentof the statistical system                                                                  N

To component results
Absorption capacity of GKS and other     Increaseinthe number and capacity of staff; creation         M
statisticaloffices in line ministries is  o f aproject management unit.
insufficientto implementthe project

Key, recruitedor newly trained staff


                                                          11

                                                                                                  RiskRating
                  Risks                                 RiskMitigationMeasures                   with Mitigation
are not retained in the statistical       Improvement inthe incentive structure and a                  M
                                          remuneration schemethat betterreflects staff
                                          performance and qualification. Establishment o f a
                                          special carrier path for Government statisticians.


Activities and responsibilities o f
different statistical agencies are not    Improved institutionalframework that will ensure             M
coordinated                               increased coordination and communication between
                                          statistical agencies.

                                         I                                                      I
                                                                                                       M
Overall risk rating                                                                                             I
Risk Rating H(High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M(Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)
             -

6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Negotiations Condition

The Project Operational Manual (POM) and Financial Management Action plan, all acceptable
to IDA has been developed by the Recipient.

Management approval condition

The project counterpart account has beenopened.
The FinancialManagement systemacceptable to IDA has beenestablished.

Effectiveness condition

The Grant Agreement betweenthe Republic of Tajikistan and IDA acting as the administrator o f
the funds provided by DFIDand Sidahas beenexecuted.
Project Coordination Team (PCT) with terms o f reference, staff and resources, all acceptable to
the Association has beenestablished by the Recipient.

Other covenants

The Recipient shall maintainthe project counterpart account ina commercial bank acceptableto
IDA andregularly deposit to this account amounts sufficient to finance its counterpart
contribution to the project.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economic and financial analyses

Economic. The Project i s not amenable to a cost-benefit analysis as national statistical offices
have hardly any significant cost recovery. The economic benefits from the project will derive
from three main sources. First, improvements in the efficiency o f statistical operations and
agencies will result in broader coverage o f and higher-quality data from given levels o f


                                                          12

expenditure. Second, better data will enhance the potential for evidence-based decision making,
at policy, program and project levels. Third, the project would help address the significant costs
o f missing or inaccurate data.

Financial. National statistics are a public good and generally financed from tax revenue. There
i s only very limited potential for cost recovery, mainly through data dissemination. Therefore,
only marginal financial returns are expected from this project. However, there can be a fiscal
impact contributing to a better budgeting process and a potential increase in revenues due to
better information and coverage, as well as a possible increase in recurrent costs to cover
enhanced operations o f the national statistical system.

2. Technical

The technical design o f the project i s based on a detailed analysis o f the strengths and
weaknesses o f the national statistical system as provided in the MISP developed under the
Bank's assistance. The proposed developments in management o f statistical agencies, statistical
infrastructure, and statistical operations and the choice o f technology are appropriate to the
borrower's needs and capabilities, as well as international good practice and standards. The
specifications for equipment, including computing, communications and transportation
equipment, will be reviewed by technical specialists and will be in line with the World Bank
procurement practices and local requirements.

3. Fiduciary

3.I Financial Management Issues. In December 2005 financial management arrangements for
the proposed Strengthening the National Statistical System Project were assessed to determine
whether the financial management arrangements put inplace by the implementing agency, GKS,
are acceptable to the Bank, and to monitor the process o f strengthening the financial
management system (FMS) in readiness for the proposed project. These financial management
arrangements include systems o f budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, auditing, and
internal controls.

GKS will have a computerized accounting system in place before the Bank approval of the
proposed project. Chief Accountant o f the GKS will take overall responsibility over proposed
project Financial Management arrangements. However, GKS will hire a financial management
specialist who will be responsible for the project related technical financial issues. Terms o f
reference for the consultant will be developed by the GKS and agreed with World Bank before
launching the recruitment process.

A Financial Management Action Plan has been developed, and will be agreed with GKS for
establishment o f a financial management system that meets requirements o f the World Bank.
Annual audits for the project accounts will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelinesfor
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (June 2003). The
guidelines require a single audit opinion on the project financial statements as a whole, which
will include the Designated account Statement and the Statement o f Expendituresused as the
basis o f withdrawing funds from the Grant Account.



                                                  13

3.2 Procurement Issues.

General: Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Recipient and
the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be updated at least annually or as
required to reflect actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include: hardware and
software to modernize the pilot ministries; equipment for electronic document system
management information centre. For procurement o f goods under the project, the following
methods will be used: ICB, NCB, Shopping and Direct Contracting, whenjustified. The Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for ICB contracts will be used.

Selection of Consultants: Consulting services from firms and individuals will be required. The
following methods will be used for selecting firms and individuals whose services will be
requiredfor the project: Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS); Least Cost Selection (LCS);
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), Individual Consultants (IC), and, where
justified, Single Source Selection (SSS). Shortlist o f consulting firms for services estimated to
cost less than US$lOO,OOO       equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national
consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Guidelines.

Training: Training i s an important part o f the project and will include project-related study
tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under
goods or service providers' contracts, including costs o f training materials, space and equipment
rental, travel and per diem costs o f trainees and trainers.

Operating Costs:       Operating costs will include equipment for operation and maintenance,
communications (e.g. email, telephone and fax), utilities, and office space rental costs. Operating
costs will be incurred according to an annual budget satisfactory to the Bank and using
procedures to be described inthe Pr0.ject Operational Manual.

4. Social

It is expected that improvednational statistical systemwill lead to improved social services
deliveryto the population, inparticular to the poor insuch areas as health, education and social
protection. This i s also underlinedinthe Government's NDS. The project will also provide
assistanceto the relevant structures o f the Ministry o f Labor and Social Protection inboth
statistical issues and evidence-based decision making inthe determininggovernment policy and
spending for social protection, such unemployment benefits, pensions, transfers, etc.



                                                  14

5. Environment

The project focuses on institutional reforms and capacity building o f the national statistical
system within the broad context o f the in the governance system reform. It doesn't have any
direct environmental impact, and the project does not include any civil works. The project i s
therefore rated as `C'. Any minor refurbishments o f office space required for the installation o f
equipment that are foreseen under the project will be executed in line with prevailing national
legislation and all bidding documents will make reference to the need to carry out any works in
line with prevailing environmental standards and safety regulations.

6. Safeguardpolicies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                    No
  EiivironinentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                                              [I                    [XI
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                            [I                    [XI
  PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                                 [ I                   [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 [I                     [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [I                     [XI
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                   11                     [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                    [ I                    [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [I                     [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                              [I                     [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [I                     [XI

7. PolicyExceptions and Readiness

This project complies with all applicable Bank policies. The Project is entirely consistent with
Bank Policy and no exceptions are requested.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties` claims on the
disputedareas


                                                            15

                     Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
                  TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem

Country background. Tajikistan, a small economy with a population of 6.8 million and a GDP
o f US$2.1 billion, gained its independence in 1991. Shortly after independence, a civil war
brought extensive physical damage and heavy human losses to the country. After reaching a
peace accord in mid-1997 the Government turned its attention to governing and economic and
social reforms. Infact, since the end o f civil war Tajikistan has done remarkably well. Within the
first few years after the war the Government established its control over the country and started
concentrating on political consolidation and security. After achieving these, it focused on
repairing and developing a war torn country that, even before the war, was among the poorest in
the CIS.

The cumulative growth o f almost 60 percent o f the economy over the last five years is quite
impressive and demonstrates the Government's success, even though the growth started from a
very low base. The postwar recovery in productivity, especially in agriculture and expansion o f
services and construction fuelled by remittances from migrant workers significantly contributed
to the economic growth in this period. This growth in economy has significantly helped the
reduction o f poverty, from 81% in 1999 to 64% in 2003. Tajikistan, however, still remains the
poorest country inthe ECA region and differences inpoverty rate betweenoblasts (province) are
still significant, ranging from 84% in Gorno- Badakhshan to 45% in Rayons under Republican
Jurisdiction.

Sector issues. The transition from a centrally plannedto a market oriented economy has brought
rapid changes in all areas o f economic and social life o f Tajikistan. The social and economic
reforms o f recent years have changed the environment in which the statistics must function. A
system is now needed for collecting economic information based on structured methods that are
used in countries with a market economy. As a result, statistical offices at all levels have been
obliged to reform the system o f collecting and processing data and delivering it to users.
Therefore since independence, the nature o f the tasks o f the GKS had to undergo significant
changes. The legal basis for the collection, compilation and dissemination o f the statistical
information i s the Law on State Statistics o f the Republic o f Tajikistan, adopted inMay 1997 and
amended in April 2003, to reflect the new status o f the GKS as an independent state statistics
committee. The law includes provisions for all statistical agencies of Tajikistan but assigns GKS
the leading role in production and dissemination o f statistical information. The upgraded status
o f GKS to a statistical committee as well as its composition and responsibilities were spelled out
also inthe Government Decision o f February 2001.

In recent years, a number of government-led processes have had a major impact on statistical
requirements for Tajikistan. First, on March 24, 2000, the President o f Tajikistan established a
working group to prepare a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), in conjunction with
government efforts to improve the living standards o f the population and to solve
social/economic problems. A draft PRSP was prepared by October 2000. This document was
discussed with international organization and further elaborated during 2000-03. International
organizations that participated in the process included the International Monetary Fund (IMF),
World Bank (WB), Asian Development Bank (ADB) and UN Development Program (UNDP),



                                                   16

among others. The PRSP was approved on 21 May 2003 by Presidential decree #1080, which
laid down the main elements o f the country's transition strategy to a fully market-based economy
and to reduce poverty by accelerating economic growth.

The strategy envisioned inthe PRSP i s information intensive and requires continuous monitoring
o f poverty and performances o f various sub-sectors o f the economy for developing policy
measures to reduce poverty. The document mentions the importance o f obtaining relevant and
reliable statistical data for the monitoring and assessment o f the strategy, and for providing a
basis for the successful implementation. Sub-sequent PRSP progress reports and joint staff
assessment reports emphasize the importance o f statistical data in the poverty reduction and
monitoring and evaluation of results. Monitoring and evaluation, based primarily on statistical
data, were to constitute key elements o f the strategy, which will enable policymakers to:

    0    Follow the progress o f the strategy and measure the extent to which objectives are being
         met duringimplementation;
    0    Identify current problems and ways to solve them;
    0    Update objectives at each stage o f implementation.

Second major initiative led by the Government i s the monitoring o f Millennium Development
Goals, which gave additional responsibilities to GKS. In order to provide a basis for the
monitoring o f MDGs the GKS has been cooperating with all relevant public institutions, as well
as with international agencies (UNDP, UN, and WB). The first MDG progress report was
prepared incooperation with GKS in2003.

Third activity that GKS involved in and played a major role on was the preparatory work to
participate in the General Data Dissemination System (GDDS) o f the IMF. This activity started
in 2004 after the IMF reviewed GKS data and prepared the Report on Observing the Standards
and Codes (ROSC). Authorized agencies that are responsible for the corresponding GDDS
indicators were GKS (system coordinator inthe Republic o f Tajikistan), Ministry o f Finance and
the National Bank of Tajikistan. These agencies preparedmetadata for the GDDS indicators and
inAugust 2004 delivereda draft o fthe metadatato the IMF Statistics Department, together with
an application for Tajikistan to join the GDDS and on November 17, 2004 formally participated
inthe GDDS.

Inthe light of above discussion, it was obvious that the first step towards preparing a medium-
term macroeconomic framework and poverty reduction strategy would be to strengthen the
national statistical system with a view o f transforming it into a tool that can generate reliable
statistical data. As a first step towards modernization in 2000, GKS announced a 3-year
"Integrated Reform Program" for statistics, which was coincided with the Government's 3-year
plan o f economic reform. The Government approved the Programthat included such aspirations,
including:
    0   Raising staff qualifications
    0   Application o f modem technology inthe collection and processing o f data.
    0   Application o f modem sampling methods
    0   Broad use o f scientifically-based statistical methodologies for estimates and calculations
    0   Documentationo f metadata for the public



                                                   17

Many o f the tasks described in the plan were fulfilled or partially fulfilled. Some o f them were
not completed due to lack o f funding.

Fourth, in May 2005 the President has established a Coordination Committee chaired by the
Prime-minister to develop and monitor implementation o f Government's new long- and mid-
term strategies, the National Development Plan for 2006-2015 and the second Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper. The NDS identifies country's national goal as "strengthening o f political
structures and achieving economic well-being and social welfare for the population o f Tajikistan
based on the principles o f freedom, human dignity and equal opportunity for the realization o f
human potential". NDS and PRSP2 priorities are (1) public administration reform, (2)
development o f private sector and attracting investments, and (3) development o f human
potential. The draft NDS was presentedinNew York at UNhead-quarters inDecember last year
and the Government i s about to finalize both strategic documents. Given the obvious need for
statistical data and capacity to process and analyze it GKS was given the responsibility o f the
secretariat o f the Coordination Committee. The NDS implementation tracking i s based on the
range o f quantitative indicators, for whose management GKS will be made responsible.

Even though since the independence GKS has been trying to adopt standard international
statistical methodologies and to remove old management structures, this transition has posed
major challenges for GKS. For many decades prior to independence, statistics simply operated
to trace the implementation o f the government's economic plan. The dramatic changes in the
economic environment and the necessary adoption o f techniques and procedures to monitor
economic movements have exceeded the adaptation capability o f the agency.

As a result, there is now an increasing pressure on the national statistical systemto produce and
disseminate relevant statistics that meet internationally accepted standards. The critical issues to
be addressedare:
        Weak institutional capacity and inefficient organizational structure o f the statistical
        systemhinder undertaking efficient statistical operations.
        Ineffective institutional coordination betweenvarious statistical agencies and the GKS
        and lack o f an effective dialog betweendata users and producers create discrepancies
        betweendata supply and data needs.
        Lack o f well developed human resources framework and properjob definitions prevent
        upward mobility and hence reduce the incentives for the staff.
        Inadequate analytical capability and qualifications o f personnel o fthe statistical system
        preventadaptation o f advance methodologies and techniques for collection, analysis and
        dissemination o f data as well as the use o f existing economic and social data
        Weak statistical infrastructure hinders institutionalizing the core statistics the national
        statistical system produces, such as censuses and surveys.
        Weak physical and IT infrastructure reduces efficiency o f the system and creates
        significant time lag between data collection and dissemination.




                                                  18

This project will strengthen the capacity o f the national statistical system to generate reliable,
timely, and relevant statistical data to support and monitor development and poverty reduction.
The results o f the project will include a better legislative framework for statistical work, and
better human skills, better equipment, and better data to monitor progress. The data will be o f
benefit to the government and people, but will also be of use to the Bank and other regional and
international agencies inmaintaining a policy dialogue with the government and inplanning and
implementing other projects and programs.




                                                 19

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                   TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem

     Project                                 Sector Issue                          Latest ISR rating or OED
                                                                                  Evaluation Rating for closed
                                                                                Projects;Implementation Status
                                                                                     for non-Bank Projects

1999 Survey of      A survey at sample of 2000 householdswas conducted          Donejointly with UNDP.
Living Standards    ($150,000) focusing on:                                     Implemented successfully.
                    Capacity buildingof GKS inpreparing, conductingand
                    analyzing the survey results, and Provision of technical
                    equipment (PCs).
2003 Survey of      Secondsurvey of living standards at 4160 households         Implementedsuccessfully.Results
Living Standards    ($132,000) focusing on: Capacity building of GKS in         usedby the Bank, GOTand the
                    preparing, conducting and analyzingthe survey results,      donor community.
                    and Provision of technical equipment (PCs).
Strengtheningof     Multi-donor trust fund ($353,000) focusing on:              Closedintime and implemented
national statistics           Institutional and statisticaldiagnoses,           successfully.
program




                    Equipment- $69,000, including 2 risographs,2 servers,
                    20 computersand severalhubs.
                                                       Donors
TACIS               Technical assistance and educationsupport (200,000          Implemented by EUROSTAT.
                    ECU) to GKS in 1993-1994 focusedregister o f
                    enterprise
                    statistics of enterprises
                    statistics of externaltrade.
                    ProgramReforms inthe Sector of Official Statisticsof        Implementedby EUROSTAT.
                    the Republic of Tajikistan (EUR250,OOO) in 1999.The
                    program focused:
                              Register of enterprises
                              Enterprisestatistics
                              Statistics of externaltrade
                              Publication and disseminationof statisticaldata
                    Price index for construction
                    Statistics-8program (300,000 Euro) focusing on              Will be implementedby
                    agricultural statistics, business registers,classifications EUROSTAT.
                    and information, communicationsand transportation
                    statistics
ADB                 In2002 survey ofpoverty indicators($360,000) on             Implemented successfully.
                    sample of 6000 households.The initiative focusedon:
                    focusing on: capacity building of GKS inpreparing,
                    conducting and analyzing the survey results, and
                    provision of technical equipmentand software.




                                                         20

                              Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring
                    TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem

                                            ResultsFramework
                 PDO                     Project Outcome Indicators               Use of Project Outcome
                                                                                        Information

The development objective is to       Access to information/                Years 1-5: GKS management and
improve efficiency and effectiveness  dissemination                         Project Coordinator will monitor
of the National Statistical System to 1.  Rate o fuser satisfaction         progress in establishing intermediate
enable it to provide relevant, timely     significantly increases by EOP    indicators and take action ifthese
and reliable data for evidence-based  2. Targeted Statistical products are  are not being satisfactorily
policy making.                            easily accessible in relevant     implemented.
                                          media with metadata and
                                          interpretation o f findings.      Progress towards project outcomes
                                                                            will be reported twice ayear and
                                      Coverage/ Accuracy / Reliability:     compared with baseline data.
                                          Data sources are sound and
                                          relate to the targeted coverage.  There will bejoint mid-term reviews
                                          Increase in survey response       with participation o f all donors that
                                          rates                             will be carried out inthe third year
                                          Regular validations are carried   possibly inNovember.
                                          out for data sources and
                                          statistical products; acceptable  Year 4: N o improvement inthese
                                          statistical techniques in the     outcomes may indicate that the
                                          process o f data collection,      project components and the
                                          compilation and authenticity      implementation strategy need to be
                                          verification are efficiently and  re-examined.
                                          effectively applied.
                                          Some key statistical indicators,
                                          such as the estimation o f the
                                          shadow economy, number o f
                                          labor migrants and remittances,
                                          real estate inflation, birth and
                                          death statistics became more
                                          reliable, timely, precise and
                                          compatible with internationally
                                          accepted standards.

                                      Timeliness:
                                      7.  Time lag betweendata
                                          collection and dissemination
                                          was reduced significantly.
                                      8.  Statistical outputs are released
                                          within the time limits and with
                                          frequency meeting GDDS
                                          requirements

      Intermediate Outcomes           Intermediate OutcomeIndicators           Use of Intermediate Outcome
                                                                                         Monitoring
1. Adequate policy, legal and         1.1 Statist ical legislation and
regulatory framework as well as           regulations are inplace for       Years 1-5: Action will be taken to
effective institutional framework,        institutional, legal and          either ensure that these are put into
management and human resources            regulatory framework and          place or to redesign the project to



                                                         21

 for statistics are inplace                  safeguarding confidentiality o f      .orrect deficiencies.
                                             source data
                                         1.2 Mechan isms for effective inter-      (ear 5: These results are compared
                                             agency coordination are               vith baseline data to evaluate the
                                             established and operational.          r o ject outcome.
                                             Duplication o f data collection
                                             among agencies i s eliminated at
                                             national and regional level.
                                             Increased volume o f data
                                             received through administrative
                                             channels.
                                         1.3 Mechan isms for effective
                                             dialogue with the data users and
                                             providers are operational.
                                         1.4M anagement Information
                                             Systems (MIS) are usedfor
                                             strategy planning, work
                                             programs, accounting. MIS are
                                             usedfor proper maintenance
                                             and use o f computer and
                                             communication systems.
                                         1.5 S taff use and upkeep acquired
                                             skills.
                                         1.6 GKS central a nd local level
                                             structure optimized and staff
                                             trained.
                                         1.7 Staff o f statistic related units o f
                                             ME,MH,MoJ, MSLP, MET,
                                             MFtrained.

                                         2.1 Busi ness registercompiled and
 developed and made operational              being maintained and used.            Years 1-5: Action will be taken to
                                         2.2 Required international                :ither ensure that these are put into
                                             economic and social                   place or to redesign the project to
                                             classifications adapted.              correct deficiencies.
                                         2.3 Cost effective and efficient
                                             methods usedfor statistical           Year 5: These results are compared
                                              operation.                           with baseline data to evaluate the
                                         2.4 Standard question naire for           project outcome.
                                              survey conducting developed
                                              and applied.

  3. Main statistical agencies have      3.1 Intematio nally accepted
 developedupgraded and put into               standards and methodologies are      Years 1-5: Action will be taken to
 operation their core statistical             used in data production              either ensure that these are put into
 programs including surveys.             3.2 Targeted surve ys conducted,          place or to redesign the project to
                                              thematic statistical data are        correct deficiencies.
                                              developed and results
                                              disseminated                         Year 5: These results are compared
                                                                                   with baseline data to evaluate the
                                                                                   project outcome.
                                         4.1 Capacit y for physical operations
  infrastructure and equipmentto              i s adequate and well maintained     Years 1-5: Action will be taken to
  facilitate the production and          4.2 At lea st 75% o f staff at each       either ensure that these are put into
I dissemination o f data by statistical      unit at GKS headquarters have         place or to redesign the project to
  agencies are undertaken and                workstations with direct access       correct deficiencies.


                                                            22

Iadequately maintained.         to databases for analysis and
                                tabulation, and 60% of field      Year 5: These results are compared
                                staff have workstations           with baseline data to evaluate the
                            4.3 Cost or schedu le variances in IT project outcome.
                                do not exceed 10%.
I                          I                                     I




                                             23

in b
L  O

I




     4


.*0
Y

c

U
M5
13




      r


   0
     M




a

 b

 0
 8




           3
           M




+
i     x

                          Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
              TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe National Statistical System

This project will be a Specific Investment Loan, under the umbrella o f the STATCAP
Adaptable Program Loan to improve statistical capacity through a sector-wide approach,
using the MISP as the basis for investments. STATCAP i s designedto support a medium
to long-term approach. To enter the STATCAP lending program borrowers need to fulfill
the following certain eligibility criteria. Tajikistan has met all requirementso f STATCAP
and the project components are designed to support the implementation o f the MISP, and
will be implemented in a coherent, consistent and well-sequenced manner. The major
components o f the project are planned as (a) Institutional Development, (b) Human
Resource Development, (c) Development o f Statistical Infrastructure, (d) Data
Development, (e) Physical Infrastructure and Equipmentand (0Project Management.

A Institutional Development: $180,000

This component will support the improvement o f the institutional capacity to carry out
the formulation, coordination, and implementation of appropriate statistical policies and
programs that will address to the needs o f Tajikistan. It will support the review and
improvement o f existing legal framework and development o f an institutional framework
that will clearly define the interaction and dialog between GKS and relevant line
ministries and statistical agencies. This component will also support the improvement of
organizational structure o f the national statistical system. Expected outputs will be
improved statistical legislation and regulations that promote the effective production and
use o f data while guaranteeing the confidentiality o f individual records, as well as a better
functioning organizational structure for the national statistical system.

Al. Legal framework
Official statistics in Tajikistan are governed by the law "About State Statistics," passed
on May 15, 1997, and amendment on April 22, 2003 containing modifications and
additions to the 1997 Law. Further, on January 11, 2001 the President o f the Republic
signed the Decree "About the Formation o f the State Statistical Committee o f the
Republic o f Tajikistan" and on February 14, 2001 the Regulation No 74 "Questions about
the State Statistical Committee o f the Republic of Tajikistan." Besides the above-
mentioned Law, State Statistical Committee (GKS) i s also guided by the laws "About
population census" and "About the State Registers" as well as by the Constitution o f the
Republic.

The Law defines legal and economic basis o f the GKS and regulates legal relations
connected with the collection, processing, analysis, distribution, use and storage o f
statistical information. The Law further stipulates that the state creates a uniform system
o f primary account and statistics, carries out a management o f them, and defines the
maintenance and nature o f statistical activity throughout the Republic.




                                               32

This sub-component focuses on the review and possible improvements of the existing
legal framework. It also addresses the establishment o f a mechanism to monitor the
enforcement o f the following legal aspects:
   0    the role o f the staff infulfilling their obligations definedby law;
   0    the use o f internationally acceptedmethodologies and procedures definedby the
        law;
   0    keeping the statistical data production and dissemination inline with the norms
        and standards defined by law;
   0    responsibilities o f GKS and relevant line ministriesand other agencies in
        interaction with each other as well as indata collection, processing and sharing
        withinthe system;
   0    keepingthe respondents' data strictly confidential;
   0    encouraging responsesto surveys and censuses;
   0    encouraging the dialog betweendata users and producers; and
   0    Simultaneous release o f data to all users.

The project will also finance a study to formulate a strategy to pursue legal reform inthe
areas encompassing the legal status o f GKS, its financial autonomy, the organization and
operations o f GKS, the standardization o f official statistics production and dissemination,
census and sample survey program.

A2. Institutionalframework
The statistical system o f Tajikistan is centralized and is made up o f GKS as the leading
agency, responsible for the organization o f official statistics, as well as o f other agencies
within line ministries that produce statistical information, which they send to the Main
Computing Center (MCC) o f GKS. The National Bank has a special status as an agency
which publishes its own statistical information. Within the statistical system GKS has
two roles in statistics: as user o f statistical and administrative data produced and
presented by other institutions and provider o f statistical information. Given that
compulsory reporting forms account for the bulk o f information collected and processed
by GKS, coordination and consultations between GKS and other statistical agencies
become very important.

This sub-component will improve technical cooperation and collaboration betweenGKS
and other statistical agencies within various line ministries and strengthen institutional
framework through increased guidance for statistical operations and inter-agency
cooperation. This will lay the foundation to create a well functioning statistical system at
sectoral and regional levels and to make statistical outputs more relevant to users' needs
and for the monitoring o f development goals.

The objectives and functions o fthe statistical systemwill be to:
   0   Raise public awareness about the importance and role o f statistical information in
       the society;
   0   collect, process, analyze and disseminate quality statistical information ina
       coordinated and timely manner;
   0   promote the use o f "best practice" in statistical production and dissemination;


                                                 33

    0   promote the use o f statistical information at individual, institutional, national,
        regional and international level;
    0   build sustainable capacity for the production and use of statistical information in
        the country; and
    0   undertake cooperative and collaborative survey and researchactivities between
        the GKS, research and academic institutions.

Inlights ofthese objectives the role ofthe GKS will be reviewedand redefinedto clarify
its responsibility in setting goals, formulating statistical policies, adopting annual and
long-term statistical programs, coordinating statistical operations, and ensuring data
quality. Where necessary specialized commissions will be created consisting o f members
from relevant ministerial agencies to arrange the activities defined by the Multi-year
Integrated Statistical Plan (MISP) intheir respective sectors.

Further, the existing work program will be reviewed in order to reduce the workload in
some areas and make room for new activities. A working group will be appointed to
prepare an annual plan for reducing the burdeno f unneeded data collection, in terms o f
questions, forms, frequency and sample size.

A3. Organizational Structure
The development o f official statistics in Tajikistan requires an in-depth review of the
organizational structure o f the statistical system in general and GKS inparticular, as well
as building up certain divisions that play a leading role incollecting priority data such as
the divisions for national accounts, the business registry, prices and household incomes,
methodology and economic analysis. It may be necessary to gradually transfer personnel
from some divisions to others by increasing productivity through automation and by
cutting back on unneededactivities.

Reallocationcan be made inthe following ways:
        0   To add to the personnel o fthe six leading divisions at GKS (national accounts,
            prices, household budget survey, registry, methodology, and economic
            analysis) at least 20 persons, as a basis for expanding and upgrading their
            activities.  This in turn would require moving staff gradually from other
            activities.  As the transfer from other activities would proceed slowly, the
            government would need to `lend' GKS the required number o f persons early
            in the MISP, with the expectation of being able to compensate for the extra
            staff later inthe plan.
        0   Gradually restructure the work of preparing the monthly report so that it
           would absorb less staff time than at present. This could be done by using the
            LANto automate the preparation o f tables and graphics, and by emphasizing
           the tabular presentation of data and limiting analysis to mainvariables at least
            for the monthly report.
        0   Cutback on low-priority data collection activities. In support o f this, GKS
           needs to develop skills in evaluating the usefulness o f each data item, as a
           basis for making decisions as to which reports or data items could be omitted
           or collected less often.



                                               34

         0  B y means o f automation, reduce the number o f staff needed to do the job in
            the MCC and inthe regions, thus freeing up staff for new tasks. Inthis way,
            total staff on the MCC and the regions could be gradually reduced by 20
            workers through retirements, to compensate for the increase in the leading
            divisions.

In compliance with the Law "On State Statistics" the salaries of the staff of regional
statistical departments are funded from local budgets while expected to follow GKS
policies and guidance. The current system in Tajikistan creates the so called dual
subordination o f the government agencies at the local level, which complicates the
implementation o f technical and personnel policy by the GKS. This also allows for the
influence o f local authorities on the accuracy o f statistical data. This sub-component will
also address this issue by reviewing the existing structure and making recommendations
on how to improve the administrative framework o f the national statistics system. Based
on the recommendations o f the review the project will finance relevant activities directed
at implementation o f the recommendations. These activities will be closely coordinated
with the Public Administration Reform strategy of Tajikistan.

B. HumanResource Development: $530,000
The target is to improve the qualifications o f the personnel in statistical offices. Training
will be provided inbasic and advanced methodologies and techniques, particularly those
that support the priority indicators for MISP. Training should be inthe form o f seminars
abroad and in the country, consultancies, and on the job training. There will also be
substantial opportunity for staff to go on study tours, mostly to CIS countries, and to
participate ininternational seminars.

B1. Humanresources framework
The GKS and the national statistical system needhigh caliber, well-qualified and trained
staff to carry out the new and challenging responsibilities. A well defined human
resources framework will help upgrading personnel selection and training, introducing
staff performance incentives. It also helps improving the remuneration system by linking
it to performance and developingjob specifications for career development of managers
and regular statistical staff o f the system. Retention of well motivated and qualified staff
inthe national statistical system will eventually contribute to the objective of providing
timely, reliable and quality data by increasing productivity through improved human
resource management. There will be close coordination with planned and ongoing
activities related to public administration reforms inTajikistan.

Therefore, this sub-component o f the project will aim to develop a human resource
management framework with an incentive structure to retain and attract qualified
professionals and managers inthe national statistical system. It will consist of:
            development and implementationo f a strategy for human resource
            management;
        0   establishment o fjob profiles by function and corresponding salary scales and
            standard career paths for each profile; and




                                              35

        0     definingand setting up of a system of internal promotion and meritbased
              remuneration.

B2. Training of statistical producers
This sub-component will develop and implement a training program that contributes to
human resource capacity building in the national statistical system. The objective of this
activity i s to increase the percentage o f managers, trainers, data producers, disseminators
and IT staff who have acquired required skills to put into effective use for statistical
operations. This will requirethat comprehensive training be undertaken, not on an ad hoc
and intermittent basis, but on an ongoing and priority basis so that statistical personnel
can acquire knowledge and strategic skills that will help the core functions to deliver
desired statistical products more effectively and efficiently.

The following activities will be put inplace as part o f a continuous program to train staff
in statistical planning, statistical methods, data analysis, data management and
information technology:
        0     usingthe Institute o f Improvingthe Qualification Civil Servants for the
              statistical training o f all relevant staff from GKS and other agencies;
        0     organizing study trips to renowned statistical agencies to bring statisticians up
              to international standards;
        0     encouraging staff exchange betweenGKS and other statistical agencies;
        0     training the trainers, including university lecturers from selected universities,
              who will provide in-house training within GKS and at local universities,
        0     ensuringknowledge transfer within the national statistical systemthrough
              hands-on-training, methodologicalpublications and technical workshops and;
        0     improving data collection, processing and analysis through workshops and
              seminars to be organized for each sector involved inthe project.

Managers o f GKS and other agencies need to use appropriate management principles in
their work especially in planning, preparing work programs and budgeting, writing
proposal. All staff with management responsibilities will be given training in modern
management principles. Most o f the training programs in management will be tailor-
made and conducted in-house.              There are many national organizations that can be
approached to provide training inmanagement

There will also be induction courses for all new staff recruited into the GKS that may
cover such topics as the vision, mission and linkages within the national statistical
system; the role and structures o f the GKS and how its departments and divisions interact
with each other. The course will also be useful for statistical personnel outside the GKS.

B3. Training of statistical users
The project views data users as an integral part o f the statistical system, which i s crucial
to improvement o f collection, processing and dissemination o f quality data. Hence, it i s
important to take account o f users' perspectives in the training program. Further, it is a
known fact that existing data are not beingused effectively due to lack o f information about
available data series and lack o f empowerment and knowledge of how to effectively use



                                                   36

them. In order to promote the use of existing data, workshops will be held for main data
users that will aim at informing and empowering them inthe use o f existing data. These
workshops will addressvarious topics such as importance and value o f data; main sources of
data; data quality; and data use in planning, decision-making, monitoring, evaluation and
forecasting.

The following activities will help identify users' needs, promote the use o f statistics in
decision-making and improve users' analytical capabilities:
         0   setting up o f a panel o f target users and develop training or awareness
            programs inthe use o f statistics for each sector (target users include
             Government policy makers, journalists, businesshon-profit organizations,
            NGOs, trade unions);
         0  organization o f workshops, upon publishing statistical publications, to explain
            the results and the use o f principal indicators; and
         0  training o f staff inline ministriesindata analysis.

Further, to improve the understanding of the role of official statistics and to ensure
support for GKS and its work program, meetings and seminars for government officials
will be arranged.

C.Developmentof StatisticalInfrastructure:$1,040,000
In general, GKS inherited weak methodological skills from the Soviet period; inasmuch
as sampling methods were not well developed under Soviet statistics and nearly all
methodological decisions were made in Moscow. GKS therefore needs to build up the
skills from a very low level in many respects. For each new area GKS needs to acquire
necessary skills (classifications, sampling, seasonal adjustment, data quality) and will
create a working group, which would include staff members from the methodology
division but also from subject matter divisions that would be involve in this issues.
Because o f the risk of future staff turnover, these working groups will need to prepare
methodological materials in writing and post them on the LAN, for use by other staff
membersas needed.

Therefore, this component addresses the improvement o f the basic elements o f the
statistical infrastructure:    statistical registers,   sample frames, classifications and
methodologies, statistical computer packages for analysis o f survey data, and GIS for
statistical mapping.

C1. CentralBusinessRegisterof Establishments
The registry of enterprises constitutes the basic instrument for the organization o f
statistical surveys of the economy. Enterprises and individual proprietors are included.
The main source for the updating o f the registry is the legal obligation to register with
GKS (among other agencies) when setting up a new enterprise or establishment. This
registry should be the basis for the systematic monitoring o f response and non-response
for the annual, monthly and quarterly statistical surveys inthe economy.

The improvement o f the registry will be based on:



                                                 37

        A census for updating registry data, which will provide a systematic way to
        identify unregistered unitsthat have been missedinannual updating, to update the
        economic activity o f each unit, and to clarify the activity status o f units that may
        no longer be active.
        A review and, if necessary, upgrading of the methodology for annual updating,
        basedon census findings.
        Installation on a pilot basis o f a new system for updating the registry in one
        oblast, based on the use o f the registry for recording which establishments
        havelhave not responded to each obligatory report and/or survey.
        Linkage o f the registry at Main Computing Center to the databases for various
        establishment surveys that will be created during the project. This would provide
        a basis for non-response adjustment (for the first time) as well as for identification
        o f chronic non-reporting establishments, which could then be systematically
        checked for possible closure.

The business census will check on the activity status and the activity code o f each unit,
and add unregisteredbusinesses. On the basis o f a more systematic procedure for post-
census updating, at least annually if not more often, it i s expected when the next business
census takes place; it will not require so many corrections to the registry.

The activities proposed under this sub-component will be coordinated with TACIS that
will carry out the following the activities incalendar year 2006.
     0   Assistance in the Inventory o f the present situation concerning the register:
         quality o f the information, inter-departmental coordination within the GKS,
         coordination with other institutions holding administrativeregisters, etc
     0   Elaboration o f a plan for improving the statistical business register
     0   Training on sampling techniques
     0   Assessment o f computer and software needs for the register

C2. Sampling Frames
GKS has virtually no experience with modern sampling methods. When taking a sample
i s needed, the standard method i s to apply a fixed percent - such as 10 percent o f the
population to be surveyed. There i s not yet much understandingo f how to design cost-
effective samples. The main objective i s to develop and maintain an updated National
Master Sample Frames to be usedfor all relevant sample surveys.

During the project, GKS will set up a working group to master sampling skills. Basic
skills would be learned in training sessions with consultants, study tours, and on-the-job
training.   The group would apply the methods to selecting samples in various sectors,
thereby improving their practical understanding o fthe subject.

C3. Statistical Methodologiesand Classifications
Harmonization of national classifications with international standards i s a requirement to
ensure improved quality o f the national statistics system and especially to provide
comparability with international statistics. For example, the national accounts division




                                              38

needs to receive data using the international classifications from other divisions in order
to be able to process the data as requiredby SNA standards.

With external support, GKS adopted a General Classification of Types of Economic
Activities o f Tajikistan harmonized with European standards (NACE). Beginning in
2000, this system was implemented for registry updating. However, the new
classification has not yet been implemented by various divisions that collect data from
enterprises and establishments.

This sub-component will deal with the preparation o f compendiums on statistical
definitions, concepts and methodologies to be compiled on the basis o f best international
standards and manuals and sound international practices applicable to Tajikistan. It also
aims to revise classifications and codes currently in use on the basis o f standardized
international classifications and codes and get them implementedeffectively throughout
the entire statistical system. This will improve the harmonization and consistency among
various data sets as well as international comparability.

The preparations may take a year or two, after which the system would be implemented
across the board, perhaps in 2007. GKS will appoint a working group to supervise the
implementation while acquiring related methodological skills by way o f seminars and on
thejob training.

There will be some activities identifiedby TACIS, which will be undertaken in2006 that
requires close coordination. These activities are:
    0   Presentation of internationally accepted classifications, concepts, structures,
        revisions, problems for its implementationto GKS;
    0   Development o f a program for the introduction o f the above mentioned
        classifications inTajikistan: institutional arrangements, practical implementation;
    0   Assessment o f equipment needs.

C4. Master Questionnaire design
This sub-component will addressthe problems inquestionnaire design will fund
development o f a Master Questionnaire that will cover surveys and censuses inall
sectors.

Many questionnaires were inherited from Soviet times; the majority o f them have been
published in Moscow. When questionnaires are designed, there is no central working
group responsible for standardizing them or ensuringthat they are well designed. A team
will be established to design a Master Questionnaire with modules for all relevant sectors
and to ensure consistency across surveys that will facilitate comprehension, legibility of
answers, ease of editing and ease o f data entry. This will require extensive coordination
betweenthis group and all relevant statistical agencies o fthe national statistical system

C5. Data Dissemination
This sub-component will address the problems in data dissemination. Paying more
attention to dissemination of statistical information i s very important to demonstrate the



                                              39

value o f public statistics and at the same time to contribute to the development o f social,
economical and political life o f the country. It i s necessary to study users' needs
according to discussions with individual focus groups in certain oblasts and the creation
o f one or more users' groups, which gathered periodically to review the demand for data.
GKS will provide easy access to statistics for users, by improving publications and the
web site. Maingoals will be:
    0    To develop efficiently productive system for tables inpublications and web-sites;
    0    To promote wider use o f new, advanced methods of data dissemination through e-
         mail, CD-ROM and web-site;
    0    To provide constant and efficient publication o f general statistics publications,
         including marketing o f these publications;
    0    To improve methodological explanations (meta data) and present it on Internet, in
         publications and on the web site.

C6. GeographicalInformation Systems (GIS)
Recently the GKS completed the development o f the Socio-Economic Atlas o f Tajikistan
funded by DFID that introduced GIS into the statistical system. The aim o f this sub-
component i s to build on and improve the GIS capability. It also aims to increase the use
o f GIS for statistical mapping by areas, as recommended by GDDS, within GKS as well
as other line ministries for population, poverty, health, education, crime, police and labor
statistics. Work on the extension o f the socio-economic atlas o f Tajikistan will be falling
into a number o f distinct but inter-related areas:
         Improving the accessibility (and thus the ability to analyze) census data
    0    Extending the range o f indicators
    0    Development o f an interactive atlas
    0    Multivariate spatial analysis

C7. Seasonal adjustment
Although long monthly time series are available for some variables, GKS has no
experience with seasonal adjustment.          Seasonal adjustment i s greatly needed for
production and prices o f fresh produce, which vary sharply by season.             Seasonal
adjustment i s especially needed to prepare data for use inquarterly national accounts. To
improve the underlying sub-annual data, GKS needs to convert all sub-annual data
preparation to discrete periods (months, quarters) instead o f publishing cumulative
estimates, as has often beenthe case.

A working group is also needed to learn new methods. Two visits by an international
consultant are plannedto introduce seasonal adjustment software and to train the working
group in its use. The second visit would take place 12 or more months after the first, to
enable the consultant to address problems rose by staff after a year o f experience in the
use o f the program.

D.DataDevelopment:$1,290,000
This component will support the adaptation of internationally accepted standards and
methodologies in data collection, compilation, and validation.by GKS and other relevant
agencies. It will also support further development o f sectoral statistics on issues such as


                                              40

national accounts, price statistics, vital registration, health, education, poverty and living
standards, employment, public finance, agriculture and transportation.

D1.Data quality
GKS has very little experience in dealing with data quality issues. No attention has yet
been paid to the problem o f non-response and how to adjust for it. Validation procedures
are minimal and rudimentary. The creation o f databases in place o f stepwise summaries
will open new possibilities for evaluating and upgrading data quality in the following
ways:
    0   Validation o f the data during data entry. This will require the preparation and
        adjustment o f validation rules to catch outliers while not imposing an excessive
        burden on rayon staff. Written instructions will also be needed for each survey to
        guide survey workers as far as how to manage outliers - and what to do ifthe data
        still fails the validation test after checking with the respondent.
    0   Non-response adjustment. GKS has never even systematically measured non-
        response; much less adjusted the data for non-response.
    0   Preparation o f technical notes for each data series, describing methods and
        documenting quality issues like non-response adjustment.

A basic problem inhibiting improvements indata quality is that the field staff is still very
close to the administrative functions o f local government, as a result o f which they find it
difficult to separate their own statistical duties from the administrative duties o f general
government. To deal with this problem, GKS will need to provide training and guidance
to local officials.

D2. Data capture, validation, processingand documentation, and storage
This sub-component will address the problems indata capture, validation, processing and
documentation, and storage.

The present system for data captures also dates from the Soviet period. Few data are
entered into databases; most are summarized at rayon and oblast levels, so that data for
individual respondents never reaches the central office.           This urgently needs to be
converted to a database standard, with data for individual respondents entered in the
rayon. As this i s accomplished, links needto be developed at the central office between
each database and the registry. MCC will select one or several databases for a pilot test of
data entry in the rayon, ones that lendthemselves to validation and perhaps ones that do
not include much data from remote rayon. Standardization inthe use o f databases for data
entry would make it easier for programmers to exchange knowledge. Inthe long run,the
capture o f data by means o f databases i s expected to shorten the time lag between data
collection and publication, although in the short run delays may be experienced as staff
learns how to utilize the validation procedures efficiently.

There are several measures that should be taken to improve processing, documentation
and dissemination such as standardizing tools for analysis and tabulations; providing
direct access to databases from the work stations o f all statisticians for analysis and
tabulations; and using a database program resides on the LAN for entering data from



                                                41

various divisions o f GK, and then for automatically producing well-formatted tables and
graphics for the monthly report.

By means of re-engineering, this sub-component will review the current statistical forms
(237) with a view to reducing the number o f forms, prior to making progress in
automating the work. It will also aim to support increased data entry o f forms at oblasts.

D3. System of National Accounts
This sub-component will aim to produce national accounts that are timely, reliable and in
line with internationally accepted methodologies. The proposed actions are:
       Upgrading the classification system in close coordination with sub-component
        c3;
        Computerizationo fNA compilation;
        Preparation o f quarterly national accounts (QNA), using both production and
        expenditure approaches, incurrent and constant prices, with and without seasonal
        adjustment;
        Improvement o f the coordination with balance o f payments (BOP)
        Improvement o f the assessment o f gross national income (GNI), including labour
        migration and remittances;
        Introduction o f commodity-flow techniques
        Improvement o f constant-price estimation, particularly for gross domestic product
        (GDP) by expenditure
        Preparation o f the first input-output (IO) table a step that will only be feasible
        once GKS has implemented international classifications for activities and
        commodities;
        Preparation o f a work plan for the creation o f GDP measures at the oblast level,
        including a list o f data requirements

D4.Non-observed economy
This sub-component will support activities that will improve methodologies and
estimations for the non-observed economy, including illegal economic activity.

Inthis area a special survey will be conducted. Itshould benotedthat the Government of
Tajikistan by its Resolution#37 as o f January 31,2004 (section 19) instructed the GKS in
collaboration with the Ministry o f Economy and Trade, the Ministry o f Finance, the
Ministry o f State Revenues and Duties, and other relevant agencies to address the issue o f
estimating non-observed economy and to take measures to produce comprehensive data
for the non-observed economy. To comply with this on June 30, 2004, the Goscomstat
held a meeting attended by the representatives o f the above ministries including the
Ministry o f Interior. The GKS has already received comments from a number o f
ministries and other agencies confirming their support o f the idea to conduct the survey
proposed by GKS. A survey will be conducted to estimate the level o f non-observed
economy including the volume o f retail trade inthe non-organized trade sector.

D5.Price Statistics
The aims ofthis sub-component are:


                                             42

   0   To improve the calculation o f Consumer Price Index, by enlarging the basket of
       goods covered and by upgradingmethodology,
    0  To improve the calculation o f the Producer Price Index by enlarging the basket of
       goods covered and by upgrading methodology;
    0  To use seasonal adjustment for selectedcomponents o fbothindexes
    0  To prepare comparative measures o f living costs under the International
       Comparisons Program (ICP).
    0  To prepare an index o f agricultural prices.

D6. Industrial statistics
Industry accounts for approximately 23 percent o f GDP. Thus there i s urgent need to
carry out a census for benchmarking industrial output and updating the data used for
revising quantum indices o fproduction. The objectives ofthis sub-component are:
   0   to implementthe Tajikistan adaptation o fthe NACE classification systemfor
       economic activities and a consistent system for commodities, which will serve as
       a basis for the development o f the main indicators inIndustryStatistics;
    0  to improve monthly calculations o f the Index o f Industrial Productionwith value
       added weights, methodological upgrading, and seasonal adjustments;
    0  to implement on a sample basis surveys on small industrial enterprises,
       particularly informal producing simple commodities likebread and vegetable oil.

This sub-component will also support an industrial census to provide baseline data on
Industrial Structure and to provide key macro economic indicators like GDP, output,
capacity utilisation o f industrial sector.

D7. Investment and construction statistics
The aim is to improve the systemo f indicators and statistical surveys, and especially:
   0   to improve methodology for construction investmentsdata following international
       norms and standards;
    0  to conduct a survey on investments in construction including foreign investments,
       private companies and individuals;
   0   to develop methodology for estimating investments in construction by economic
       sector;
   0   To develop a workable price index for construction (this activity i s planned to be
       included inthe TACIS statistics 9 and will be closely coordinated)

D8. Domestic Trade Statistics on Goods and Services trade statistics
The mainobjective o fthis sub-component will be:
   0   To survey expendituresby traders (upto now, only sales measured)
   0   To carry out a survey o f energy use by establishments.

D.9. External Trade Statistics on Goods and Services trade statistics
   0   To develop quarterly unit-price indexes for exports and imports and quarterly
       constant prices measures o f imports and exports;




                                            43

     0  To develop a more comprehensive database for imported and exported goods
         including data on the values, number or volume o f units.

D10.InformationCommunicationand TransportationStatistics
Given the privatization o f transportation facilities, which was previously under the
jurisdiction o f the Ministry o f Transportation. In 2005 there i s only a small portion o f
those under the Ministry. The problem here i s that private transportation services are no
not covered by official statistics.

Transportation sector has traditionally received little attention inthe area o f statistics.
This sub-component provides support to GKS and Ministry of Transportationand will
redress this data gap through:
             implementation o f surveys on the use o f road freight vehicles and on
             passengertransport, its costs and prices;
             updating o f the central database for automobiles and roadtraffic;
             development o f a methodology o f the collection o f traffic accident data;
             carrying out a survey o f automobile owners to capture the informal provision
             o f transportation services;
             Conducting surveys on users o f transportation services to capture the
             expendituresfor services providedby the informal economy;
             Conducting comprehensive survey throughout the country covering a large
             number ofprivate entrepreneurs; (Note: a pilot survey is includedinthe
             TACIS program (statistics 8)
             Further activities incollaborationwiththe Ministry oftransport to introduce
             waybills and to analyzing themto obtain reliable statistical data

The telecommunications sector is one of the important and growing segments o f the
economy and covers a large portion o f the national infrastructure. Currently the market
for telecommunication services i s inthe making and a number o f operators are already in
place. These recent developments require development o f proper methodologies for
statistical data collection and further improvement o f existing reporting system covering
all internationally accepted indicators. Some o fthe activities are:
     0   Conducting a sample survey on IT usedby the population.
        Maintaining data collection from legal entities by using the following reports
        developed incollaboration with the Ministry o f Telecommunications
             o Report on Information and Telecommunication Technologies and the Use
                  o f those inDifferent Sectors;
             o Report o f Licensed Operators Providing Telecommunication Services.

D11.Environmentalstatistics
The main goal i s to establish a plan for developing environmental statistics based on a
study o f user requirements and existing methodologies and data sources. Some specific
activities will include:
        to revitalize and continue maintaining the Water Cadastre (The cadastre has not
        beenmaintained since 1999 due to financial constraints);
     0  to develop classification for waste to obtain waste data;


                                               44

    0   to develop unifiedreporting format on environmental protection investments.

D12.AgricultureStatistics
Agriculture accounts for a high proportion o f the Tajikistan economy. Consequently,
producing reliable and timely agricultural statistics becomes critical for policy making
and compiling other statistics such as national accounts. The current program o f data
collection for agriculture i s based on questionnaires from Soviet times for collective
farms, and has not yet beenreoriented toward individual farmers. The National Economic
Development Program o f Tajikistan (for the period though 2015) emphasizes that
statistical data on the size o f agricultural lands i s not accurate. So the main task i s to
rationalize the program o f surveys by eliminating unnecessary questions and forms and
developing new forms that are more suitable for individual farmers.

This sub-component will strengthen agricultural statistics through:
        revision o f the survey methodology including use o f an updated sampling frame
        and developing the Agricultural Survey into an instrument enabling harvest
        forecast, estimation o f inventory and post-harvest production;
        carrying out a sample survey o f the 18,000 registered farmers (with permanent
        workers), now covered by an obligatory report;
        development o f a manual o f general methodology that describes survey design,
        data collection and analysis o f results;
        reorganizationo f data collection aiming to reduce operation costs;
        improvement o f data processing by developing a manual describing data-entry,
        data-cleaning, andtabulation methods and procedures;
        improve the sample surveys on small unregistered producers in agriculture,
        especially by redesigning the sample, now excessively large (75,000), and by
        reviewingthe questionnaire;
        archiving o f data to disseminate and publishresults; and
        applying seasonal adjustments to quarterly and monthly production data.

The privatization and restructuring o f state owned farms is about to be completed. After
the restructuring process finalized, this sub-component will also support the preparation
o f an agricultural survey to be conducted later when funding would be available.

TACIS has identified a number o f specific activities to be carried out in2006, which will
require close coordination. Where possible, activities should be undertaken in sequence
to maximize the number o f activities possible. TACIS activities are:
        Assessment o f needs for data inagriculture;
    0   Assessment o f existing sources (administrative and statistical) for the Agricultural
        Register;
    0   Creation o fthe basis o f an Agricultural Register, following international standards;
    0   Development o f methodologies for agricultural surveying;
    0   Designo f a system o f surveys inagriculture;
    0   Preparation o f pilot surveys inselected areas.




                                              45

Further, FA0 and EU Food Security Program will also conduct a food security study in
coordinationwith both the presentproject and TACIS activities.

D13.DemographicStatistics
The objective o f this sub-component i s to provide support to improve the quality o f vital
registration and statistics, especially at the municipality level. The Vital Registration
Offices at the local level report to local executive bodies rather than to the Ministry of
Justice. The latter provides methodological support through the General Vital Register
Office (GVRO), which reports to the Ministry. The project will also support a
promotional campaign to encourage vital registration inareas where registration rates are
low. It will also support:
     0   To master the methodology for measuring infant and maternal mortality by way
         o f household interviews, and to test out the chosen method ina single rayon;
     0   To carry out a nationwide survey o f infant and maternal mortality in a sample o f
         rayon based on the method tested in the pilots. Results to be used for adjusting
         administrative measures o f mortality demonstrate that data on infant mortality i s
         underestimated.

This sub-component will provide support to the GVRO in terms o f expertise and
equipment.To strengthen the VROs and GVRO which are vital registration bodies and
therefore directly deal with statistics the following i s needed:

         strengthen capacity o f VROs and Jamoat staff by conducting a number o f on-site
         seminars with the involvement o f the GVRO staff to provide assistance to local
         level offices;
         equip 68 VROs, the GVRO and Jamoats (if possible) with computers, copying
         machines, and typewriters;
         conduct a 2-day seminar with involvement of the bodies dealing with statistical
         data (Ministry o f Justice, Ministry o f Health and GKS) to identify single policy to
         address current issues to allow for producing reliable statistical data;
         assist in developing laws and regulations in statistics and vital and mortality
         registration to consequently publish them as a collected book in Russian, Tajik
         and English, and disseminate them among the parties concerned;
         arrange a study tour for the staff o f GVRO and GKS to the neighboring countries;
         to provide support to the Institute o f Professional Development for Law Officers
         under the Ministry through training courses for the staff o f vital registration
         offices;
         support activities o f the republican archival depository o f the GVRO; provide
         GKS with special equipment to speed up processing of the data provided by the
         VROs.

D14.2010Censusof Population
This sub-component will focus nthe main preparatory tasks identifiedin the framework
o f the run-upto the 2010 Census and will address the following tasks:
     0   Develop a work plan for census preparations that takes account o f new
         technologies especially for data capture and the production o f census maps.


                                                46

    0    Develop a specific plan for the IT side o fthe census.
    0    Provide equipment, software and training for the preparation o f census maps
         usingthe Global Positioning System (GPS) and a Geographic Information System
         (GIs).
    0    Provide equipment and training for experimental data entry by use o f a scanner
         and OCR during the pilot census, to test feasibility for full census.
    0    Support the preparation o f tabulation routines for producing tables for the country
         and for regions ina suitable program such as CS Pro.

D15.Labor Force Statistics
This sub-component provides support to:
         improve data quality through technical assistance to increase the observance o f
         I L O recommendations and to preparedocumentations o f methodologies for labor
         market statistics and;
         Reorganize and strengthenthe institutional data collection system (surveysto
         collect employment, informal sector employment, and unemployment and
         external labor migration statistics).
         To continue the Labor Force Survey (LFS) for the four quarters o f 2006, as a
         follow up to the first such survey in 2004 (it i s anticipated that routine
         Government funding would become available for continuing the survey after
         2005);
         To establish a new sample frame for the current LFS;
         To use the data to analyze labor migration outside Tajikistan and to prepare
         measurements o f time spent ininformal economic activity.

D16.Social Statistics, Poverty and living conditions monitoring statistics
This sub-component attempts to reduce the information gap in poverty and social
statistics by conducting a household survey and promote the use o f collected information
by improving data access and the analytical capacity o f data producers. Planned activities
include:
    0    implementation o f a national Integrated Survey, representative at the regional
         level, containing modules on household characteristics, employment, education,
         utilization of social services, housing conditions, consumption, and expenditure;
    0    carrying out analysis on survey results to provide a general patterno f food and
         non-food consumption and expenditures;
    0    carrying out specific analyses on poverty (quantitative and qualitative
         determinants o f poverty, poverty mapping, poverty line, incidence and depth o f
         poverty by geographic area, poverty characteristics), employment by occupation
         and geographical location, education (access and expenditure), demography
         (updating o fpopulation and demographic parameters), nutrition and diet
         (nutritional study and diet pattern), consumption (budgetary elasticity and
         coefficient);
    0    collecting data on orphans and children without parents' custodial care and
         developing a consolidated reporting process for this purpose; and
    0    development o f a database for dissemination.



                                               47

A Table for Social statistics containing key social and poverty monitoring indicators and
concise analysis on the development o f indicators will be created and publishedannually
by GKS. The purpose o f this sub-component i s to give a tool for monitoring social
indicators through time, but it will also allow determining data needs and weakness that
would inturn help determinea data collection program.

D17.Education Statistics
This sub-component aims to increase the availability o f education data required inPRSP
and MDG monitoring. The project will provide support to GKS and the Ministry o f
Education:
    0   technical assistance to identify data needs and improve data collection methods;
        and
    0   IT equipment to enable efficient data processing and electronic data
        dissemination.

The main task will be to adapt and implementthe International Standard Classification of
Education (ISCE). An inter-agency working group will be set up with the Ministries of
Labor and o f Education, and other interested agencies. A national version o f ISCE would
beprepared and implementedby common agreement.

D18.Health statistics
This sub-component will foster the national health information system administered by
the Ministry o f Health and ensure the availability o f health information necessary for
policy formulation, planning and evaluation of health programs and services as well as
for monitoring PRSP and MDGs. The project will support:
    0   modernization o f the IT infrastructure;
        improvement o f data collection methodologies and operations at various data
        production levels;
    0   update the classifications that will be in line with internationally accepted norms
        and standards; and
    0   regular dissemination o f health data inpublications.
D19.Gender statistics
This project will support the development o f gender statistics to reflect women's and
men's situation in all social and economic spheres. Over the last years statistical data
reflecting gender equality has been in greater demand; the number o f the data users has
increased. Currently data on social statistics are not broken up by sex. This project will
emphasize distinguishingall relevant social statistics by sex.

D20.Financial Statistics
This sub-component aims to provide support to GKS and National Bank o f Tajikistan in
the following activities that are consistent with the national policy on financial sector
development and reforms.
    0   To develop methodology for the estimation o f cash income and expenses o fthe
        populationbased on the international standards and best practices;
    0   To revise all current forms for statistical reporting on the finance o f enterprises
        and institutions given the process o f switching to the International Financial


                                              48

        Reporting Standards based financial reportingto meet the NAS requirementsand
        to comply with the international practices;
    0   Integrated Database on Macro-economic and Financial statistics at the National
        Bank o f Tajikistan;
    0   Private debt statistics

D21. GovernmentFinanceand PublicDebt Statistics
This sub-component aims to improve the coverage, timeliness and quality of local
government expenditure statistics within the Financial Management System to provide
data for fiscal monitoring.

E.PhysicalInfrastructure and Equipment: $1,725,000
This sub-component will support upgrading existing information technology (IT),
transportation and other equipment that is essential to carry out existing and project
activities. Equipment to be financed includes transportation vehicles, computers and
networking equipment, IT accessories, survey equipment and accessories, and office
furniture and suppliesusedby GKS as well as line ministries.

El,Developmentof ComputerizationPlan
This sub-component will support the development o f a detailed computerization planfor
the national statistical systemthat will address a thorough upgrading of the IT solutions
and I T competences in all data producing agencies including the GKS (headquarters, and
district offices), statistical units in line ministries and statistical units in state-owned
enterprises.

E2.Transport Equipment:
The project is expected to make provisions for a number o furgently and critically needed
newmotor vehicles and other transport equipmentparticularly for rayons that do not have
vehicles at present. Only about half the rayon offices at present have vehicles. In rural
areas, public transport i s minimal or absent. Giventhe scope o f the GKS work and other
survey activities in the pipeline as well as the high maintenance cost o f the existing
transportation vehicles, procurement o f new vehicles i s urgently needed.

E3. Office and Survey Equipment
Good infrastructure and equipment are essential for effective delivery o f statistical
products and services inthe national statistical system. Indeed, one o f the weaknesses o f
the national statistical system is that the statistical infrastructure i s weak and the
equipment is inadequate.       This component of the project will assist to rebuild the
infrastructure and to equip data producing-agencies to a level where they can be able to
produce good data efficiently and ina sustainable manner.

E4.InformationTechnology
This component will support GKS's strategic goal o f improving data survey
development, data gathering, data analysis, and data dissemination processes through the
use of information technology. In most agencies that collect, process and store data, IT
infrastructure (hardware, software, networking and peripheral equipment) are outdated



                                             49

and will need to be replaced. The objectives o f Bank support will be to support GKS in:
developing a detailed program for improving the IT infrastructure, ensuring improved
efficiency and quality o f statistical processing, accessibility and availability o f databases
for handling the preparation o f tables; providing a major upgrading o f the IT
infrastructure for data collection, processing, storage and transfer o f raw data, combined
with increased skills in the use of IT tools throughout the organization; putting inplace
adequate mechanisms for data protection and backup o f data; and organizing training
courses both for IT specialists and non-IT specialists.

A thorough upgrading of the I T infrastructure and I T competences is needed to improve
efficiency and ensure staff learn the new technologies and adapt to the new methods.
Several investmentsin IT, licensed software, and technical assistance will be provided to
data producing agencies including the GKS (headquarters, and district offices), statistical
unitsinline ministriesand statistical unitsinstate-owned enterprises. The procurement of
equipmentwill include:
    0   high performance servers to support the data processing processes and provide
        additional data storage capacity;
    0   installation o f a local area network (LAN) at headquarters, workstations, printers
        and related peripheral equipment, internet switch, UPS and spare parts;
    0   installation o f LANs inoblast offices, UPS, and disk backup media;
    0   upgraded methods for faster and more reliable data transfer and communication
        between the central and regional offices, where feasible by email connection, and
        otherwise by fax, C D and diskette;
    0   provision o f new software systems and limited custom application software; and
    0   modern printing equipment, including risographs and sheet cutters for the oblasts
        and MCC;

Technical assistance i s essential to help develop a Computerization Plan that will meet
both planning requirements for IT investmentsand become an instrument that will guide
GKS in ensuring that the core system allows for expansion, accommodates development
and implementation o f other Government databases, networks, architecture (e.g., under
the Public Sector Reform Program), and can be monitored for cost and schedule
variances. Separate TA will develop a specific plan for the IT census (D14). Limited
application development programming support will also be provided to assist in
customizing tables and reports.

The lack o f high-levelITpersonnel (due to weak staff motivation) is causing problems in
the development and maintenance o f IT at the MCC. With the transition to new systems
for data collection, processing and dissemination there i s a strong need for training o f all
staff. A training program will be implemented to provide end users, program engineers
and electronic engineers with a minimum o f two-weeks o ftraining andthereafter on an as
needed basis within the timeframe o f the project. Courses will enable staff to install,
manage access and data used on LANs, implement security measures, transfer and
migrate data into databases, and perform routine data administration tasks. Part o f this
program will include training trainers at central and oblast levels to conduct follow-on
training.



                                              50

F.ProjectManagement:$250,000
GKS will be the main executing agency of the project and will be responsible for its
management. To effectively carry out the implementation and daily project
administrative work, a project coordinator who i s an expert in project management, a
financial management specialist, a procurement specialist and an assistant will be hired
by the executing agency. Specifically, this unit will coordinate project activities, manage
reporting and auditing activities and ensure compliance with the procurement,
disbursement and financial management policies and procedures.

The project will support:
    0    salaries for the unit;
    0    consultants services for monitoring and evaluation studies, audits, project reviews
         and the production o f the Procedure and Project Implementation Manuals;
    0    furniture and equipment for the unit.




                                             51

                                  Annex 5: Project Costs
             TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem

                                                     Local         Foreign            Total
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity        .    US              us               us
                                                  $million         $million          $million
InstitutionalDevelopment                                              0.180            0.180
Human Resource Development                                            0.530            0.530
Development o f Statistical Infrastructure                             1.040           1.040
Data Development                                                       1.290           1.290
Physical Infrastructure and Equipment                  0.405           1.320           1.725
Project Management                                     0.250                           0.250

Total Baseline Cost                                    0.655          4.360            5.015
  Contingencies                                                       0.055            0.055
                            Total Proiect Costs'       0.655          4.415            5.070
                     Total Financing Required          0.655          4.415            5.070



'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$0.085 million and the total project cost, net of
taxes, i s US$4.985 million. Therefore, the share o f project cost net o f taxes i s 98%.




                                            52

                        Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
             TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem


Taking into account o f the fact that the project i s aimed at improving the statistical
system o f the country it will be required to ensure appropriate level o f commitment and
support o f various government agencies and ministries. In order to ensure this a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) will be established by the Government. The PSC will include
the Presidential State Advisor on Economic Policy (chairman), the Chairman of GKS,
Deputy Ministers from Ministryo f Finance and Ministry o f Justice who are familiar with
the project and the Head o f ACU. The PSC will meet twice a year to perform the
following key functions:
    ..
    I   Ensureefficient interdepartmental (inter-ministerial) interaction and resolve
        interdepartmental (inter-ministerial) issues;
        Endorse project implementationplans;
        Exercise monitoring and evaluation o f project progress on a bi-annual basis;
        On annual basis report to the Government on project implementation status and, if
        necessary propose improvements.

GKS will be the main executing agency of the project and will be responsible for its
overall management and implementation. To effectively carry out the implementation
and daily project administrative work, there will be a Project Coordination Team (PCT)
o f up to 5 persons. A project coordinator who i s an expert in project management, a
financial management specialist, a procurement specialist and an assistant (probably a
driver, too) will be hired by the GKS. Specifically, this unit will coordinate day-to-day
project activities, manage reporting and auditing activities and ensure compliance with
the procurement, disbursement and financial management policies and procedures. PCT
will report to the chairman o f GKS or other delegated person and will fulfill the
following key functions:

        a. Interact withthe Bank and other donors;
        b. Interact with relevant government bodies at central and local levels on project
            implementation issues;
        c. Interact with relevant GKS departments both at the central and local levels on
           project and MISP implementation issues;
        d. Manage a program of monitoring and evaluationfor the project;
        e. Prepare draft progress reports for review and finalization by the GKS and
           further submissionto the Project Steering Committee;
        f. Ensurecommunicationandpublicationoftheprojectresults, inparticularat
           the GKS web-site.

All other aspects o f the project would be implemented by relevant GKS staff with the
assistance o f local and international consultants. Please also refer to Figure 1 below for
project implementation arrangements.




                                             53

It is the Bank's policy to gradually discontinue the use of stand-alone entities created for
the purposes of project implementation. This policy has found its full reflection and
support during the last CPPR conducted jointly with the Government, the Bank and
ADB. After internal consultations and discussions with GKS and the Government it was
agreed to use the previous implementation set-up utilized by the Strengthening the
National Statistical System project funded by a TFSCB grant. Given the good
implementation capacity experienced during the previous project and high commitment
of GKS, it will be possible to effectively carry out the implementation and daily project
administrative work.

A project implementation manual will be prepared to set the framework of rules by which
the project coordination team will manage the project, under the World Bank regulations
for financial management and procurement. The manual will also include written job
descriptions for each member o f the team that clearly define responsibilities, lines o f
supervision, and limits o f authority. An appropriate training program which will include
World Bank financial and procurement management procedures will be designedfor staff
and will start prior to project effectiveness to ensure that the project team i s active and
ready to operate at project effectiveness. The allocation o f responsibilities should enable
the appropriate separation of duties to ensure proper accountability. The team will
produce all necessary reports on financial and procurement activities as requested by the
World Bank and described inthe manual o fprocedures.

The project will support salaries for the unit; consultants services for monitoring and
evaluation studies, audits, project reviews and the production o f the Procedure and
Project Implementation Manuals; and furniture and equipmentfor the unit.

                        Figure 1. Proposed Implementation Set-Up.




                                Project Steering Committee

                                                            I




                                              54

          Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
             TAJIKISTAN: Strengthening the National Statistical System

1.      Executive Summary.

In December 2005 financial management arrangements for the proposed Strengthening
the National Statistical System Project were assessed to determine whether the financial
management capacity o f the implementing agency, State Statistics Committee (SSC-
GKS), are acceptable to the Bank. The assessment also evaluated GKS financial
management system (FMS) in terms o f its readiness for the implementation o f the
proposed project. These financial management arrangements include systems o f
budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, auditing, and internal controls. GKS will have
a computerized accounting system in place before the Bank approval o f the proposed
project. Chief Accountant o f the GKS will take overall responsibility over proposed
project Financial Management arrangements. However, GKS will hire a financial
management specialist who will be responsible for the project related technical financial
issues. Terms o f reference for the consultant will be developed by the GKS and agreed
with World Bank before launching the recruitment process. Terms o f reference for the
consultant will be developed by the GKS and agreed with World Bank before launching
the recruitment process.

Conclusion. Although GKS has reliable accounting system operating according to local
accounting and legislation requirements, further actions are needed for the financial
management arrangements to fully meet the requirements o f the World Bank. The
operating manual documenting the financial procedures should be developed in
accordance with World Bank guidelinesand a computerized accounting system should be
installed and implemented to facilitate project financial management process. A financial
management action plan has been discussed with the Borrower, and will be finalized
before negotiations for establishment o f a financial management system that meets
requirementso fthe World Bank.

Taking into consideration the assessment o f the financial management systems and
processes and the assessment o f risks and mitigating measures, the financial management
arrangements for the proposed Strengthening National Statistics System Project, when
fully implemented, will be capable o f satisfactorily recording all transactions and
balances, supporting the preparation o f regular and reliable financial statements,
safeguarding the GKS assets, and are subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the
Bank.

A detailed financial management assessmentquestionnaire is included inthe project files.
A summaryofthe ratings is as follows:




                                            55

             SummaryTable: FinancialManagementAssessment and Conclusions.

 Financial        Rating                        CommentdRiskMitigation measures.
 Management
 Assessment
1. Implementing    M       GKS has satisfactorily implementedthe Capacity Building Trust Fundgrant.
Entity                     Existing strict controls by the Governmentagencies over the activities of the
                           Committee and relatively responsiblemanagementofthe GKS minimizesthe
                           risk associatedwith entity.
2. Flow of Funds    S      The funds flow arrangementsare initially plannedto follow transaction-
                           baseddisbursement procedures, with Designatedaccounts held by GKS on
                         IbehalfChairmanand
                                   of Ministry of Finance.Withdrawal applications are to be signedby
                           GKS                  Chief Accountant.
3. Staffmg         M     (Financefunction consists of 9 employees- ChiefAccountant (CA) and two
                           deputy CAS,6 ordinary accountants. Though ChiefAccountant will assume
                           overall responsibility over financial arrangementsof the project, one
                           consultantwill be hiredto assist Finance department inmanagingProject
                           relatedspecific issues.
4. Accounting       S      GKS does not have formal accountingpolicies andproceduresmanual.
Policies and               However, instructionsof the Ministry of Financeare usedas abasis for day-
Procedures                 to-day financial operationsrecording. Detailed OperationalManual
                           (including description of the F M issues) should be developed in order to
                           improve the internal control environmentof the project.
5. Internal Audit  N A     There is no InternalAudit function.
6. External Audit  M       ProjectAudit will be part of the block audit which is organizedby ACU. The
                           block audit results were satisfactory except few insignificant issues with few
                         projects.
7. Reporting and    S      Regular Financial reports, including Balance Sheet, plannedand actual
Monitoring                 spendinganalysis are submittedto Governmentagencies. FMR formats
                           acceptable to World Bank will be generatedusing automatedaccounting
                           system. Project accountingrecordsfor interim period, from project
                           effectivenessuntil completion of accountingsoftware installation and
                           customization,will be maintained inExcel spreadsheets as very few
                           activities will be undertakenduring that period. Accounting recordsfor
                         Iinterim  period will be re-enteredinto system after completion of the
                           computerization,
8. Information      S    I Accounting   Records, basedon Tajik Standards of Accounting and
Systems                   Instructions of Ministry of Finance are maintainedmanually with limiteduse
                           of excel spreadsheets. Chief Accountant andFinancial Management
                           Specialistcheck all transactionspreparedby accountantsbefore they posted
                          to GL, which minimizes the risk ofmanual record keeping.
 Overall            S     Action Plan for implementation ofthe remaining actionsrequired to ensure
 Financial                establishmentof fmancial management system acceptable to the Bank has
 Management               been preparedandwill be discussedand agreedwith the borrower during
 Rating                   negotiations
Legend: H-High         S - Substantial M-Moderate           L Low N/A-Not applicable
                                                               -

2.       Assessment of current Financial Management arrangements of the GKS.
The GKS is an independent government agency responsible for state statistics and
reporting to the Government of Tajikistan. GKS i s headed by the chairman appointed by
the Government. GKS consists of two major departments: the Statistics Department and
the Main Computing Center, heads o f which report directly to GKS chairman.



                                                  56

Current accounting system o f the GKS i s maintained inaccordance with local accounting
regulations and legislation documents. The following are main characteristics o f the GKS
accounting function:

    0   Accounting records are maintainedmanually with limiteduse o f Excel
        spreadsheets.
    0   There are no formal accounting policies andprocedure manual. Ministry o f
        Finance instructions and other financial legislation documents are usedas a base
        for recordkeepingand reporting o f GKS financial activities.
    0   Standard quarterly and annual financial reports are submittedto the relevant
        Government agencies. There i s limiteduse o f financial data by GKS management
        for day-to-day management o f GKS activities.
    0   Financial statements o f GKS are audited by State Financial Control Committee
        (SFCC) every two years. Audit reports prepared by SFCC are not reliable because
        o f its low capacity.
    0   Chief accountant's experience with Bank financed projects i s limitedto overall
        supervision o f previous grant financial management aspects with finance
        consultant who left the project after its closure in2005.

3.      ImplementationArrangements.

GKS will be the main executing agency of the project and will be responsible for its
overall management and implementation. To effectively carry out the implementation
and daily project-related administrative work, there will be a project coordination team o f
up to 5 persons: a project coordinator, who is an expert in project management, a
financial management specialist, a procurement specialist and an assistant (probably a
driver, too) will be hired by GKS. Specifically, this unit will coordinate project activities,
manage reporting and auditing activities and ensure compliance with the procurement,
disbursementand financial management policies and procedures. All other aspects of the
project would be implemented by relevant GKS staff with the assistance o f local and
international consultants.

The GKS will be responsible for (i)developing and updating the consolidated Project
Implementation Plan, (ii)    ensuring that project activities are implemented according to
the legal documents, procurement plan and Project Operations Manual, (iii)      reporting on
project progress to the Government and the World Bank, (iv) ensuring that procurement
of goods and services i s done in a timely manner and in accordance with World Bank
guidelines, (v) managing project funds and maintaining accounts, including the
Designated accounts, (vi) getting the accounts audited, (vii) ensuring adequate budget
provisions for the project, (viii) facilitating the work o f consultants, and reviewing their
outputs.

4.      Strengths and Weaknesses.

Although GKS was an implementingagency for previous small capacity building grant, it
does not have experience in implementing comprehensive World Bank projects with
significant financial resources involved. Therefore, relevant GKS staff will require


                                              57

considerable training and guidance during the initial phase o f the project implementation.
A full time project FM specialist will behiredfor the duration ofthe project to help GKS
staff managing project related financial activities. It i s expected that successful
implementation of the financial management action plan will ensure establishment o f
financial management arrangements that satisfy Bank requirements.

5.       CountryIssuesand linkageto the current project

Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Tajikistan was completed in
2003. The conclusion o f the CFAA i s that there i s a high risk to public funds due to
extremely weak public sector financial management including budgeting accounting and
auditing. CFAA notes that the system o f public accountability functions poorly and there
i s a lack o f transparency at all levels o f government. While legislative reforms have been
introduced inthe Treasury, budget processes and control agencies are undermineddue to
human and technological capacity constraints. Some o f the main risks include fragmented
budgets, poor cash management and execution control, lack o f transparency in the
operations o f State Owned Enterprises and inadequate checks and balances in the
Executive and Legislature. These risks affect the overall quality and credibility o f
governance inTajikistan.

The implementation environment for the proposed project i s expected to be more reliable
than average due to highly committed management o f GKS and their past experience ina
similar project.

6.       Staffingof the AccountingrninanceFunction

Finance function consists o f nine employees - Chief Accountant, two deputy Chief
Accountants and six ordinary accountants. Three out o f six ordinary accountants are
responsible for payroll calculations and the remaining three are responsible for
accounting o f inventories and FixedAssets. The activities o f accounting function o f GKS
are limited to payroll and inventory accounting, regular reporting to Government
agencies.

Implementation o f accounting software, which i s planned to be completed at the
beginning o f project effectiveness according to initial agreements with GKS, will help to
restructure accounting department that i s highly inefficient due to manual accounting and
duplications. Although Chief Accountant will have overall responsibility over project
financial management arrangements, including financial reporting, a FM specialist will
be hired during project preparation period. The financial management specialist will be
responsible for technical aspects o f the project implementation, including preparation o f
withdrawal applications, maintaining project records inthe system, preparationo f various
reconciliations under the supervision o f the Project Director who will be Chairman o f
GKS.




                                                58

Operational Manual to be developed for the Project will clearly define the roles and
responsibilities o f each individual, including GKS permanent and temporary staff
involved inthe project implementation

7.      Accountingpolicies and procedures.

The GKS will develop a Project Operational Manual which will include the financial
procedures, key internal control mechanisms to be followed by the GKS in the
application and use o f funds. The manual reflects the structure as well as the flow of
funds to support project activities. Accounts and records for the project will be
maintained by the GKS which will operate and maintain a financial management system
(FMS) capable of generating Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) in accordance with
formats to be agreed with the World Bank. The Chief Accountant will be responsible for
overall project financial management, maintenance o f books and accounts for the project,
preparation and dissemination o f financial statements and FMR, and timely audits o f the
project. The GKS will generate and maintain accounting vouchers and supporting
documentation for expenditures on all activities o f the project, and will document the
accounting transaction information flow. Funds will be transferred from the Designated
accounts to pay for eligible expendituresin accordance with instructions contained inthe
Disbursement letter to be issued upon loan approval. The GKS will also maintain
appropriate financial records and reports in accordance with existing government
financial regulations and project specific procedures established in the Project
Implementation Plan.

8.      AuditingArrangements.

Internal audit. There i s no internal audit department within GKS and none i s planned for
the near future.

External audit. GKS Financial Statements have not been audited by independentauditors
except State Financial Control Committee (SFCC) which audits the activities o f GKS
every two years.

Annual audits for the project accounts will be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelinesfor Financial Reporting andAuditing of Projects Financed by the WorldBank
(June 2003). The guidelines require a single audit opinion on the project financial
statements as a whole, which will include the Designated account Statement and the
Statement o f Expenditures used as the basis o f withdrawing funds from the Project
Account. The project will adopt these guidelines and submit a single audit opinion on the
annual project financial statements within six (6) months following the end o f the
projects fiscal year end. Terms o f reference (TORS) for the audit as well as a shortlist o f
audit firms to be invited to tender for the audit contract will be cleared with the Bank
prior to the end o f the fiscal year to be audited.

The external audit will be carried out by independent auditors in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank.



                                                59

The TORSwill stipulate both the audit o f financial transactions and an assessmentof the
operation o f the financial management system (FMS), including a review o f the internal
control mechanisms.

9.     Reportingand Monitoring.

Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR's) will be used for
project monitoring and supervision. The project will prepare and submit Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMR) ina form and frequency agreed with the Bank (sample forms
will be included in the Project Operational Manual). These FMRs will be customized to
reflect the specific characteristics o f the project, including the number o f sources o f
funds, while meeting the Bank's minimum information requirements for the financial
monitoring o f the Project. The FMR will include, but not be limited to: (a) Sources and
Uses o f Funds, (b) Uses o f Funds by Project Activity, (c) Output Monitoring Reports,
(including written summary o f project progress, and explanations for significant budget
variances); and (d) Procurement Reports. The GKS will submit quarterly FMRs for the
Project to the Bank starting with the first quarter ended in which disbursements will
commence and quarterly thereafter, no later than 45 days after the end o f the relevant
quarter. The project accounting software will generate FMRs, incorporating all
components, categories and performance indicators which are acceptable to the World
Bank. Review of actual results against budgets will be a key managerial tool for
monitoringperformance o f the project.

10.     InternalControls

Process o f invoice handling and Payments will be described in detail in the Accounting
and Finance section o f Operational Manual. It should include the following basic invoice
and payment processing steps:

    a)     All project related invoices will be received by Project Coordinator for initial
           review.
    b)     Invoice i s checked and verified for consistency with contract and TOR output
           details by Project Coordinator.
    c)     Invoice i s then sent to Accounting department for processing the payment.
    d)     GKS Chief Accountant checks invoice for consistency with local legislation
           and legal agreements with World Bank and Government.
    e)     Chief Accountant prepares payment order to the Bank where SAs are opened
    f,     Payment order i s signed by GKS Chairman and Chief Accountant.
    g)     Necessary Accounting transactions posted to General Ledger

Fixed Assets register will be developed to keep records o f all assets bought from the
project funds. The following rules will be applied to safeguard the assets:
    0  All FixedAsset Purchase documents, including Contracts, invoices are approved
       by GKS Chairman.
    0  All FixedAssets transfers and Write offs are approved by GKS Chairman.
    0  Regular stock taking by GKS finance team.



                                             60

     0  Scrutinizing fixed asset related transactions by FMS duringFM supervisions.
     0  Regular Reconciliationo f Fixed Assets Register to Trial Balance.

11.     Informationsystems.

The implementation o f Computerized accounting software will be completed and the
system will be inplace before the Bank approval o f the project. Time-bound action plan
has been developed, implementation o f which will be monitored by World Bank staff
closely. Consultancy firm and software selection process will be conducted inaccordance
with World Bank Guidelines and procedures. Selected software system should have
capacity to generate FMRs, annual financial statements and other reports requiredby the
Government.

12.     Impact of procurementarrangements.

The GKS will hire procurement specialist who is experienced with World Bank
guidelines or who will be trained to gain familiarity with the WB procurement guidelines.
The GKS will prepare annual budgets in line with the Procurement Plans, and these
budgets will form the basis for spending and requesting funds for counterpart
contributions, if any. Budgets, prepared in accordance with the FMR format
(disbursement categories, components and activities, financial sources, account codes,
and by quarter), will establish physical targets to ensure linkage between expenditures
and physical progress, and proper comparison betweenactual and budgetedperformance.
A detailed budget for the first full year of project implementation, broken down by
quarter, will be prepared before the loanbecomes effective.

13.     Disbursementsarrangements.

The proceeds o f the grant will be disbursed over a period o f five years, or for such longer
period as will be agreed with the Bank. Grant funds will initially flow to the project via
disbursements to the Designated accounts (DA) opened by the Borrower. Three sources
o f funds - IDA Grant, TF Grant and Government Co-financing - will be used to finance
the project activities. Disbursements will follow the transaction-based method, i.e.
reimbursements with full documentation, Statements o f Expenditure (SOEs), direct
payments and special commitments). Withdrawals from the Loan Account will be
requested in accordance with the guidance provided in the Disbursement Letter.
Withdrawal applications may be signed by an authorized representative o f the Borrower,
and the GKS Chairman. The Chief Accountant will ensure completeness and accuracy o f
all withdrawal applications and will append her/his signature as part o f the internal
control procedures. SOEs would be used for contracts for goods less than US$lOO,OOO,
services for consulting firms less than US$lOO,OOO          and for individuals less than
us$20,000.

No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account for payments made for expenditures
prior to the date o f signature o f this Letter Agreement by the Association, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $50,000, may be made on account o f



                                              61

payments made for for eligible Expenditures under Operating Costs Category before that
date but on or after April 15,2006 .



             Catenow                Amount ofthe GrantAllocated (g % of Expendituresto
                                                 Dollars)                be Financed

(1)   Goods    and    Consultants'
services including training                    [$2,998,000]                 100%



(2) OperatingCosts                              [$90,000]                   100%


TOTAL                                          [$3,088,000]


Allocation o f the proceeds o f the IDA Financing
                                                                      Percentageof
             Category                  Amount o fthe Financing
                                     Allocated (expressed in SDR)   Expenditures to be
                                                                        Financed

(1) Goods, works and
consultants' services for the              [$840,000 equiv.]              100%
Project

(2) Operating Costs                        [$160,000 equiv]               100%

TOTAL AMOUNT                              [$1,000,000 equiv.]



Designated account (DA): To facilitate project implementation, the Recipient will open a
Designated accounts (DA) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, and on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Individual Designated accounts will be opened for
each source o f funds to avoid pooling and related with it complications. IDA will make
an initial deposit to the Designated account upon the request by the Ministry o f Finance
(MOF) after Loan effectiveness. The total Authorized Allocation o f the grant will be
specified in the legal documents. Replenishment o f the Designated account from the
project accounts will be made against withdrawal applications, supported by appropriate
documentation or statements o f expenditure prepared by the GKS, signed by the
authorized officials o f GKS and submittedto the Bank for approval.

14.     FMAction Plan to beagreedwith GKS
Given that the financial management arrangements are currently not fully satisfactory to
the Bank, a draft time-bound action planhas been discussed with GKS and will be agreed
with the Borrower duringnegotiations. Successful implementation of the action plan will
ensure the establishment o f a financial management system that meets requirements o f
the World Bank.




                                               62

                                                     ACTIONPLAN
                                   FINANCIALMANAGEMENTSYSTEM



     Action                                                 Responsibility       Due Date/Remarks


     Financial Management Procedures described in              GKS          RevisedManual should be
     Operating Manual:                                                      ready by Negotiations.
     e   Fully documenting the followingprocedures:
         budgeting, accounting and internal control,
         including description of the accounting system
         and books of accounts, disbursement andflow
         of funds (including chart), financial reporting,
         including FMR, annual reports and audit, job
         descriptionsfor finance staff.
                                                          I
     e   Presentthe final draft Manual to the Bank for
         review.
         Finalize the Manual incorporating Bank
         comments.
     Establish Project Accounting and Financial                 GKS         Inplace before management
     Reporting System                                                       approval.
     e   Develop project accounting system, including
         design of Chart of Accounts, capable of
         generatingFMR.
     e   Provide appropriatetraining to the GKS Chief
         Accountant, deputy Chief Accountants and
         procurementspecialist on application and
         maintenance of the installed system. Test the
         accounting and financial reporting system.
         ProduceDraft FMR, for submissionto the Bank
         for review and comments.                         I

     Recruitment of FM consultant                               GKS         Hired before management
         TOR agreedwith Bank                                                approval.
     e   Transparent Recruitment process has to be
         achieved


        Supervision Plan

The reports o f the progress of the project implementationwill be monitored in detail
during supervisionmissions. The FMRswill be reviewedon a regular basis by the field-
based FMS and the results or issues followed up during supervision missions. Annual
auditedproject financial statements and management letters will be reviewed and issues
identifiedwill be followed up with GKS.

The FMsupervisionmissionswill include a review of the project's financial management
and disbursement arrangements (and may include a review o f a sample of SOEs and
movements on the Designated accounts for each funding source) to ensure compliance
with the Bank'sminimum requirements.It is envisagedthat the FM supervisionmissions
will be carried out every six months.




                                                         63

                           Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
             TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Financing Agreement, the SIDA and
DFID Grant letters.       The various items under different expenditure categories are
described below.       For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different
procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
Recipient and the IDA inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be updated at
least annually or as required to reflect actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

The planned procurement would initially be advertised in a General Procurement Notice,
and Specific Procurement Notices to be issued thereafter as needed. After its clearance,
the IDA will publish the GPN online in the UNDB in the Development Gateway's
dghfarket.The individual SPN for goods and consulting services will be advertised inthe
national newspaper o f wide circulation and GKS external web-site o f free excess the
negotiations. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) for ICB Goods packages and
Expression o f Interest (EOI) for consultant's contracts above US$100,000 equivalent as
well as the results o f the contract awards would be advertise on-line inUNDB, dgMarket
and on the GKS website.

The GKS would follow the World Bank anti-corruption measures and would not engage
services o f firms and individuals debarred by the IDA. The listing o f such debarred firms
and individuals i s located at: http://www. worldbank.orn/htmWopr/procure/debarr.html


Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include: hardware and
software, IT equipment for electronic document system management information centre,
transportation vehicles, and minor furniture items for the implementation unit. For
procurement o f goods under the project, the following methods will be used: ICB,
Shopping and Direct Contracting, whenjustified. The procurement will be done usingthe
Bank's SBDs for all ICB packages. Contracts for goods will be grouped in bid packages
as much as feasible. Detailed equipment packages would be prepared based on the annual
procurement plans.

International CompetitiveBidding (ICB). Goods packages estimated to cost US$100,000
equivalent and above per contract would be procured through ICB. IT equipment and
software would be procured as separate packages and using a single- stage procurement
procedure, because these hardware and software items are basidstandard information
technology goods that do not require critical compatibility characteristics.



                                             64

Shopping: Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract can be
procured under Shopping procedure on the basis o f three written price quotations
obtained from qualified suppliers.Incase o f procurement o f IT hardware and software by
Shopping, when soliciting price quotations, the firms (authorized dealers) inthe country
registered at the Bank's web-site for IT procurement should be solicited in addition to the
other available firms.

Procurement of       Works: only one minor works contract (not exceeding $5,000
equivalent, including the VAT) for renovation o f the office o f the Project Coordination
Team i s planned under the Project with the financing under the Operating costs.
Shopping procedure would apply with three written quotations requested and compared
from at least three qualified contractors. Contract shall be on a lump sum basis for clearly
defined scope of work.

Selection of Consultants: Consulting services from firms and individuals will be
required (both local and international) to assist in implementation o f all project
components. Shortlist o f consulting firms for services estimated to cost less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
accordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Guidelines.

The applicable selection methods will be as follows:

Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method will be a preferred method for a
consulting assignments exceeding $100,000 equivalent per contract. Currently, only one
contract for Twinning Partner i s plannedunder this method;

Consultants QualiJications (CQ) will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent incases when the above method does not apply;

Least Cost Selection (LCS) method will be used for assignment o f standard or routine
nature such as Project audit, etc.

Single Source Selection (SS) may be used in exceptional cases as per provisions of the
Guidelines and with           IDA'Sapproval in all cases and irrespective of the contract
amount.

Contracts with individual consultants (IC) may be used for services where teams of
personnel are not required and where the qualification and experience of the individual
consultant are the paramount requirements. Sole source contracting o f individuals that
may be required for some ad hoc training activities shall be done on prior review basis
irrespective o fthe contract amount.

Training: Training i s an important part o f the project and will include project-related
study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities. It is
planned that all Training will be included in the Twinning Partnership consultant's
contract. However, if during later project implementation there i s a need for additional
training activities outside o f the Twinning Partnership these will be plannedand procured



                                             65

separately. Such costs may include costs o f training materials, space and equipment
rental, travel and per diem costs o f trainees and trainers. Selection o f consultants
(lectures, facilitators, etc) required for preparation and conducting training activities
would follow procedures set up for Selection o f Consultants.

Operating Costs: Operating costs will include equipment for operation and maintenance,
communications (e.g. email, telephone and fax), utilities, and minor office renovation
costs. Operating costs will be incurred according to an annual budget satisfactory to the
IDA andusingprocedures to be described inthe Project Operational Manual.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implementprocurement

An assessment o f the capacity of the GKS to implement procurement actions for the
project has been carried out by the IDA'Sprocurement specialist in December 2005. The
assessment reviewed the possibility o f undertaking o f procurement functions by the
organization being considered to be responsible for project procurement activities.

The GKS will be the main executing agency of the project and will be responsible for its
overall management and implementation. To effectively carry out the implementation
and daily project administrative work, there will be a project coordination team (PCT) o f
up to 5 staff. Specifically, this unit will coordinate project activities, manage reporting
and auditing activities and ensure compliance with the procurement, disbursement and
financial management policies and procedures. A procurement specialist will be hiredby
the GKS to conduct the procurement activities under the project. All other aspects of the
project would be implemented by relevant GKS staff with the assistance o f local and
international consultants.

C. Procurement Considerations

The Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) and the experience o f other IDA-
and IFI-fundedprojects indicate that project procurement could face the following
challenges:

(i)     There is lack of transparency in conducting the procurement in accordance with
        the current procurement regulations which creates possibilities for corruption,
        collusion and fraud;
(ii)    Government officials, who would be involved in project procurement through
        Tender Committees, may not be familiar with procurement procedures;
(iii)   The bureaucratic system creates opportunities for informal interference in the
       procurement process by senior officials;

The following strategy has been devised to mitigate the above project implementation
risks:
    0  To provide higher transparency o f the project implementation it i s recommended
       to publish relevant project implementation data on GKS website - advertisement,
       contract awards, and the progress reports from the implementing entities. All the



                                             66

       consulting contracts costing above US$lOO,OOO,         ICB and N C B contracts for
       goods and services shall be published in the UNDB and DgMarket also in
       accordance with the IDA Guidelines.
    0  Following the project effectiveness, a half day project launch workshop will be
       conducted by IDA staff for the GKS and PCT staff, including representatives of
       other concerned institutions involved inthe project implementation;
    0  For all procurement, the POM, to be adopted by effectiveness, would include
       procurement methods to be used in the project along with their step by step
       explanation as well as the standard sample documents to be used for each method;
    0  GKS would create a data base o f suppliers o f the requiredgoods and consultants
       (firms and individuals). The data base would also include information on current
       prices o f goods. For this purpose, the GKS and PCT Procurement consultant
       would use all available internet resources, including the UNwebsites; and
    0  GKS and the Procurement consultant should be trained on the Bank's
       Procurement procedures during the first year o f implementation.

D. ProcurementPlan

GKS has developed a procurement plan (PP) for project implementationwhich provides
the basis for the procurement methods to be used during project implementation. This
plan will be approved by the Recipient and the IDA Project Team at the negotiations.
The plan will be available in the project's database and on the Bank's external website
when the project becomes effective. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement
with the Project Team annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementation
needs and improvements in institutional capacity. The procurement plan shall indicate
the contracts subject to IDA'Sprior review.

Procurement Monitoring/Reporting

The GKS will maintain complete procurement files which IDA would review during
supervision missions. Prior to the issuance o f any invitation for bidding or request for
proposals, the GKS will consult with the approved procurement plan and will follow
respective procedures agreed with the IDA for such contracts. Monitoring reports on
procurement progress would be submittedtogether with the FMRs.

E. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended two supervision
missions per year to visit the field to carry out post review o f procurement actions.




                                              67

fa,




       00
       W

Prior Review Threshold: The project procurement plan indicates which contracts will be
subject to prior or ex-post review. As a guidance, the following thresholds will be usedfor the
Bank's prior review:

a.      All contracts under ICB procedure;
b.      All TORSfor consulting services, irrespective ofthe contract value;
c.      Contracts with consulting firms under QCBS procedure and contracts with individual
        consultants estimated to cost US$20,000 or more each;
d.      All single source (withconsulting firms), sole source (with individual consultants) or
direct contracting (for goods contracts) irrespective o f the contract amount.

The above thresholds can be subject to revision as the project implementationprogresses and the
implementationagency has acquired higher procurement capacity.




                                                69

                            Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                 TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe National Statistical System


Economic
The characteristics o f this project do not lendthemselves to the standard calculation o f economic
rate o f return. As the main objective o f this project i s to enable national statistical agencies to
provide reliable, timely and accurate statistics required for policy making, the benefits from the
project can not easily be measured in monetary terms. However, investment in physical
infrastructure and human resources associated with this project i s expected to generate tangible
economic benefits. First, improvements in the efficiency o f statistical operations and agencies
will result in efficiency gains through wider coverage o f higher quality statistical outputs for
given levels o f resources. Second, improved data availability will enhance the potential for
evidence-based decision making, at policy, program and project levels. Third, the project will
help address the significant costs of missing or inaccurate data. In addition, the public goods
nature o f national statistics provides a strong rationale for public involvement in the statistical
sector and the financing o f statistical operations.

Financial
The project i s not amenable to standard financial analysis as national statistical offices have very
limited opportunities for significant cost recovery. Therefore, only marginal financial returns are
expected from this project.        However, there can be several fiscal impacts through the
Government's increased ability to generate fiscal savings. First, improvement in fiscal and
financial statistics should result in a more efficient budgeting process and public expenditure
management. Second, streamlining o f statistical operations would produce less labor-intensive
statistical operations and potential savings inrecurrent costs. Finally, although marginally, there
would be an increase in Government revenue generated from data dissemination and through
reduction incosts.




                                                  70

                              Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
               TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem

No safeguard policies are triggered by this project.

The safeguard screening category is S2 (no safeguard issues).

The environmental screening category i s C (no adverse environmental




                                                71

                         Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                 TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem


                                                    Planned                      Actual
PCN review                                         10/21/2005                   10/27/2005
Initial PID to PIC                                 10/21/2005                   10/21/2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                                10/21/2005                   10/21/2005
Decision Meeting                                   02/07/2006
Appraisal                                          02/14/2006                   02/14/2006
Negotiations                                       03/20/2006                   04/18/2006
Board/RVP approval                                 04/10/2006                   05/01/2006
Planned date o f effectiveness                     05/3 1/2006                  05/3 1/2006
Planned date o f mid-termreview                    06/01/2008                   06/01/2008
Planned closing date                               06/30/2011

Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:
State Statistical Committee o f Republicof Tajikistan
Executive Administration o f the President o f the Republic o f Tajikistan Aid Coordination Unit
Ministry of Justice
Ministry of Finance
National Bank o f Tajikistan
Ministry o f Labor and Social Protection o f Population
Ministry o f Health
Ministry o fAgriculture
Ministry of State Revenues and Duties

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                           Title                               Unit
Mustafa Dinc                      Economist/Statistician TTL
                                                          -                    WB-DECDG
Misha Belkindas                   Manager-Technical Advisor                    WB-DECDG
Robert Schware                     Lead Informatics Specialist                  WB-CITPO
Aziz Khaidarov                          Country Officer                    WB Dushanbe Office
Fasliddin Rakhimov                  Procurement Specialist                     WB - ECSPS
Norpulat Daniyarov              Financial Management Specialist                 WB-ECSPS
Nikolai Soubbotin                         Sr. Counsel                          WB-LEGEC
Emily George                          ExternalReviewer                          DFID-UK
Lucas A. Ojiambo                         Peer Reviewer                         WB-AFTP2
N e i l Fantom                           Peer Reviewer                         WB-DECDG
Mohammed Omar Hadi                   Sr. ProgramAssistant                      WB-DECDG

Bankfunds expended to date onprojectpreparation:
     1. Bank resources: $45,000
     2. Trust funds:
     3. Total: $45,000


                                                 72

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: $65,000
   2. Estimated annual supervision cost: $80,000




                                             73

                          Annex 12: Documentsin the ProjectFile
               TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem

Multi-year IntegratedStatistical Plan (MISP), Republic o fTajikistan, March 16, 2005
Strengthening National Accounts: Action Plan for Tajikistan, June 2005
Project Concept Note
Project Information Document
Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet
Marrakech Action Plan for Statistics, Minuteso f the first meetingo f the Advisory Board,
October 26 and 27,2005, Washington, D.C. Chaired by Jim Adams, Vice President, Operations
and Country Services, World Bank




                                              74

                                       Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                          TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem


                                                                                                                       Difference between
                                                                                                                       expectedandactual
                                                             Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements

ProiectID   FY    Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO84035    2006   FERGHANA VALLEY WATER RES                  0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      12.73      0.00        0.00
PO89566    2005   LAND REGIS & CADASTRE                      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      9.81       0.35        0.00
PO89244    2005   ENERGY LOSS REDUCTION                      0.00      15.00     0.00      0.00    0.00      17.78      0.00        0.00
PO81159    2004   COMMTY AGRIC & WATERSHED                   0.00      0.00      0.00      4.50    0.00      4.30       0.09        0.00
                  MGMT (GEF)
PO77454    2004   COMMTY AGRIC & WATERSHED                   0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      9.81       -0.56       0.00
                  MGMT
PO69055    2003   EDUC MOD                                   0.00      13.00     0.00      0.00    0.00      16.88       0.55       0.00
PO75256    2002   PAMIR PRIV POWER                           0.00     10.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      2.09        0.42       0.00
PO57883    2002   DUSHANBE WS                                0.00      17.00     0.00      0.00    0.00      7.70        0.56       0.00
PO08860    2002   POV ALLV 2                                 0.00      13.80     0.00      0.00     0.00     7.70        0.57       0.00
PO67610    2000   LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION                 0.00      0.47      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.31        0.21       0.21
PO58898    2000   RURAL INFRA REHAB                          0.00     20.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     4.71        1.66       -5.41
PO49718    1999   FARM PRIV SUPPORT                          0.00     20.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.25      -3.38       -0.08
                                                   Total:    0.00    114.27      0.00      4.50     0.00     94.07       0.47     -  5.28




                                                          TAJIKISTAN
                                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                  Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                    InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                             Committed                                   Disbursed

                                                            IFC                                        IFC
       FY Approval  Company                     Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.    Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.
                    EskhataBank                 1.oo         0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00
       2003         Giavoni                     0.00         3.00        0.00      0.00       0.00      3.00        0.00       0.00
       2002         Pamir Energy                4.50         0.61        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.61        0.00       0.00
       2005         SEF AKFED MB Taj            0.00         0.67        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.67        0.00       0.00
       2002         SEF FOM                     0.22         0.00        0.00      0.00       0.22      0.00        0.00       0.00
      2004          SEF FOM                     0.50         0.00        0.00      0.00       0.25      0.00        0.00       0.00
      2002          SEF TelecomTech             0.17         0.00        0.00      0.00       0.17      0.00        0.00       0.00
                               Total portfolio:  6.39        4.28        0.00      0.00       0.64      4.28        0.00       0.00



                                                                           Approvals Pending Commitment
                                                                                                                 ~


                     FY Approval    Company                            Loan        Equity      Quasi       Partic.




                                         Total pendingcommitment:      0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                  75

                                                  Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                          TAJIKISTAN: Strengtheningthe NationalStatisticalSystem
                                                                       Europe 8
POVERTY and S O C I A L                                                 Central     Low-
                                                      Tajikistan          Asia   income            development diamond"
2004                                                                                              I
Population, mid-year (millions)                                    6.4      472      2,338
GNIpercapita (Atlasmethod, US$)                                   280      3,290        5M                       Life expectancy

GNI(Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                                     1.8     1,553      1,184

Average annual growth, 1998-04
Population (%)                                                     0.8       -0.1         1.8
Laborforce (%)                                                     2.4      -0.5          2.1       GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                                    per                         -primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                            capita                           enrollment
Poverty (%of population belownationalpovertyline)
Urban population (Omoftotalpopulation)                             25         64          31
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                    66         68          58
infant mortality(per lOOOlive births)                              76         29          79      I
Chiid malnutrition (%ofchildren under5)                                                   44            Access to improved watersource
Access to an improved watersource (%ofpopulation)                  58         91          75
Literacy(Xofpopu1ation age 15+)                                    99        97           61
Gross primaryenroiiment (%ofschool-age population)                  111      M I          94              -Tajikistan
  Male                                                             ID        x13          x11                     Low-income gro up
  Female                                                           x18       a 1          68

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                 1984            1994     2003      2004            Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                                 1.3        1.6         2.1
Gross capital formation1GDP                                       36.5      18.O         9.o
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                                 41.6      53.2      54.9                            Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                                        25.0       4.3        -1.0
Gross national savingslGDP                            ........    26.7      29.7        -4.O

Current account baiance1GDP                                       -11.1       1.7       -1.9        Domestic                         Capital
Interest paymentslGDP                                 ..           0.0       0.9                    savings                          formation
Total debtlGDP                                        ..          43.1      75.1
Total debt serviceiexports                                         0.1       8.4
Present value of debtlGDP                                                   60.4
Present value of debtlexports                                               88.8                                   Indebtedness
                                     1984-94 1994-04            2003      2004 2004-08
(average annuaigrovdh)
GDP                                       -7.5      3.8           a.2       x1.6          6.1              -Tajikistan

GDP percapita                             -9.9      2.7            9.0       9.4         5.3                  ~    Lo wincome group


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                 1984           1994      2003      * O o 4        Growth o f capital and GDP (Oh)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                                       24.0      23.4                   100 -

Industry                                                          41.0      23.6
 Manufacturing                                        ......      25.6      18.7
Services                                              ..          35.0      53.0
                                                                                                   -
Household final consumption expenditure               ..          55.3      67.4           ..     ,-50
General gov't final consumption expenditure           ..          29.7       6.3
imports of goods and services                         ..          53.1      66.9      64.9                     -GCF            -GDP
                                                                                                                                           I



                                              1484.94         1994-04     2003     2004
(average annualgtuvdh)                                                                             Growth o f exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                        -7.6            4.2       9.6
Industry                                           -4.2            2.8      x1.2
 Manufacturing                                     -2.2            2.7      a.2
Services                                           -4.0            4.6       11.0

Householdfinal consumption expenditure                             7.3                       -
General gov't final consumption expenditure           ....        -7.6
Gross capital formation                           -7.3            -4.6       11.0
Imports of goods and services                         ..           0.8       2.9           "              -Exports           -Inports
                                                                                                 ~


                                                                                                                                            I




                                                                              76

                                                                                                                   Taiikistan

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                             1984  1994     2003    2004        Inflation (Oh)
Domestic prlces
(%change)
                                                                                                                                   I
Consumer prices                                        1.1   16.4     7.3
Implicit GDP deflator                               22i.O    27.9    77.O

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes current grants)                                           l o
Current revenue                                     53.9     77.3     15.6                99        00      01   02      03      04
Current budget balance                                9.1     4.8      3.3    I
Overall surplusldeficit                              -5.2     -1.8   -3.2


T R A D E
                                             1984  1994     2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                  Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total eqorts (fob)                                   559     798     1,x)8   11.500 1
 Aluminum                                            213     430     484                                                           I
 Cotton fiber                                         155     193    202
 Manufactures                                         45       54      75     11000

Total imports (cif)                                  686     1,004   1,307
 Food                                                 99       81     x)6        500
 Fuel and energy                                      B2      159    207
 Capital goods                                        67       82     w7           0

Eqort price index(2000=WO)                            97                              98        99     00    01  02

Import price index(2000=WO)                           w2                                  IExports            e Imports
Terms of trade (2000=WO)                              95


B A L A N C E o f P A Y M E N T S                                                                                                  I
                                             1984  1994     2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                  Current account balance t o G D P (Oh)

Eqorts of goods and Services                         560     827     1,140       5 :
Imports of goods and services                         715    1,040   1,348
Resource balance                                     -155    -20     -292

Net income                                            -29     -90     -92
Net current transfers                                 25     329

Current account balance                              -149      26     -40

Financing items (net)                                 M8        0      79
Changes in net reserves                                 1     -39     -39

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                  1     t38      184
Conversion rate (DEC.iocai/US$j                   1.33E-2      3.1     3.0


EXTERNAL D E B T and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                                                I
                                             1984  1994     2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                  C o m p o s i t i o n o f 2003 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed                 580     1,166
  IBRD                                                  0       0                                    G 82
  IDA                                                   0    228

Total debt service                                      0      89
  IBRD                                                  0       0
  IDA                                                   0       2

Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                                     63       78
  Official creditors                                  777       0
  Private creditors                                     0     -28
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)              f2      32                     E
  Portfolio equity(net inflows)                         0       0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                           0      t3              l
                                                                                A IBRD
                                                                                   -                                  E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                                         0       0                B -IDA       D- Otkmltiiatwal        F Fnvate
                                                                                                                       -
  Principal repayments                                  0       0                C-IMF                                G- Short-ter




                                                                77

                         Annex 15: Governance and AccountabilityIssues
         TAJIKISTAN: STRENGTHENING NATIONAL STATISTICAL SYSTEM

Overview

The project aims to improve efficiency and effectiveness o f the National Statistical System to
enable it to provide relevant, timely and reliable data for evidence-based policy making in
support o f Government's poverty reduction strategies and the process o f economic development.
Though GKS will be the implementingagency, the weak country governance and accountability
systems still pose substantial fiduciary risks for the project implementation.

0bje'ctive

The objective o f this annex i s to present mechanisms that will strengthen the control over the
project implementation, mitigate the risk o f corruption, collusion and fraud and will ensure that
project objectives are achieved. The annex identifies potential risks arising from the fragile
governance and accountability environment and presents mechanisms to be integrated into the
Project Operation Manual (POM) to address these risks.This annex was discussed with GKS and
ACU, which are committed to the issue o f strengthening public investment efficiency,
transparency and integrity.

Strategy

GKS recognizes the inherent risks of project implementation in such a high-risk environment as
Tajikistan. The project proposes to limit the potential risks related to governance issue in a
systematic manner by actively promoting greater transparency, accountability and integrity
through proper project design and implementation. These actions can be summarized as follows:

    1. Twinning Arrangement: It is envisaged that a twinning (partnership) relationship will be
        established between GKS and one o f the well-established statistical offices from
        developed countries. Under this arrangement, the GKS will prepare detailed TOR
        acceptable to IDA for each consulting and training activity and sign one contract for all
        activities that the twining partner will carry out. It i s anticipated that this will cover most
        o f the consulting and training activities that the project will finance. This approach will
        significantly reduce the transaction time and cost o f implementation, as well as the risk o f
        improper management o f project funds.
    2. Project Implementation Arrangements: Under the proposed project implementation set-
        up, the relevant GKS staff will take all responsibility for the project implementation.
        Local consultants who are experts in procurement and financial management issues will
        assist GKS to administer day to day activities o f project implementation. This
        arrangement, where no stand-alone PIU i s established and the whole responsibility lies
        with the relevant government agency will foster efficient, effective and accountable
        procurement execution, contract management and monitoring o f project outcomes. Local
        consultants will be selected based on merit and provided with the necessary training in
        the relevant areas o fproject implementation.




                                                  78

    3. Results-Oriented Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Framework: A results-oriented
        M&E framework has been developed under the MISP and was used as the basis for the
        project's M&Eplan to track progress and demonstrate the impact o f project activities and
        implementation arrangements.
    4. Enhanced disclosure and transparency: A proactive attitude and approach has been
        adopted relating to transparency and public dissemination o f project-related information,
        including through assistance o f the Country Office's Public Information Assistance and
        use o f the Bank's PIC to be soon established inTajikistan. All project related information
        (such as the information on the twinning partner, suppliers and contractors, progress
        reports, etc.) will be regularly posted at the GKS website to eliminate unqualified firms
        and/or individuals from participating inthe project activities as consultants or suppliers.
    5. Strict Adherence to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Procedures: Detailed
        procurement guidelines will be implemented to promote efficient and timely
        procurement, and minimize procurement-associated risks. In addition, external presence
        by civil society and donors at bidopening i s strongly encouraged.
    6. StrengthenedFinancial Management Guidelines and Procedures: Detailed procedures for
        strengthened financial controls, including payment validation procedures, have been
        designedfor all project activities to mitigate fiduciary risks.
    7. Complaints Handling Mechanisms: Mechanisms for effective and transparent handling of
        complaints by the project Steering Committee are included in the Project Operational
        Manual.
    8. Sanctions and Remedies: The project has zero tolerance for corruption, collusion and
        fraud. Any suspicion o f such practices shall warrant immediate investigation with severe
        penalties for any party found culpable o f such practices.

CriticalSuccess Factors

Ownership and Support. The success o f the project depends on continued support from GKS and
selected line-ministries, such as Ministry o f Justice and Ministry o f Finance. In light o f the
twinning arrangement twinning partner's role will also be very important for the successful
implementation o f the project.

IntensiveSupervision. Even strengthenedproject implementationprocedures and guidelines may
not be enough to completely eliminate potentially corrupt and fraudulent activities. It i s highly
conceivable that some vested interests will seek to adapt and discover new methods to maintain
their position. Therefore, giventhe weak capacity environment the task team will pay particular
attention to the governance issue in its intensive supervision efforts, which will be reflected in
the Implementation Summary Reports and Aide-Memoires.




                                                  79

PART 11: MITIGATIONMEASURES

TwinningArrangement

The Marrakech Action Plan for Statistics (MAPS) Advisory Board3recommended greater use o f
statistical offices o f developed countries through a twinning mechanism to help reduce the risk o f
implementation o f capacity building projects that could be constrained by the lack o f expertise
and technical assistance.

Following this recommendation the project will help GKS to establish a twinning relationship
with one o fthe well-established statistical offices from developed countries. It is possible to have
a twinning arrangement with a consortium formed by two or more statistical offices from
developed countries. The twining partner will carry out most o f the consulting and training
activities based on the detailed TORs prepared by GKS that are acceptable to IDA. Under such
an arrangement, the number of contracts to be signed will be significantly reduced that will, in
turn, reduce the risk of any wrongdoing and improper management of project funds. Another
important aspect o f this approach i s that the transaction time and cost o f implementationwill also
be reduced.

ProjectImplementationArrangements

Project implementation will be carried out by GKS with assistance in fiduciary and coordination
aspects o f the Project Coordination Team comprising o f local consultants. Overall project
supervision and evaluation responsibility will lie with the Project Steering Committee that will
consist o f high-level representatives from the Government. Terms o f Reference (TORs)
describing the roles and responsibilities for all key project personnel have been prepared by the
GKS, agreed with the IDA, and included inthe Project Operational Manual (POM). These TORs
and POM will form the basis for annual reviews o f the project governance and accountability
arrangements.

GKS shall prepare appropriate procedures and guidelines related to all project activities such as
procurement, financial management and reporting, record keeping, complaints handling and
M&E. These guidelines and procedures shall be included in the POM and be periodically
reviewedby GKS.

Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be established by the Government to ensure appropriate
level o f commitment and support from various government agencies and ministries. The PSC
will be chaired the Presidential State Advisor on Economic Policy and will include the chairman
o f GKS, deputy Ministers of Finance, Justice who are familiar with the project, and Head o f Aid
Coordination Unit. PSC will meet twice a year and perform mainly the function o f ensuring
interdepartmental interaction, and exercising monitoring and evaluation o f project progress.




 Marrakech Action Planfor Statistics, Minutes o f the first meeting of the Advisory Board, October 26 and 27,2005,
Washington, D.C. Chaired by Jim Adams, Vice President, Operations and Country Services, World Bank.
Document is inthe project file.


                                                         80

GKS will be the main executing agency of the project and will be responsible for its overall
management and implementation. Ifneeded, it will be assisted in substantive issues by local and
international consultants to be selected on merit basis and in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines.

Project Coordination Team (PCT) o f up to 5 persons will be in charge o f efficiently carrying out
the implementation and administrative work. A project coordinator who is an expert in project
management, a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist and an assistant will be
hired by the GKS. Specifically, this unit will coordinate day-to-day project activities, manage
reporting and auditing activities and ensure compliance with the procurement, disbursement and
financial management policies and procedures. PCT will report to the chairman o f GKS.

Inorder to build capacity and reduce governance risksthe project will pay particular attention to
fiduciary training for GKS and PCT staff. In particular it i s envisaged that GKS and PCT
procurement staff will undergo in-country training prior to project effectiveness and, if
necessary, thereafter abroad in World Bank procurement guidelines and Government
procurement regulations to ensure compliance with such processes.

The financial management staff o f GKS and PCT will also be trained in-country and, if needed,
abroad on financial management and reporting, including the preparation and utilization o f
World Bank Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The FMR will provide an opportunity to
strengthen fiduciary oversight by integrating procurement, implementation and financial
management;

Results-OrientedMonitoring and Evaluation(M&E)Framework and Action Plan

The Project Steering Committee (PCS) will play an important role in monitoring and evaluation
o f the project implementation and its expected outputs and outcomes. PCS shall endorse and
monitor the implementationo fthe project and results-oriented M&E indicators.

GKS with technical assistance o f the Project Coordination Team (PCT) shall develop, monitor
and review the results-oriented M&E indicators and when necessary revise and update them.
GKS shall also review M&E reports prepared by PCT, particularly in relation to tracking
progress and demonstrating the impact of project activities and implementation arrangements.

GKS will be responsible for the submission of the M&E reports to the Government and the
Project Steering Committee.

EnhancedDisclosureand Transparency

PCT will make the below activities publicly available within 20 days through the GKS website:


     0  All annual procurementplansand schedules, including all updates thereof;
     0  All short-lists o f consultant firms and contractors/suppliers together with the names and
        dates o f all expressions o f interests received;




                                                    81

       Inthe case ofpre-qualification, all lists ofpre-qualified contractors and supplierstogether
       with the names and dates ofproposals received;
       Summaries o f all bidding documents as well as all requests for proposals issued in
       accordance with the procurement provisions o f this agreement;

PCT will also make the activities listed below publicly available within 1 month through the
GKS website;

       All annual audit reports (financial or otherwise, and including qualified audit reports) and
       audit management letters prepared in accordance with the financing agreements for this
       project, and all formal responses and follow-up actions o f the government; the disclosure
       o f audit reports will be completed not later than 30 days after receipt o f these reports by
       project management;
       All World Bank mid-term review reports prepared for this purpose, in accordance with
       the legal agreement;

Strict Adherence to ProcurementGuidelinesand Procedures

PCT shall:

       Place Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) in local media as outlined in the POM and,
       where necessary, on the UNDBand DgMarket websites;
       Specify within any SPN/Invitations to Bid, the requirement for all proposals to include
       clear and detailed specifications and cost breakdowns for all proposals
       NOT impose any restrictions (geographic or otherwise) to limit the participation o f
       consultants/bidders;
       Ifneeded, inviterepresentatives ofend-users, NGOs andCSOsto attendbidopenings;
       Prepare and maintain reports o f bid openings for all contracts subject to prior-review    by
       the World Bank;
       Seek at least three quotations incases o f shopping;
       File and maintain procurement documents inaccordance with POM guidelines.
       Ensurethat all SPN and informationon bidopening are placed on GKS website;
       Maintain, and annually publish on GKS website, a project price data-base o f commonly
       procured items (including office supplies) from previous competitively tendered
       contracts;
       EnsureDueDiligence and Disclosureby Bidders.
       Explicitly state in all SPNs for all procurements valued at or more than US$lOO,OOO the
       requirement for all firms to submit as part of their proposal their full particulars
       including:
           o The postal and email address, telephone and fax numbers, URL o f the registered
               office, and address o f the principal place o f business if different from the
               registeredoffice;
           o The names, addresses and telephone and fax numbers of all partners and
               shareholders who hold a 10 percent or greater share inthe firm;
           o The names, addresses and telephone and fax numbers o f all principal officers o f
               the firm;


                                                 82

           o A banker's opinion statement o fthe firm;
    e  Have the right to reject a firm's proposal if any o f the above information i s not disclosed;
    e  Requireall individual consultants to disclose a signed statement of any relationship up to
       the third degree with any gradellevel Head of Department official from the agencies
       involved inproject implementation, as the case may be;
    e  Be responsible for conducting adequate checks and due diligence on any information
       and/or signed statements provided by firms and individual consultants.

StrengthenedFinancialManagementand PaymentValidation

PCT shall require:

       Verification o f satisfactory completion o f any workshops and training activities prior to
       reimbursemento f any expenses incurred by the participants or the Project;
       Signature o f at least 2 authorized individuals outlined inthe POM for any withdrawals o f
       funds from the project designated account;
       Minimal document requirements for payment authorization, to be retained at the GKS
       and attached to the relevant payment voucher for audit purposes, even if not requiredto
       be submittedto the treasury paymentkeldoffice;
       Formal invoices on company letterheads, with complete contract addresses and tax
       registrationnumber;
       For individual consultants, copies o f ID cards to be appended to invoices;
       For claims for reimbursable expenses as specified in the contract, original third party
       invoices and receipts (including travel tickets, hotel bills, contracts for rental o f office
       equipment, receipts for operating expenses);
       For goods, warrant cards, evidence o f delivery (packing list or transportation documents
       and acceptance, and certificate of origin ifimported);
       For training, workshops and seminars, signed list o f attendees and photographs from
       events.

GKS with assistance of the PCT shall beresponsible for:

Preparation and submission of consolidated monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual progress
and financial report to the Government, PSC and ACU.

ComplaintsHandlingMechanisms

All complaints received will be properly registered, reviewed and submitted to the PSC for
consideration. PSC will serve as the complaint handling body for the project. Detailed
procedures for complaints handling are set out in the POM and will be reviewed on a semi-
annual basis. The Project Coordination Team shall periodically review the results o f complaints
handling mechanism for the project, particularly provisions for follow-up investigations o f
serious and unresolved complaints by the internal auditors, and/or third party audit to ensure
independency and reliability o f the system.




                                                 83

Sanctions & Remedies

  0   Upon decision o f the PSC, the GKS requires the concerned ministry/institution to take
      action, including prosecution, against staff involved incorruption, collusion, nepotism.


  0   GKS, in coordination with ACU, will put in place by project effectiveness a system of
      blacklisting for companies and individuals that engage in collusion or have produced
      outputs o f unacceptably poor quality.


  0   Upon decision o f the PSC the GKS shall apply a 'one-strike' policy to all contractors and
      consultants - any case o f complicity in corruption, collusion, nepotism and/or fraud will
      lead to dismissal, disqualification from all further project activities and possible
      prosecution.

      PSC may drop/discontinue an entire sub-component if it fails to properly deal with issues
      o f corruption, collusion, nepotism, fraud and/or persistent procurement irregularities.




                                               84

                                                    68E             KAZAKHSTAN                                         70E                                                      72E                                                       TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTERS*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OBLAST CENTERS
                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                          Tashkent
                                TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                   ASHT                          Andijon                                                                         RIVERS
                                                                                                                           Fergana
                                                                                       To
                                                                                       To                                   Valley                      UZBEKISTAN                                                                               MAIN ROADS
                                                                                     Tashkent           MATCHO     Taboshar               Darya
                                                                                                               KHUJAND               Syr                      To
                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                            Andijon                                                                              RAILROADS

                                                                                                     Khodjand      Kayrakkum                 KONIBODOM
                                                                       ZAFAROBOD                                    Reservoir           Konibodom                                                                                                RURAL DISTRICTS (RAIONS)
                                                                                                     NAU
                                                                                                         Chkolovsk                                                                                                                               AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARIES*
                                                                                                                                      ISFARA
                                                      To
                                                      To
              40N                                  Bukhoro        URA-TYUBE
                                                                                                               PROLETAR                                                                                                 40N                     OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                               Ura-                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                               Tyube                                                           Kyzyl-Kiya                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                       KYRGYZ REP.
                  To
                  To                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Area with no oblast-level administrative divisions,
                Bukhoro                                                             SHAHRISTON                                                                                                                                             where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.
                                                                                              GONCHI                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                To                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                             Sary-Tash                              Osh

                                Pendzhikent                                          S O G D             Zeravshan
                                                                   Ayni                                                                                                                                                                74E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0      20        40     60       80 Kilometers
                                  PENJIKENT                                    R E G I O Nn g eMATCHO
                                                                                AINI                                                                                                                        Pik Lenin
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (7134 m )
                                                                       Trans             Alai-Ra                                    RASHT             Jirgatal'
                                                                                                                                                                         JIRGITAL

                                                                                                                                 Rasht                                       Pik Imeni                              Lake                            0            20           40            60 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                        Ismail Samani                            Karakul'
                                                                                                  KOFARNIHON                                   TOJIKOBOD
                                                                                                                     DARBAND                                                (7495 m )
                                                                                    VARZOB
                                                               SHAHRINAV                                Komsomolabad                                        TAVILDARA
                          Region under                                                                                                                                                                G H O R N O -
                                           TURSUNZADE                                                          ROGUN

                         direct Republic                 DUSHANBE                                              Obigarm                                                                           B A D A K H S H A N
                         subordination                                                              FAIZOBOD                                  KALAYKUMB                         VANCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Rangkul'
                                                                                                                  HOVALING                                                     Pik Revolution
                                                                     GISSAR                        Nurek                              Kalaikhum                                                             A . O .
                                                                                                                                                                       Vanj        (6,974 m)                                                                                      CHINA
               UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                                 P                             Rukhch
                                                                                        YAVAN K H A T L O N                                                                     a           Bartang                          Murgab Murgab

                                                                                                R E G I O N                           Panj                                            m
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lake
              38N                                                                                                                                                                          i RUSHANSarezskoye                                                                                          38N
                                                                     RUDAKI          BOKHTAR            SOVIET            MUMINOBOD                                                               r                             MURGAB
                                       KURGAN-                                                                  KULJAB
                                                                                         DANGARA                                                                                                      s
                                         TYUBE                             GOZIMALIK                     Kulyab        SHUROBOD

                                                                                        Kurgan-                                                                                                                                                                   Aksu
                     To
                     To                                                                                     VOSE                                                                          SHUGNAN                          Alichur
                   Qarshi                                                               Tyube                   MOSKOW
                                                         KABODIENJILIKUL               VAKHSH                  Moskovskiy
                                                    Garavuti                                     FARKHOR
                                                                             KOLKHOZABAD                                                                                                                                     Pamir
                                                                                                                                                                           Khorog
                                            SHAHRTUZ                                                                                                                                              ROSHTKALA
                                                                                             PYANJ                                                                                    Pik Karl Marx
                                       Shahrtuz         Vakhsh                                 Pyanj
                                                                                                                                                                        Andarob         (6723 m )

                                                                                    KUMSANGIR
                                                                                                                                                                                          Vrang
                                                                                                                                                                            ISHKASHIM
                                                                                          To
                                                                                          To                                                                                            Panj
                                                                                        Baghlan
NOVEMBER                                                                                                                                                                  Ishkashim                                                                                                                          IBRD
                                                                                                 AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank          33493
        2004                                                                                                                                                                              PAKISTAN                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                         68E                                                                         70E                                                           72E                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

