Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  02/18/2006 
Report No.:  AC2064
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Tajikistan 
Project ID:  P098410 
Project Name:  Strengthening the National Statistical System of Tajikistan for 
Development and Poverty Reduction 
Task Team Leader:  Mustafa Dinc 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 13, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: April 28, 2006 
Managing Unit:  DECDG 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Central government administration (100%) 
Theme:  Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting (P);Poverty strategy, analysis and 
monitoring (S);Other economic management (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
1.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.87 
 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
(DFID)1.10 
 
SWEDEN: SWEDISH INTL. DEV. COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA)  2.10 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
4.07 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The main objective of the project is to improve efficiency and effectiveness of the 
National Statistical System to enable it to provide relevant, timely and reliable data for 
evidence-
based policy making in support of Government’s poverty reduction strategies 
and the process of economic development.  
 
The principal outcome of this project will be a well functioning national statistical 
system that will significantly improve Government’s decision-making process by 
providing timely and accurate economic and social data. It will also help Government 
monitor progress towards national development goals, including the PRSP goals and the 
MDGs.  The specific outputs of the project are:  
 
•
improved legal and institutional framework that will encourage statistical 
development;  
Page  2
•
improved physical and information technology (IT) infrastructure;  
 
•
strengthened human resources through training in statistical operations;  
 
•
improved statistical infrastructure through application of internationally accepted 
methodologies and data quality standards;  
 
•
developed statistical production system that continuously adapts to evolving 
needs of the society and economy through user-producer dialogues;  
 
•
institutionalized core statistical activities, including poverty monitoring;  
 
•
increased output of reliable statistics by consolidating and strengthening existing 
surveys and administrative sources, and by designing and conducting new data-
generating activities; and  
 
•
timely dissemination, information-sharing, and the use of data for policy 
decisions.  
 
Achievement of the specific objectives of the project will support the overall goal by 
reducing the cost of information supply, increasing the demand, and making coordination 
of statistical activities, financing, and execution more effective. It will also help statistical 
agencies in line ministries through improved institutional interaction between statistical 
agencies and training of their relevant staff. These objectives are in full agreement with 
the MISP. Key performance indicators include the following:  
 
•
Increased user satisfaction relative to a baseline (including consultations, 
usefulness of products, etc).  
 
•
Greater use and interpretation of statistical information by economic actors; 
 
•
Increased use of statistical information in government’s plans and programs;  
 
•
Improved quality of statistics disseminated through various publications;  
 
•
Improved quality of progress reports indicating increased availability and quality 
of required statistical data;  
 
•
The National statistical system increasingly conforms to the international 
standards with regular updating and publication of the GDDS metadata in line with its 
recommendations.  
 
Baseline data will be based on existing surveys and the surveys to be conducted in the 
first 6 months of the project.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project components are designed to support the implementation of the MISP, and 
will be implemented in a coherent, consistent and well-sequenced manner. The major 
components of the project are planned as:  
 
A. Institutional Development ($180,000)  
 
This component will support the improvement of the institutional capacity to carry out 
the formulation, coordination, and implementation of appropriate statistical policies and 
programs that will address to the needs of Tajikistan. It will support the review and 
improvement of existing legal framework and development of an institutional framework 
that will clearly define the interaction and dialog between GKS and relevant line 
ministries and statistical agencies. This component will also support the improvement of 
Page  3
organizational structure of the national statistical system. Expected outputs will be 
improved statistical legislation and regulations that promote the effective production and 
use of data while guaranteeing the confidentiality of individual records, as well as a better 
functioning organizational structure for the national statistical system.  
 
B. Human Resource Development ($710,000)  
 
The target is to improve the qualifications of the personnel in all statistical offices of the 
national statistical system. Training will be provided in basic and advanced 
methodologies and techniques, particularly those that support the priority indicators for 
MISP. Training should be in the form of seminars abroad and in the country, 
consultancies, and on the job training. There will also be substantial opportunity for staff 
to go on study tours, mostly to CIS countries, and to participate in international seminars.  
 
C. Development of Statistical Infrastructure ($1,300,000)  
 
In general, GKS inherited weak methodological skills from the Soviet period; inasmuch 
as sampling methods were not well developed under Soviet statistics and nearly all 
methodological decisions were made in Moscow.  GKS therefore needs to build up the 
skills from a very low level in many respects.  For each new area GKS needs to acquire 
necessary skills (classifications, sampling, seasonal adjustment, data quality) and will 
create a working group, which would include staff members from the methodology 
division but also from subject matter divisions that would be involve in this issues. 
Because of the risk of future staff turnover, these working groups will need to prepare 
methodological materials in writing and post them on the LAN, for use by other staff 
members as needed.  
 
Therefore, this component addresses the improvement of the basic elements of the 
statistical infrastructure: statistical registers, sample frames, classifications and 
methodologies, statistical computer packages for analysis of survey data, and 
Geographical Information System (GIS) for statistical mapping.  
 
D. Data Development ($1,030,000)  
 
This component will support the adaptation of internationally accepted standards and 
methodologies in data collection, compilation, and validation by GKS and other relevant 
agencies.  It will also support further development of sectoral statistics on issues such as 
national accounts, price statistics, vital registration, health, education, poverty and living 
standards, employment, public finance, agriculture and transportation.  
 
E. Physical Infrastructure and Equipment ($1,650,000)  
 
This component will support upgrading existing information technology (IT), 
transportation and other equipment that is essential to carry out existing and project 
activities.  Equipment to be financed includes transportation vehicles, computers and 
networking equipment, IT accessories, survey equipment and accessories, and office 
furniture and supplies used by GKS as well as line ministries.  
 
F. Project Management ($150,000)  
Page  4
GKS will be the main executing agency of the project and will be responsible for its 
management. To effectively carry out the implementation and daily project 
administrative work, a project coordinator who is an expert in project management, a 
financial management specialist, a procurement specialist and an assistant will be hired 
by the executing agency. Specifically, this unit will coordinate project activities, manage 
reporting and auditing activities and ensure compliance with the procurement, 
disbursement and financial management policies and procedures.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Dushanbe City, Tajikistan and where necessary regoiinal offices of the State Statistical 
Committee.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
N/A   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
N/A   
Page  5
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
N/A   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
Page  6
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Mustafa Dinc 
12/27/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
01/11/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
01/11/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Carlos Felipe Jaramillo 
 
Comments:   
