Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H227-TJ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Strengthening the National Statistical System Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 19, 2006  
 
Page  2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H227-TJ 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 19, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referenced in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 700,000) (
“Grant”) to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”); 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the GKS 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement) 
have been fulfilled. 
(b) 
The Project Coordination Team with staff, resources and under terms of 
reference, all satisfactory to the Association, has been established by the 
Recipient. 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: the Co-financing 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and is legally 
binding upon the Recipient in accordance with its terms. 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
Page  5
-
3
-
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
3 Akademikov Rajabovikh Ave. 
 Dushanbe, 
734025 
Republic of Tajikistan  
 
Facsimile: 
(992-372) 213329 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
By /s/  Safarali Najmuddinov 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Cevdet Denizer 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to provide assistance in the modernization and the 
improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of the national statistical system of the 
Recipient that will provide relevant, timely and reliable data for evidence-based policy 
making in support of government's poverty reduction strategies and the process of 
economic development.  
The Project constitutes the phase I-b of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
Part A
.
Institutional Development
Improvement of
 the Recipient’s capacity to carry out the formulation, 
coordination and implementation of appropriate statistical policies and programs, 
including: (a) review and improvement of the legal and institutional framework; and (b) 
improvement of the organization of national statistical system of the Recipient. 
 
Part B.
Human Resource Development
Improvement of the qualifications of the personnel in all statistical offices being 
part of the national statistical system of the Recipient, through, inter alia, training, study 
tours, and participation in international seminars.  
 
Part C.
Development of Statistical Infrastructure
Improvement of the basic elements of the statistical infrastructure, including the 
statistical registers, sample frames, classifications and methodologies, statistical 
computer packages for analysis of survey data, and the GIS for statistical mapping. 
 
Part D
.
Data Development
1. 
 
Assistance in the adaptation of internationally accepted standards and 
methodologies in data collection, compilation, and validation by the GKS and other 
relevant agencies.  
 
2.  
Assistance with further development of sectoral statistics on issues including, 
inter alia
,
national accounts, price statistics, vital registration, health, education, poverty 
and living standards, employment, public finance, including national external and internal 
debt data, agriculture and transportation.   
 
Page  7
-
5
-
Part E
.
Physical Infrastructure and Equipment
Upgrade of the existing information technology and provision of vehicles, 
computers, networking equipment, information technology accessories, survey equipment 
and accessories, office furniture and supplies and other equipment and accessories 
essential to carry out the Project activities by the GKS and the line ministries of the 
Recipient. 
 
Part F
.
Project Management
Strengthening the GKS’s capacity for Project implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation, including audit, procurement, disbursement and financial management 
activities, through the financing of Operating Costs incurred by the GKS on account of 
Project implementation. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Project Implementation 
1.  
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the 
Project, a Project Steering Committee with the composition, terms of reference 
and resources satisfactory to the Association.  
2.  
The Recipient, through the GKS, shall be responsible for overall implementation 
and management of the Project and shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the Project Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association.  
3.  
For the purposes of day-to-day Project management, including reporting and 
auditing, procurement, disbursement and financial management, the Recipient, 
through the GKS, shall establish and maintain at all times during the 
implementation of the Project the Project Coordination Team with staff, 
resources and under terms of reference, all satisfactory to the Association. 
4.  
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall: (a) maintain in a bank acceptable to the Association a separate 
account for the purposes of the Recipient’s counterpart contribution to the Project 
(the Project Account); (b) replenish said Account promptly within 10 days after 
the beginning of each calendar quarter with funds sufficient to finance the 
Recipient’s counterpart contribution under the Project for such period; (c) use the 
amount in the Project Account exclusively for financing the Recipient’s 
contribution to Project expenditures; and (d) ensure that sufficient annual 
allocations will be made in the Recipient’s budget for the Recipient’s counterpart 
contribution under the Project. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
Page  9
-
7
-
be furnished to the Association not later than six months prior to the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1.  
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2.  
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association no later than one month after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the calendar quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
.
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referenced in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 Consultant
s’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referenced in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
Page  10
-
8
-
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Shopping; and 
 
(b)  Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)   
Least-Cost Selection; 
 
(b) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications; 
 
(c)   
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 
5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants; and 
 
(d)   
Single-Source Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
 1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association 
may specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2.  
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Goods and 
consultants’ services, 
including Training 
 658,000 
 
100% 
(2)  Operating Costs 
 
42,000 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
700,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  12
-
10
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Co-financier” means either SIDA (as hereinafter defined) or DFID (as hereinafter 
defined), and “Co-financiers” means SIDA and DFID jointly. 
 
2. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of $3,088,000 (three million eighty-eight 
thousand Dollars) to be provided by the Co-financiers to assist in the financing 
the Project. 
 
3. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Recipient and the 
Association, as an administrator of the funds provided by the Co-financiers for 
the Co-financing. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
5. 
“DFID” means the Department for International Development of the United 
Kingdom and Northern Ireland. 
6. 
“GIS” means the Geographical Information System of the Recipient.  
7. 
“GKS” or “Goskomstat” means the State Statistical Committee of the Recipient, 
or any successor thereto. 
8. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
9. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the GKS on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, audit, 
procurement and financial management, including the PCT staff salaries, 
provision of necessary equipment, Training, consultants’ services, office and 
equipment maintenance and minor repair, equipment rental, vehicle maintenance 
and repair, local travel, communication, translation and interpretation, bank 
charges, social charges, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with 
the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Association. 
10. 
“PCT” means the Project Coordination Team referenced in paragraph 2 of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
Page  13
-
11
-
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 18, 2006 and referenced in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
13. 
“Program” means the Statistical Capacity Building Program (STATCAP) 
designed to increase access to assistance to strengthen National Statistical 
Systems and increase their capacity to produce more reliable, timely and accurate 
data and referenced in the letter dated February 7, 2005 from the Recipient to the 
Association. 
14. 
”Project Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
adopted by the Recipient and setting out the operational and administrative 
procedures for the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended 
from time to time by agreement between the Association and the Recipient. 
15. 
“SIDA” means the Swedish International Development Agency. 
16.  
“Training” means expenditures for Project-related study tours, training courses, 
seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under goods or 
service providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and 
equipment rental, travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers.  
 
