Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                           Report No. 10551-IND
Report No. 10551-IND Type: (SAR)
CHARLES, J/ X824922 / A9 043/ EA3IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 22, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1992)
Currency Unit   - Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 million    - US$502
US$1.00         - Rp 1,992
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
UNITS OF MEASURES
1 meter (m)           m  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)        -  2.47 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                -   Asian Development Bank
AADT or ADT        -   Average Annual Daily Traffic
AMDAL              -   Analysis of Environment Impacts
BAPPEDA I and II  -   Provincial and Kabupaten Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS           -   National Development Planning Agency
CTC                -   Central Technical Con6ultants
DGH                -   Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGLC               -   Directorate General of Land Communications (MOC)
DGRD               -   Directorate General of Regional Development (MHA)
DPUK               -   Kabupaten Office of Public Works
DPUP               -   Provincial Office of Public Works
EIA                -   Environmental Impact Assessment
FCI                -   Field Consultants for Implementation
GOI                -   Govern.aent of Indonesia
INPRES             -   Instruksi President (in project context, a central
government grant program to local governments)
IPJK               -   Inpres Peningkatan Jalan Kabupaten (central government
grant for rehabilitation/improvement of kabupaten roads)
IRI                -   International (road) roughness index
P.T. Jasa Marga   -   Indonesia Toll Road Corporation
MHA                -   Ministry of Home Affairs
HOC                -   Ministry of Communications
MOF                -   Ministry of Finance
MPW                -   Ministry of Public Works
OECF               -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PBPJK              -   Proyek Bantuan Peningkatan Jalan Kabupaten (special
provincial road units for assistance to loLil
governments)
REPELITA           -   Indonesia National Five Year Development Plan
REPPPROT           -   Regional Physical Planning Program for Transmigration
RUT                -   Road User Tax
SOE                -   Statement of Expenditure
USAID              -   U.S. Agency for International Development
VOC                -   Vehicle operating cost



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Amounts             US$215 million equivalent
Lending TerMs:      Twenty years repayment, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Obiectives
and Description:    The principal objectives of the project are to improve
access to the main economic centers in 73 kabupatens
(districts) in nine provinces (West Java, West Kalimantan
and all provinces of Sumatra except Riau) and to increase
the capability of all agencies in the country dealing with
kabupaten roads.  The project includes the following main
components: (a) a road network improvement component,
subdivided into three subcomponents: (i) road works and
supervision for the maintenance of an increasing share of
the maintainable part of the kabupaten road network as
well as rehabilitation/improvement of selected roads in
project kabupatens over three fiscal years starting in
1992/93; (ii) workshops and laboratories upgrading and
equipping; (iii) provision of equipment, spare parts and
supplies; (b) a training component, including development
and implementation of priority parts of a nationwide
training program for kabupaten road staff; and
(c) technical assistance and studies for strengthening
systems and procedures nationwide regarding planning,
environmental analysis, and implementation ol' road works,
and for helping GOI central agencies in monitoring project
execution.
Project Benefits
and Risks:          Rehabilitation/improvement and better maintenance oE roads
will lead to significant reduction of vehicle operating
costs in the 73 kabupatens. In addition, the project will
increase GOI's capability to plan and implement kabupaten
road works programs efficiently in the entire country
thereby reducing the costs of road provision and road use.
Over time, lower road transport costs will translate intu
lower agricultural costs, higher rural incomes, and a
better integration of the Indonesian economy. The main
project risk is that the substantial changes that this
project will introduce in the way kabupaten road works
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autherization.



- ii -
progrems are prepared and implemented vill take longer
than expected to take root, particularly in view of the
still evolving allocation of responsibilities between MPW
and MHA and the limited capacity of the central and
provincial agencies in charge of assisting and supervising
kabupatens. To reduce this risk, GOI's Development
Planning Agency, BAPPERAS, will continue to play a strong
coordinating role and a project mid-term implementation
review will be carried out around September 1993. Another
risk is that project-assisted kabupatens may be reluctant
to increase their funding of maintenance as expected to
fulfill project's targets. To reduce this risk, the
t :gets have been carefully designed and adequacy of
K intenance will be for each kabupaten a condition of
participation in the project's annual rehabilitation/
improvement programs.
Estimated Costs: L/                                  Local     Foreign   Total
------ US$ million ------
A.   Road network improvement
1. Road worko                             271.7        128.7    400.4
2.  Workshops, laboratories                 1.3          2.0       3.3
3.  Equipment program                       0.9          4.9      5.8
Subtotal                               273.9        135.6    409.5
B.   Training                                     4.6         3.6       8.2
C.   Institltech. devt.                           4.4         5.4       9.8
Total Base Costs                          282.9        144.6    427.5
Physical Contingencies                   28.3         14.5     42.8
Price Contingencies                      19.2          9.7     28.9
Total Proiect Costs                       330.4        168.8    499.2
FinancinR Plan:
GOI                                     284.2          0.0    284.2
IBRD                                     46.2        168.8    215.0
Total Financina                           330.4        168.8    499.2
La Inclusive of taxes and duties amounting to US$45.4 million equivalent.



- iii -
Eotimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY                          F93        FY94       FY95       FY96
---------- US$ million -----------
Annual                           28         64         80         43
Cumulative                       28         92         172        215
Economic Rate
of Return:             About 35 percent
Map:                    IBPD No. 23640R



- iv -
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I   TIHE TRANSPORT SECTOR  .                                            1
A. Economic and Sector Setting        .
B. Sector Organization  . ... . . . . .       .... . ....           1
C. Sector Performance . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .       2
D. Government Objectives and Policies                               3
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR  * * . .         . .                              4
A. The Network  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .    .               4
B. Road Transport . . * .     .   . .  * .  . . . . . . . . .       4
Vehicle Fleet and Traffic  .  ....  .. ....                    4
Road Transport Industry and Regulations                        5
Road User Taxaton ....... ...................                  6
Traffic Safety . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .       6
C. Road Infrastructure                                              6
Institutional Aspects                                          6
Planning/Progr.mming/Budgeting and Expenditures  . . . .       9
Technical Aspects  . .............. ....  .                   10
Environmental Aspects        a .    * ..............*.....    13
D. Policy Statement anc Action Plan for Road Infrastructure
and Road Traffic and Transport               . . . . . .      13
Background and Descrlption.                  .                13
Main Achievements  . . . . ... .  . . . . . . . .. .  . . .   14
III. PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE ROAD SUBSECTOR AND LESSONS
LKA D  .  . . ..     . .. 9..  .9.9 .....9. . . . . . . ..         15
A. Past Bank Involvement  . ........... ......                     15
B. Man Lessons Learned sL         nad................              15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in January/February 1992, comprising Jean-Charles Crochet (Senior
Transport Economist, task manager), Jacques Tolli6 (Senior Highway Engineer)
and Jun Zhang (Infrastructure Economist). Messrs. Cittati (Senior Highway
Engineer), Segerstrom (Training Specialist) and Martin (Environmental
Specialist, consultant) and Ms. Sharma (Procurement Specialist) also
participated in the preparation of the project. Peor Reviewers were
Messrs. Beenhakker (economic aspects) and Long (technical aspects).
Mrs. Haug, Director, EA3, and Mr. Khanna, Division Chief, EA3IN, have endorsed
the project.



-v-
Page No.
IV.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
A.  Objectives  ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  18
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement ...        ........                18
C. Project Description  a . . . .                                        18
D. Road Network Improvement and Maintenance ....   ....              19
Road Rehabilitation/Improvement  . . . . . . . . . . . .       20
Road Works Programs Supervision  . . . . . . .  .  . .         21
Workshops and Laboratories  . .    . . . . . . . .   ...       21
Road Construction and Maintenance Equipment  . . . . . .       21
P. Technical Assistance for Institu*tional 'and Technical
Deve-.opwent   .......... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      22
G.* Cost Estimates .....   ..........*. . . .                        23
H. Financing  . . . .                               . . . . . . . . .  23
I. Imuplementation and Monitoring  ..........     ..                 24
Jo* Procurement  . . . . . . . .                                           25
K.* Disbursements............... . . . . . . .                       27
L. Accounts and Audits  . *. .  o.....o..  ... . ....                29
M. Retroactive Financing      ...... o.....# o...  .  ..             30
N. EnvironmentlImatl.p.c. . .. .. .. .. . ..  .  .  ..               30
V. ECONOMCEVLAICNE..A..UATI..O... .. . . ............                    33
A. Benefitseand Beneficiaries . a  ..... ...a      *    o9.....      33
B. Preparation of the Annual Road Works Programs  . . . . . .        33
C. Project Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests . . . . . .        36
VI.* MAIN AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . .        39
TABLES IN TEXT
4.1   Project Cost Suimmary    ............ . . . . . . .                  24
4.2   Project Financing Plan                           *                                  . . . . . .   24
4.3   Contract Packaging for Rehabilitation/Improvement Works . . .        26
4.4   Procurement Arrangements               . ... .  .   *    ...o. .  ..  28
5.1   Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests  . . . . . . . . . . .        39



- vi -
ANNEXES
1. Outline Methodology for Preparation of Maintenance Programs
2. Training Component: Content and Implementation
3. Project Economic Evaluation Methodology and Planning Procedures
4.   Road Network Length by Road Class and Island Group
'; Road Pavement by Road Class and Island Group
v.   Condition of the L' 'ional, Provincial, and Kabupaten Road Networks
). Registered Motor VeLdlcles (1980-1990) in Indonesia
8.   Project Kabupatens and Their Road Network
9. Design Standards for Rabupaten Roads and Bridges
10.   List of Equipment
11.   Detailed Cost Table and Summary Account by Project Component
12.   Implementation Schedule
13.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
14.   Reporting Requirements
15.   Supervision Plan
16.   Main Economic Features of Proposed First Year Rehabilitation/Improvement
Works
17.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
1.    Organization of the Directorate General of Highways (DGH)
2.    Organization of the Directorate General of Regional Development (DGRD)
3.    Organization of the Provincial Public Works Offices (DPUP)
4.    Organization of the Kabupaten Public Works Offices (DPUK)
MAP   IBRD No. 23640R



STAFF APPRAISAL L tORT
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic and Sector Setting
1.1       Indonesia, the world's largest archipelago, extends some 5,100 km
from east to vest and 1,800 km from north to south. It has a land area of
about 1.9 million km2 with a wide diversity of geographic conditions. The
population    over 180 million in 1990 is very unevenly distributed with
extremes ranging from a density of over 800 people/km2 in Java to less thar 4
people/km2 in Irian Jaya. Despite high urban growth, about 70 percent of the
population still lives in rural areas.
1.2       The Indonesian economy has performed relatively well over the long
term. For example, between 1985 and 1990, real GNP grew at an average of 5.8
percent p.a. This period has been marked by rapid structural change and a
growing diversification of the economy as a result of GOI's effort at reducing
internal and external imbalAnces and promoting private sector development.
Agriculture, which still accounts for about 20 percent of GNP and 50 percent
of non oil exports (including timber) and provides employment to more than 50
percent of the population, will continue to be a key economic sector.
1.3       Because of the vast size of the cotmntry and the uneven distribution
of population, natural resources and economic activity, transport is of
special importance to the Indonesian economy and an extensive transport system
has been developed over time. All transporz modes-road, rail, shipping, civil
aviation, inland waterways, and pipeliner -,are represented in this system but
road is the dominant mode accounting for an estimated 53 percent of medium-
and long-distance freight transport and 88 percent of passenger traffic. In
general, the modes tend to complement one another; only in Java and in a few
corridors in other regions is there inter-modal competition. There is scope
for considerable improvement in the efficiency of the Indonesian
transportation sector (para. 1.6). In the near future, given budget
constrairts, this will be the sector's main challenge if it is to satisfy the
rapidly growing and diversifying demands of the Indonesian economy.
B. Sector Orasnization
1.4       Indonesia has a unitary form of government, with four main
administrative levels: central, provincial (with 27 provinces including
Jakarta), district (with 242 rural districts, called kabupatens, and 54 urban
districts, called kotamadyas), and village. At the central level, four
agencies play a key role in the transport sector. The Ministry of Public
Works (MPW), through its Directorate General of Highways (DGH), is responsible
for administration of national roads, operational and technical policies and
guidelines as well as general planning for all roads, and execution of all
projects funded under the central budget. The Ministry of Communication (MOC)
is responsible for setting and enforcing regulations for all transport
services, and providing the infrastructure and many of the services for the
air, sea, inland water and rail transport modes either directly or through
3l                                                   I 



-2-
public onterprises (PEs). In particular, MOC's Directorate General of Land
Communications (DGLC) has responsibility for regulating road transport. The
Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is responsible for coordination and
administrative supervision of lover levels governments. Finally, the National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) has werall respoisibility for
preparation and supervision of execution of the annual development budget and
five-year development plan (REPELITA). Other agencies (for example the
Ministries of Finance and Industry) also play an important role on specific
matters. Devolution of central government reeponsibilities to lower level
governments, whenever better suitn_d and adequately equipped for given tasks,
is an important objective in Indonesia and takes place under the forms of
decentralization, deconcentration and co-administration. Practical
arrangements are varied, often complex, cometimes amtiguous. The provincial
and kabupaten/kotamadya governments are thus in charge of regional and local
roads, although many of the expenditures on these roads are still directly
financed from the Central Government with shared or decentralized
implementation depGnding on the cases. These subnational levels of government
also have regulatory responsibilities which are shared with or delegated by
the central government. In addition, most central agencies have provincial
representation. The Governors in the provinces and the Bupatis and Walikotas
in the kabupatens and kotamadyas, respectively, are responsible for
coordinating government action at their respective levels, therefore being
agents of the entire government although administratively under MHA.
1.5       Many PEs are involved in the transport sector, providing
infrastructure and/or transport services. The most important ones are the
national airline (P.T. Garuda), the ports corporations (PERUMPELs), the
national railway (PERUMKA), the toll roads corporation (P.T. Jasa Marga), the
airport corporations (PAPs). several shipping lines (P.T. Jakarta Lloyd, P.T.
Pelni and P.T. Bahtera Adhiguna) and two bus companies (PPD and DAMRI). The
private sector is also important and growing. All road freight transport,
most inter-urban passenger services, and most inland watar and ferry services
are provided by private companies. The share of the private sector is also
dominant in international and domestic shipping and is growing, although from
a small base, in air transport. In addition, the Government is actively
promoting private sector provision of infrastructure mostly, at this time,
through build-operate transfer (BOT) schemes in toll roads, ports and urban
transportation infrastructure.
C. Sector Performance
1.6       In general, the transport sector has been able to meet the rapidly
growing transport needs of the economy at a reasonable financial cost to the
user. Yet, there are many inefriciencies in the sector which have serious
economic consequences in  '.e short and long-term.  In particular, despite
progress in the recent past, there are some major weaknesses in the incentive
syatems (especially, insufficient cost recovery in road and rail transport and
inappropriate content and enforcement of regulations in road and urban
transport), in the supply of infrastructure (especially, insufficient quality
of construction and level of maintenance of many facilities) and in the
organization, management, and staffing of government agencies and PEs. GOI
has been aware of most of these shortcomings and has taken important
corrective measures in recent years as described briefly in section D below
and, with more details for the road subsector, in Chapter II.



-3-
D. Government Obiectives ahnd Policies
1.7       GOI has consistently placed much importance in the past on the
transportation sector as a key means to promote economic growth (and
especially export growth), develop regional equity and national unity, and
ensure national security. In gpneral, GOI's emphasie has therefore been on
serving the needs of tItt prodt cAve sectors and improving access to isolated
parts of the country. The implemei.;:ation of these objectives has been pursued
through the funding af large expenditure programs, improvements in pricing and
regulations, and to a lesser extent, institutional development. Transport
expenditures as a share of the country's developmant expenditures have
increased dramatically from about 12 percent in the mid-1980s to about 22-25
percent in recent years, which makes transport the most important sector in
the development budget. Maint Ance -xpenditures, in particular for national
and provincial roads have recel    an inrcreasing share.  GOI has also taken
actions to improve the pricing of trap- ort services and the sector's
regulator7 framework. In particular, prices for freight services for road,
maritime and, to a large extent, rail transport, are now set by the market,
and almost all regulations which were hampering development of maritime
transport have been removed in two drastic packages of reforms in 1985 and
1988. Steps have also been taken continuously to improve the operational
efficiency of PEs and the allocation of rest nsibilities to and within
governmental ageincies. Despite these achievements, much remains to be done.
The ongoing Bank financed Highway Sector, First Jabotabek Urban Development,
Railway Technical Assistance, and National Ports Development Projects are
helping GOI address some of the key sector issues. The main purpose of the
proposed project is to continue improvement in the kabupaten road subsector.



-4-
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.1       Indonesia's public roads network has been expanded rapidly in recent
years, from about 136,000 km in 1979 to a total of about 250,000 km in 1990
(national roadst  17,500 km; provincial roads:  v5,100 km; kabupaten roads:
155*600 kmt munici1al roads: 36,100 km; and transmigration roads:  5,300 km;
see Annex 4 1/). This growth occurred mainly in the kabupaten roads (about
100 percent since 1980) and resulted more from absorption into the network of
exiiting but unclassified roads rather than from new construction, which has
been limited in the last several years as the emphasis for all road classes
has been on rehabilitation and improviment.
2.2       The condition of the network has improved steadily since its
rehabilitation began in the late 1960.k  In 1988, about 50 percent of the
total public roads network was reported paved (83 percent of natioral roads,
66 percent of provincial roads, 39 percent of kabupaten roads, se. Annex 5);
compared to about 33 percent in 1980. Condition surveys show that some 58
percent of the national and provincial road network is now in good and fair
condition (Annex 6). For kabupaten roads, however, available data suggest
that only some 30 to 40 percent may be in good and fair condition.
2.3       In addition to the public roads network, there are also eleven
sections of toll roads of 2-6 lanes, with a total length of 348 km, and four
toll bridges, with a total length of 1,800 m, being operated by PT Jasa Marga.
Construction of another three sections of about 105 km length is expected to
start soon. More than half of the length of toll roads serves the Jakarta
area and some sections are within the city. Other sections are bypasses of
important cities and a few are interurban. All toll roads are in Java, except
one in Sumatra. All of these roads are in good to excellent condition.
B. Road transport
Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
2.4       Vehicle Fleet.  There were about 8.9 million motor vehicles
registered by the end of 1990 ana about 32 percent (2.8 million) of these were
four-wheel vehicles. Commercial vehicles-buses and trucks-accounted for
53 percent of four-wheel motor vehicles with cars and pickups making up the
remainder (Annex 7). The fleet has grown rapidly in the last 15 years,
averaging around 11 percent growth between 1980 and 1990.
2.5       Traffic.  The high economic growth of the 1970. produced average
growth rates in traffic volumes as high as 20 percent per annum. During
1980-90, road traffic, excluding motorcycles, on national and provincial roads
grew by an average of six to seven percent per annum. Growth rates were
lowest in Java and Bali (6.5 percent) with higher rates in Sumat-a
(11 percent) and in parts of the outer islands. Average traffic levels on
most national roads are between 3,000 and 10,000 vehicles per day (vpd) while
1/   There are also unknown lengths of village roads and other unclassified
roads.



-5-
the large majority of provincial roads carry traffic volumes of less than
3.000 vpd. TI.e highest traffic flows occur on approach roads to Jakarta,
Surabaya and Bandung, where volumes range from 40,000 vpd to 110,000 vpd.
Road capacity problems are developing in some major corridors due in part to
traffic growth but also to interurban road capacities being reduced by
spreading urbanization and ribbon development. Available data on traffic on
kabupaten roads suggest levels of several hundred vpd in Java and Bali, one to
two hundred in the developed parts of the other islands, and up to fifty in
i,ne rest of the country. In addition, motorcycle and non-motorized traffic
can be very substantial.
Road Transport Industry and Rezulations
2.6       Truckinx.  Road transport is generally preferred to other modes for
the movement of non-bulk freight over short, medium and even long distances on
account of cost, speed and reliability considerations. Road transport
consists of pub) c carrier 'for hire' services (30 percent) and own-account
operations by private sector firms (45 percent) and Government corporations
(25 percent). The majority of for-hire operators own from one to five trucks,
but there are some large, privately owned fleets. Trucking companies require
an operator's licerse. For trucking operations across provincial boundaries
in Java, a route license is also required. In practice, many regulations
concerning road transport are obsolete and often poorly enforced. Tariffs for
"for-hire" trucking are no longer regulated and vary considerably depending on
factors such as commodity type, availability of return load, and route.
2.7       The ease of entry into the trucking market, the relatively flexible
enforcement of regulations, and the relaxation of tariff restrictions a few
years ago have generated conditions (in particular competition) such that the
service to users is perceived as good and responsive. From the broader
economic point of view, however, the trucking industry is not as efficient as
it could be. First, Indonesia is not taking full advantage of the important
efficiency gains which could be derived from the greater use of large multi-
axled trucks operating on an adequately built and maintained network. Second,
overloading (mainly of 2-axle trucks) beyond the structural capacity of
existing roads is relatively widespread causing serious road damage and
economic costs which are not borne by the industry. These deficiencies are
mainly the result of the poor system of road user taxation and the inadequacy
and poor enforcement of vehicle weight and dimension regulations. GOI is
addressing them in a variety of ways (para. 2.29).
2.8       Bus Services.  Interurban bus services are mainly operated by the
private sector and are reasonably efficient. On the trunk routes, services
are frequent and fast given variable road conditions. There is justified
concern, however, over safety standards. Tariffs are regulated but this has
generally not been a major problem and companies compete on quality of
service. Urban bus services--whether operated by the public or private sector-
suffer frow many shortcomings. Speeds are slow, breakdowns are common, and
buses are oiten crowded during peak hours. These problems are beginning to be
addressed with assistance in particular from the Bank's urban transport
projects.



-6-
Road Uger Taxation
2.9       Indonesia applies all three main forms of road user taxes:
(i) purchase related (import duty, VAT and, in some instances, luxury goods
sales tax on new vehicles, and ownership transfer tax when vehicles change
hands); (ii) ownership related (the annual registration fee); (iii) use
related (import duty and VAT on spare parts, tires, and lubricants, implicit
tax element on the pump price of gasoline, and toll fees). In the past, total
Government revenues from road users have not covered total expenditures on
roads except in FY1986/87, despite the substantial level of taxes raised from
car users. Moreover, trucks and, to a lesser extent, buses, which cause most
of the road damage and require the construction of higher standards roads,
contribute very little, if any, to their marginal attributable cost of road
deterioration and congestion. This distortion, which is a long-standing
feature of the road user taxation system in Indonesia, mainly arises from the
fact that the incentive aspects of cost recovery have so far only played a
minimal role in road taxation policies. Decisions on the structure and level
of road user taxes have been made primarily on grounds of resource
mobilization, trade and industrial policy, anti-inflation policies and
perceived ability to pay. An important reason for this is that decisions on
the various road user taxes are made by different Government departments which
have not been sufficiently well coordinated in the past.
2.10      Two prin-zpal measures are required to correct this situation.
First, the diesel oil price needs to be raised to cover at least border price,
transportation and distribution costs plus a minimum road user tax element.
Second, the annual vehicle registration tax on trucks needs to be restructured
and its general level increased so that it becomes better related to the
actual road deterioration caused by various types of trucks, provides a
disincentive against the use of categories of trucks that are most likely to
be overloaded, and, together with the road user tax element on diesel, ensures
adequate cost recovery. Basic studies outlining the required changes have
been completed recently. GOI has also begun to tackle the implementation
aspects (para. 2.29).
Traffic Safetv
2.11      Road traffic accidents are a serious socioeconomic problem in
Indonesia. The limited data available indicate about 11,OCO fatalities
annually with nearly 50,000 people seriously injured. Although fatality rates
seem to have been declining recently, they are still much higher than in most
industrialized countries. Studies financed under previous Bank highway
projects have identified the major causes as: inadequacies in laws and
regulations regarding vehicles and traffic, deficiencies in their enforcement,
and deficiencies in the standards and condition of roads. These problems are
recognized and GOI has now begun to address the most critical road safety
issues (para. 2.29).
C. Road Infrastructure
Institutional Aspects
2.12      Allocation of Responsibilities Between Government Agencies.  Main
responsibilities for the various government functions related to the road
network are defined in a vast number of laws and regulations. The public



-7-
works agencies of the various levels of government in Indonesia are
responsible in general for the administraticn of the road network and, in
particular, for the planning/programming, design and implementation of road
works. The Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of NPW is the road agency at
the central level (Chart 1), while agencies at lower levels are the Provincial
Public Works Office (DPUP - Chart 3) 2/ and the Kabupaten/Kotamadya Public
Works Office (DPUK - Chart 4). In principle, DGH, DPUPs and DPUKs are
responsible for national, provin:-ial and kabupaten/kotamadya roads,
respectively. DGH is also responsible for setting policies, procedures and
guidelines concerning the planning and implementation of all road programs and
assisting and supervising provincial and local agencies in their use. In
practice, this clear, decentralized approach has only partially been
implemented so far and the degree of actual implementation depends in most
cases on the capabilities of the various provincial and local agencies. As a
result, responsibilities are often mixed and lines of authority sometimes
unclear. DGH is, for example, still used by the central government to channel
directly some of its funding to provincial and kotamadya governments and
therefore, much involved in the planning and implementation of these
governments' road programs. On the other side, the planning and
implementation of maintenance of national roads is now delegated to the DPUPs,
with DGH playing more of a guiding role.
2.13      The Directorate General of Regional Development (DGRD - Chart 2) and
the Directorate General of General Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD)
of MRA also play a substantial role in the road sector.  With thi4r
corresponding agencies at provincial and kabupaten/kotamadya leveis, DGRD and
PUOD are, in particular, responsible for regulating and monitoring the
nontechnical aspects of central government's grant programs (Inpres programs)
to lower level governments, for regulating staffing and salaries, and for the
appointment and supervision of provincial and local governments' senior
officials.
2.14      Although the distinction between the technical role of the Public
Works agencies and the nontechnical or administrative role of the Home Affairs
agencies is clear in principle, there have been many ambiguities and
inefficiencies in practice. The problem has been most serious for kabupaten
roads. First, the technical role of DGH and the DPUPs (to which DGH has
delegated part of its role of assistance and supervision of kabupaten
governments) was not fully recognized until recently by all parties involved.
Second, DGH and the DPUPs have tried only partially to exercise their role in
the recent past; they have focussed on national and provincial roads and have
not had sufficient capability to work with kabupaten governments. As a
result, these have not been adequately supervised nor held accountable for the
technical aspects of their road programs, although by far the most important.
Improvements in general organization have been underway for several years
though. DGH and the DPUPs now play an increasingly active role in the
kabupaten roads subsector. In particular, a detailed allocation of
responsibilities which provides for more effective management of kabupaten
road programs (in particular through clearer and better definition of the
respective roles of the Public Works and Home Affairs agencies) has recently
been informally agreed (para. 4.20); it shoule be formalized as soon as some
ai   In some larger provinceso, separate provincial agencies have been
established for the various public works sectors. In such cases, there
is a separate provincial road department (DBM).



experience is gained in its application. Special provincial units for
assisting local governments in their road programs (PBPJKs), headed by DPUP
staff, have also been established in all provinces. These units have
increased DPUPs' capabilities and created an effective link between DGH and
the kabupatens.
2.15      Staffing.  The rapidly increasing volume of work of the past five
years and the much higher complexity of the engineering and implementation
processes required for increasing the efficiency and quality of road works
programs have resulted in a serious staffing problem for DGH, the DPUPs and
especially the DPUKe. DGH has about 5,000 permanent and temporary staff,
about 1,200 of which are engineers. Traditionally, many have been seconded to
DPUPs. Recently, DGH has also started to recruit young engineers and second
them to DPUKs. This was an important progress since DGH can recruit better
people than the provincial and kabupaten administrations because of the better
career prospects that it offers. There is no reliable estimate of the number
of staff working at DPUP and DPUK level on road works programs, but it is
likely to be well above 15,000. In addition, many local consultants are
involved in design and supervision activities. In general, promotion criteria
and the culture of the institutions emphasize administrative skills, which are
in general well developed. On the contrary, technical skills, particularly
regarding engineering and implementation of works, need urgently to be
upgraded. This need is especially felt at DPUK level where the acute shortage
of skilled staff now makes it very difficult to improve the quality of
planning and construction as much as required. Over the long term, the
conditions of civil service will also need to be overhauled as current
conditions are proving to be a major constraint to recruit and retain higher
quality people.
2.16      Training.  As road agencies have concentrated all their attention in
the past on improving the quality of the road network, long term manpower
development has been relatively neglected. Technical training of road staff
is mainly the responsibility of PUSDIKLAT, the main training unit of MPW, and
its specialized road section, DIKLAT Bina Marga, which has a close technical
relationship with DGH from which it receives part of its budget. Some non-
technical training is also provided by MBA to DPUP and DPUK staff. In
general, there are serious weaknesses with the training programs for road
staff. Given that training is funded under many different sources with
various, sometimes unconnected implementation arrangements, approaches are not
standardized. There is also no estimate of total training performed annually,
although the numbers may be substantial, mainly for DGH and DPUP staff. In
addition, although training programs are usually initiated to fill a perceived
gap in qualifications, they are not yet systematically related to needs.
Furthermore, DIKLAT Bina Marga is understaffed and the personnel units of the
DPUPs on which it needs to rely to implement training at that level require
much development. As the road agencies, under DGH's lead, are becoming more
mature, manpower development is being given increasing attention. In
particular, a major step was taken recently with the preparation of a
comprehensive analysis of training needs for kabupaten road staff and, on this
basis, of a five year Kabupaten Road Master Training Plan (KRMTP) which has
defined training activities responsive to needs and a detailed implementation
strategy. Implementation of the priority parts of KRMTP is an important
component of the project.



Plannina/ProgramminR/Budfeting (PPB) and Expenditures
2.17      The Annual PPB Process.  The main characteristics of the PPB process
in Indonesia are its bottom-up approach and the variety of funding sources for
development expenditures. Annual road works programs and budgets are prepared
through a series of meetings from about June to November each year at village,
kabupaten/kotamadya, provincial, and national levels to review budget
proposals in a progressively more comprehensive context. On this basis, the
road components of the national development budget are prepared and budget
envelopes are announced early January for each of the main funding programs
and subsequently for each province and kabupaten/kotamadya. Coordination
meetings are then held to firm up lists of approved road works- This process
is somewhat cumbersome and time consuming, but it ensures that information on
expenditure needs and locally perceived priorities filters up to senior
decision makers and that a consensus is reached between all parties involved.
2.18      A relatively large number of funding programs are used to channel
resources to various sectors and levels of government. While DGH's own budget
is the only source of funds for national roads, works on provincial and
kabupaten/kotamadya roads may be funded through (a) block grants received from
central government (Inpres Dati I and II), (b) earmarked central government
grants for road rehabilitation (IPJP and IPJK), (c) DGH's own budget, and
(d) the provincial and local governments' own resources. Foreign aid is
channelled mainly through (c) for provincial roads and (a) and (b) for
kabupaten/kotamadya roads and has often been used informally by central
government to influence the selection of priorities at provincial and local
levels. Given that different guidelines and types of control apply to each
funding program, there is a great risk of distortion in the PPB process. This
risk is well addressed for national and provincial roads by the preparation of
an integrated draft work program (Satuan III) which deE.s with all types of
road works, including maintenance, and all sources of funCs. There is not
such a document yet for kabupaten roads but it is expected that it would be
developed during the implementation period of the proposed project. As a
first step, DGH has agreed that the IPJK, which funds about 60 percent of all
road works on kabupaten roads, would also be used for periodic maintenance
starting in FY 1992/93.
2.19      Various methods are used to assess quantitatively the economic
priority of proposed road works. The methods used for programming
maintenance, rehabilitation and minor improvement works on national and
provincial roads include an extensive annual data collection and sophisticated
computer programs which incorporate, in particular, the Bank's Highway Design
Model. These methods are exemplary by international standards. As DGH and
provincial staff are becoming more adept in their use, they are bringing a
much higher degree of rationality in the PPB process on national and
provincial roads. A different approach, based on specific feasibility
studies, is also being developed for major improvement and construction works.
On kabupaten roads, systematic programming methods are in place only for
rehabilitation/improvement works. These methods, which are discussed in
Chapter V, are much more simple, although economically sound and adapted to
the limited capability of staff at local level. They have been applied in 75
kabupatens since 1988 under the Bank-assisted Second Rural Roads Development
Project and were generalized to the entire country in 1990. Much support is
still necessary, however, to assist kabupatens in their use and DGH in its
control and evaluation. The project will provide such support. Until
recently, methods used for preparing maintenance programs on kabupaten roads



- 10 -
were incomplete and, in any case, often not applied systematically despite the
progress achieved under the Second Rural Roads Development Project. Partly
for this reason, the funding of maintenance has generally been inadequate
(para. 2.20). These methods have been improved, however, during the
preparation of the project, including a field test, and are ready to be
applied on a large number of kabupatens, vhich will be done as part of the
projecL. It is expected that, as experience is gained, the methods will be
continuously improved and this is also supported by the project.
2.20      Ex2enditures.  GOI has given high priority to the funding of road
expenditures in recent years. The increase has been striking, from about Rp
875 billion3/ in 1985/86 to about Rp 3,810 billion in 1991/92, including all
sources of funds, an increase of about 340 percent in nominal terms and
190 percent in real terms. Thus, total budget allocations to the road
subsector have reached close to 20 percent of the national development budget.
During this period, the expenditures on kabupaten roads have increased
proportionately slightly less, from about Rp 290 billion in 1985/86 to about
Rp 1,160 billion in 1991/92. Expenditures on national and provincial roads
have mainly been for rehabilitation/improvement of the existing network and
for maintenance. Only few roads have been added to the national and
provincial road network. An important feature has been the large increase in
maintenance funding to levels which are adequate to satisfy the full routine
and periodic needs. For kabupaten roads, on the other hand, most of the
expenditures ha'i  been for rehabilitation/improvement of the network,
including in particular many village roads and roads built under area
development schemes (such as transmigration projects) which have been absorbed
in the kabupaten road network. On the whole, despite progress achieved under
foreign funded projects, maintenance of kabupaten roads has been neglected,
with the consequence that many roads, which *e e in general poorly
constructed, have deteriorated very quickly. GOI has recognized this issue
and taken initiatives, within constraints of the budget system, so that the
funding of maintenance is increased, particularly out of the Inpres Dati II
block grant. In parallel, measures are taken to improve maintenance
programming methods (para. 2.19) and execution of works (para. 2.24). A main
objective of the project is to assist the 73 project kabupatens increase the
funding of maintenance from about 30 percent of the needs of their
maintainable networ'- at the present time to 100 percent in FY 1994/95. In the
long term, it will also be important to stabilize and possibly decrease the
size of the kabupaten road network to a level consistent with the capability
of kabupaten governments to fund maintenance. The project includes a study to
this effect.
Technical Asvects
2.21      Technoloeies and Design.  There is a very large variety in the
technologies and the design processes used in the road subsector in Indonesia,
ranging from the most modern approaches to obsolete techniques. In general,
the approaches used on national and provincial roads are sound and well
adapted to Indonesia's capabilities in terms of administration, contracting
industry, and natural resources. Pavements generally consist of one or
several asphalt concrete layers placed on an old pavement or on crushed
aggregate base and sub-base. Indonesia, as a tropical country, has been a
3/ With the exception of expenditures on toll roads.



- 11 -
pioneer in the use of high bitumen content, gap graded asphalt concrete, a
technology particularly well adapted to its circumstances. Cement
stabilization for base layers and bituminous surface treatment as a wearing
course are also used depending on contractors' skills and the availability of
construction materials. In addition, efforts have been underway for many
years to use under a variety of techniques the natural rock asphalt from South
East Sulawesi. Designs for maintenance and rehabilitation works are prepared
at provincial level with the assistance of an advanced computer model.
Designs for major improvement and construction works are prepared at central
level, sometimes with the assistance of consultants.
2.22      The situation is a lot more problematic for kabupater roads, where
the choice of technology and the designs could often be much better.
Penetration macadam overlays are used for sealed roads in general. This old
labor-intensive technology is well adapted to available resources in many
parts of Indonesia but in most cases it is poorly implemented (para. 2.24).
It should be used in conjunction with more modern technologies (bitumen
emulsions for example) and better execution methods. Some of the gravel roads
also use a Telford pavement, consisting of large flat stones, an ancient
technique that should be abandoned. In general, moreover, designs are
prepared on the basis of inadequate surveys and standard drawings, and are
often not adapted to site conditions and available materials. Many of these
problems have been tackled, however, and improvements are being implemented.
In particular, detailed technical guidelines for all engineering aspects of
road works (including bridges) have been prepared by DGH (see Project File)
and are being disseminated to all kabupatens. The PBPJKs are now assisting
and checking the preparation of designs by staff of DPUKs. In addition,
specifications have been prepared for more modern technologies (such as
bitumen emulsions) and private firms have been encouraged to invest in
production and distribution facilities whenever possible. Furthermore, an
action plan for technology development and dissemination has been prepared
which is expected to be implemented as part of a subsequent project proposed
for Bank financing, the East Indonesia Kabupaten Roads (KREI) Project.
2.23      Tenderin,. Construction and SuDervision.  Much progress has been
achieved in the past ten years in this area for national and provincial roads.
All periodic maintenance and rehabilitation/improvement works are now carried
out by private contractors. Standard contractor pre-qualification procedures
and bidding and contract documents, which are satisfactory although still in
need of a few major improvements, have been developed and used nationwide.
The average size of contracts has also been much increased and multi-year
contracts are now commonly used for all works. Supervision is in general done
by consultants. Yet, in general, the quality of construction remains
unsatisfactory, mainly because of the weakness of the contracting industry and
inadequate quality control. Also, a "quality culture" is only now taking root
throughout the road agencies. DGH is aware of these issues and is now
addressing them.
2.24      In this area as in the area of technology and design, problems are a
lot more acute for kabupaten roads despite commendable progress achieved
recently, in particular in the context of the Second Rural Roads Development
Project. Most aspects of road works implementation have serious weaknesses



- 12 -
that too often result in a product of poor-quality and short economic
life.4/ Tendering is not efficient. Contract documents place an
unreasonable burden on the contractors. Contracts are often for very small
works (with a cost below US$250,000) and of a short duration (less than nine
months in most cases). Contractors are too dependent on poor quality
equipment supplied by the public sector. Supervision is inadequate and
contract specifications are often not adequately enforced. These problems are
now being recognized, especially since DGH and the DPUPs have begun to play a
more substantial role in the preparation and implementation of kabupaten road
works programs. As a result, improvements in human resources and organizatio..
at kabupaten level are beginning to be a priority, and the need for assistance
and supervision by DPUPs and DGH is now acknowledged. More specifically, the
technical guidelines mentioned in para. 2.22 include guidelines on execution
of works and quality control. Better procedures for contracting road works
(including better contractor prequalification procedures and standard bidding
documents) have also been formulated. One of the main objectives of the
project is to introduce these improvements in the 73 project kabupatens.
2.25      Domestic Construction Industrv.  Until the early 1980s, Indonesia
only had a relatively small number of experienced contracting firms capable of
executing major road works, and therefore, DGH used mainly foreign contractors
for such jobs. Since then, local capability has developed so that there are
now about 500 class "A" (with no upper limit of contract price) and several
thousand class "B" (eligible to bid on contracts up to Rp 500 million
(US$250,000)) domestic contracting firms registered in Indonesia. In
addition, there are many thousands of small contractors, registered as class
"C" (eligibility ceiling of Rp 100 million (US$50,000)) carrying out small
contracts and providing unskilled labor and production and transportation of
materials for larger contractors and government agencies. GOI has long
recognized the need to improve the capabilities of domestic contractors.
Several studies carried out in recent years have highlighted the sector's main
weaknesses: (a) shortage of skilled manpower and insufficient organization
and technical capabilities of most contractors; (b) poor contractor selection,
contract administration and supervision procedures, in general, as well as
insufficient size and duration of contracts; (c) weak support institutions
within GOI and llmited role played by the two main contractors associations;
and (d) some inadequacies ir the business environment (particularly in the
areas of finance, insurance, equipment, and standards). GOI has taken actions
to address some of these problems such as setting up and delivering some
training programs for the personnel of contractors and supervision
consultants, providing technical assistance to contractors under several
foreign funded projects, including road projects, and improving the system for
licensing contractors. A more comprehensive approach is needed, however, and
this has been the subject of a regular dialogue between GOI and the Bank, to
which the associations of contractors have also contributed. In the short to
medium term, step-by-step improvements should be sought in the context of
specific sectors. The proposed project includes such improvements
(para. 2.24).
4/ As shown by past Bank experience and a 1991 study of contractor
performance prepared under the USAID-financed Rural Roads Maintenance
System Project (see Project File).



- 13 -
Environmental AsDects
2.26      Indonesia has established a significant body of laws and regulations
for the protection of the environment which provides a framework for specific
guidelines and institutional development measures now being implemented by
sector ministries. Of particular importance for the infrastructure sectors
are the regulations ... the analysis of environmental impacts (AMDAL).  In
recent years, MPW has much developed its capability to implement AMDAL
regulations with substantial assistance from ADB in particular. In 1989 and
1990, a series of guidelines and directives on the environmental evaluation
and control of all types of public works projects were developed in MPW. In
1991, detailed draft manuals for implementing these guidelines, covering all
phases of the project cycle, have also been prepared for the road subsector.
In addition, some substantial training of staff has been provided to MPW and
DGH. As a result, a sound basis is now available to MPW and DGH for assessing
and controlling the environmental impacts of road works.
2.27      Vehicle emission control, including the setting of standards and
implementation of programs form part of GOI's general air pollution monitoring
and control efforts. With assistance provided under the Bank-assisted First
Jabotabek Urban Development Project, monitoring of vehicle-related air
pollution has been initiated and, on this basis, a national strategy for
controlling vehicle emission is being developed.
D. Policy Statement and Action Plan for Road Infrastructure and
Road Traffic and Transport
Background and Description
2.28      The Policy Statement and Action Plan for Road Infrastructure and
Road Traffic and Transport (PSAP) issued in October 1989 is GOI's main program
for improving incentives, regulations, and performance of institutions in the
subsector.  The Policy Statement itself covers all major policy matters -i the
subsector and proposes adequate policy guidelines and reforms concerning in
particular: (a) laws and regulations on road traffic and transport; (b)
development of subsector institutions; (c) transport sector policy formulation
and planning; (d) planning and execution of road works; (e) road user
taxation; (f) vehicle weights and dimensions regulations; and (g) road safety.
Since it was issued, the Policy Statement has been the reference for GOI's
main initiatives in the subsector. It remains an adequate guide for further
progress in future years and GOI is committed to its content. The Policy
Statement was complemented by an Action Plan which set out the detailed step-
by-step actions which GOI expected to take in the following three years to
implement the Policy Statement. It includes the following: (a) finalization
and submission to Parliament of a new draft transport law; (b) finalization of
new draft regu:ations on road traffic and transport matters; (c)
decentralization to provincial and local governments of the responsibility to
implement road traffic and transport regulations; (d) preparation of measures
for the institutional development of DGLC and of provincial and local road
traffic and transport units; (e) execution of various sector planning studies
including a national origin/destination (OD) survey; (f) improvement of
procedures and guidelines used on national and provincial roads for the
planning/programming, design, implementation and monitoring of road works, and
for taking account of environmental impact, (g) formulation of a strategy to
improve road user taxation and implementation of key first steps, particularly



- 14 -
regarding the vehicle registration tax; (h) preparation and implementation of
new regulations on vehicle weights and dimensions and of measures to improve
enforcement; and (i) preparation and implementation, whenever possible, of
selected key measures to improve road safety.
Main Achievements
2.29      In general, progress in implementation of the Action Plan has been
sati3factory. GOI has initiated action in all the areas covered in the Plan,
although some of them are politically sensitive and/or require complex
preparation and consultation, and there have been some substantial
achievements. First, progress in improving the road transport regulatory
framework has been important. A new transport law has been prepared and
approved by the Parliament and draft implementing regulations have been
finalized. A government decision to decentralize the implementation of
traffic and transport regulations has also been enacted and is being
implemented. In addition, restrictions on the movement of containers by road
have been removed and draft new regulations on vehicle weights and dimensions
have been prepared. Measures for their implementation, including enforcement,
are now being formulated and there is progrePs on the definition of a network
of key "freight" routes. Second, progress has also been satisfactory
regarding road works planning and execution. Improved procedures and
guidelines have in particular been put in place for road works planning/
programming and formulated for environmental impact assessment. Third, some
progress has occurred, although below expectation, regarding road user
taxation (RUT). An inter-ministerial team has prepared proposals for
rationalizing the RUT regime. These proposals provide a basis for revising
the structure and the level of the vehicle registration tax. Also, since the
Plan was issued, the price of gasoline and diesel oil has been increased twice
by a total of about 30 percent in real terms. This improved substantially
total cost recovery. However, since diesel oil remains subsidized, (when its
price is compared to its actual resource cost) this addressed only partially
the issue of insufficient cost recovery from truckers. Fourth, GOI has also
taken or at least initiated action on the other parts of the Plan. The
national OD survey has been carried out to acceptable standards. Major
studies are also well underway regarding land transport planning and the
institutional development of DGLC. In addition, substantial funding has been
provided in GOI 1991/92 budget to start removing some of the country's worst
safety black spots, a modern system for accident data reporting is being
implemented, and a systematic review of road safety measures has recently
started.



- 15 -
III. PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE ROAD SUBSECTOR AND LESSOIS LEARNED
A. Past Bank Involvement
3.1       The Bank has had a substantial involvement in the transport sector
of Indonesia over the past two decades. It has financed four maritime
transport projects (two shipping and two ports projects), two railway
projects, two fertilizer distribution projects, and eleven road projects.
Bank involvement has been particularly important in the road subsector, with
total lending of about US$1,600 million since 1969, corresponding, in
particular, to disbursements of about US$1,200 million since the early 1980s
or about 12 percent of all GOI expenditures (from local and foreign sources)
on the road network. Nine of the road projects have been completed. The
Highway Sector Project (FY90) and the Second Rural Roads Development Project
(FY88) are still ongoing. PPARs have been issued for the Second and Third
Highway Projects in 1980 and for the Fifth Highway Project in 1989. PCRs have
also been issued for the Fourth Highway Project in 1985 and for the First
Rural Roads Development, Highway Betterment, Jakarta-Cikampek, and Highway
Maintenance and Betterment Projects between 1989 and 1991. In addition,
sector reports have been prepared at different times; most recently, a highway
maintenance review was discussed with GOI in October 1988. The experience
under the road projects is briefly reviewed below.
3.2       All road projects have had bioadly similar objectives.  They aimed
at: (i) improving the quality of the network through road construction,
improvement, rehabilitation, and maintenance, with the emphasis during the
past ten years being to a very large extent on the last two; (ii) developing
the capability of road agencies through technical support and training of
staff as well as through improvements in planning/programming systems, in
technologies, and in procedures and guidelines for preparing, implementing and
monitoring road works; and (iii) improving the incentives and regulations for
road transport and their enforcement. The emphasis given to these objectives
differed substantially between projects, however. The toll road project
(Jakarts-Cikampek Project) and the iabupaten roads projects (First and Second
Rural Roads Development Projects) focused on the problems of corresponding
parts of the road network. The other projects shifted gradually from a focus
on national roads, civil works, and DGH organization to a broader concern for
the entire national and provincial road network, detailed improvements in the
functioning of all road agencies, and to varying degrees, incentives and
regulations pertaining to road transport.
B. Main Lessons Learned
3.3       Civil Works.  In general, civil works programs have been implemented
satisfactorily in terms of timeliness but with uneven results in terms of
quality of construction. An obvious lesson has been that projects with road
works well prepared and implementation initiated by the time of loan approval,
have gone ahead about on schedule, When, because of a sector approach or
insufficient preparation, the composition of the civil works program was not
ready early on and/or extensive reviews were necessary, for example for the
formulation of subsequent phases of the program, delays have occurred. On the
whole, the major reason for delays has been that the planning/programming and
engineering capability of DGH has improved only gradually and that, with
steadily increasing allocation of funds during the 1980s, this capability has



- 16 -
often been over-stretched. In the Second Rural Roads Development Project,
annual planning/programming of works has been initiated well ahead of time
every year and decisions on priorities confined to one main review in the
context of the budget process (rather than spread over the entire year with no
precise relationship to the budget process as in many donor assisted road
projects) and, as a result, project implementation has been timely despite the
subsector approach. This will be replicated with further improvements, in the
proposed project.
3.4       Quality of construction has been uneven mainly because of deep-
seated problems discussed in paras. 2.21 to 2.25 above. Results have been
especially poor in projects which included a large number of small contracts
with weak implementation arrangements as in the First Rural Roads Development
Project and in the first maintenance ccuponent of the Highway Maintenance and
Betterment Project. Experience in the two follow up projects (Second Rural
Roads Development and Highway Sector Projects) has shown that with better
implementation processes, including in particular intensive supervision,
better results could be achieved. As a result, preparation of the proposed
project has focussed, inter alia, on devising and agreeing with GOI further
improvements in implementation arrangements. A main objective of the
project's supervision should also be to ensure that these arrangements are
properly applied by all kabupatens and the results monitored and evaluated.
3.5       Through its projects' civil works programs as well as loan
conditions, the Bank has also tried to steer GOI towards a greater funding and
better execution of maintenance. Experience has shown that conditionality by
itself cannot work, mainly because of entrenched habits, especially among
provincial and local governments, and the difficulty of preparing and
implementing maintenance programs satisfactorily. Starting in 1987 with the
Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project, the Bank, therefore, undertook to
finance maintenance on national and provincial roads as well as the technical
support and the supervision needed to make it successful. This helped GOI
increase the funding of maintenance dramatically and obtain satisfactory
results with it. Other factors contributing to success were that the previous
project (as well as an ADB TA project) had helped set up better programming
procedures for maintenance and that maintenance was the project's main
objective and, therefore, received considerable attention. The experience
with the Second Rural Roads Development Project has confirmed this lesson. It
has shown that increased funding is not sufficient to achieve success;
procedures for preparing and supervising maintenance programs adequately also
need to be in place and maintenance must be a priority of supervisory and
kabupaten staff. The proposed project takes account of this experience:
improved maintenance has been made the project's first objective, satisfactory
procedures are in place, and adequate technical support and substantial
financing will be provided.
3.6       Institutional and Technical Developments.  Success, in terms of
improving the performance of the agencies involved in the preparation and
implementation of road works programs, has been mixed. Overall, these
agencies are much more capable today than they were in the early 1980s, which
has allowed GOI to extend the scope and complexity of its activities. Yet,
progress (which has been led by GOI, with the Bank bringing mainly advice and
assistance in implementation) has often been frustrating, slower than
expected, and in many cases, incomplete. The main lesson of experience has
been that major improvements of an institutional or technical nature require
(a) eonsiderable staff resources over a long period of time (from GOI and



- 17 -
their consultants as well as Bank staff), (b) the preparation of detailed
implementation arrangements, (c) continuous attention by decision makers, and
(d) a flexible approach so that improvements take account of and are well
integrated into GOI's normal systems and procedures. Only a limited number of
objectives can and should therefore be pursued at any point of time and the
Bank should select very carefully the few institutional objectives of any
single project. For this reason, the proposed project's institutional
objectives have been limited as much as possible to a few key areas with
precise measures agreed with GOI from the outset and adequate resources
supplied for implementation.
3.7       The development of human resources through training has also been
only partly successful. Training programs have been implemented, often with
delays, buz the impact on the overall institutional performance has been
unclear mainly because the selection of training activities included in the
projects as well as their content often did not address many of the agencies'
priority needs. This lesson has been taken into account. GOI has agreed to
prepare a detailed analysis of training needs of kaoupaten road staff and a
comprehensive training plan as a basis of the training component of the
proposed project
3.8       Improvements in Incentives and Reaulations for Road Transport.  On
the whole, progress has been slow with project activities aimed at improving
incentives and regulations as well as with the Bank parallel dialogue with GOI
in this area. There are two main reasons for this. First, concerning road
user taxation, although the various aspects of this issuw have been understood
and solutions formulated as part of the Bank's road projects, such projects
may not have been appropriate vehicles for implementing action, given that in
the Indonesian context, energy pricing policies and other economic and
political concerns have been considered more important than efficiency within
the transport sector. The results achieved recently (para. 2.29) may be
linked with the dialogue in those areas rather than on transport policies.
Second, the slowness in achieving progress in road transport regulations has
been due mainly to the lack, until recently, of a thorough understanding of
the key reasons of observed problems, the lack of detailed implementation
plans, and, possibly, the insufficient concern from MOC. In addition, staff
resources allocated to this subject have been inadequate as experience has
shown repeatedly that projects' physical implementation and, to a lesser
extent, institutional objectives tend to dominate the attention of GOI and
Bank staff once a project is under way. These lessons have been taken into
account in the design of the FY90 Highway Sector Project, for which a detailed
action plan for improving, inter alia, incentives and regulations has been
agreed with GOI and has been a main focus of supervision. A review of the
plan's achievements to date is in paragraph 2.29. Further progress should be
pursued in the context of another sector project as well as through dialogue
at macro level. A Second Highway Sector Project is under preparation.



- 18 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Oblectives
4.1       The principal objectives of the project are to improve access to the
main economic centers in 73 kabupatens in nine provinces (Weut Java, West
Kalimantan and all provinces of Sumatra except Riau) and to increase the
capability of all agencies in the country dealing with kabupaten roads. More
specifically, the project aims at: (a) improving systems and procedures for
road maintenance and ensuring that the maintainable network of all project-
assisted kabupatens (about 25,000 km) is satisfectorily maintained;
(b) rehabilitating/improving about 4,200 km of roads; (c) improving the
capability of staff involved in the subsector nationwide at all levels; and
(d) strengthening institutional arrangements and improving the technical
environment for planning and implementing kabupaten road works programs. The
list of 73 project-assisted kabupatens is ir. Annex 8, with some basic data on
their road network. The kabupatens were seiected by GOI in coordination with
projects financed by other donors. The Bank will be the only source of
foreign funding for kabupaten roads in the project's nine provinces and all
kabupatens of each province will participate in the project. An additional 45
kabupa ens, most of Indonesia's eastern region, are expected to be covered by
the forthcoming Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads (RREI) Project.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.2       Continued Bank support to the kabupaten road subsector is needed for
the following reasons: (a) good access is a prerequisite for most development
activities in rural areas and is particularly important to reduce rural
poverty; (b) a sizable part of GOI's development budget is now aimed at
improving kabupaten roads and it is important that these funds be used as
efficiently as possible and that the onvironmental impacts be addressed
systematically; (c) the Bank can provide key assistance to GOI in the
formulation and implementation of institutional and technical improvements at
subsector level, especially in view of GOI's shortage of expertise; and
(d) Bank's involvement can help GOI give high priority to road maintenance and
less emphasis to meeting the ambitious physical targets set in REPELITA V for
rehabilitation/improvement of the kabupaten road network.
C. Project Description
4.3       The project will have the following main components:
(a)  a road network improvement and maintenance component, comprising:
(i) routine and periodic maintenance of the entire kabupaten road
network as well as rehabilitation/improvement of selected roads in
the 73 project-assisted kabupatens o'er three GOI fiscal years
starting in 1992/93 (except in the eight kabupatens of South Sumatra
where the project will start in 1993/94); (ii) workshops and
labor&cories upgrading and equipping; (iii) provision of equipment,
spare parts, and supplies; and (iv) supervision of works.



- 19 -
(b) a training component, including detailed preparation and
implementation of priority parts of a nationwide training program
for kabupaten road staff based on a comprehensive training needs
analysist and
(c) technical assistance and studies for strengthening systems and
procedures nationwide regarding planning, environmental analysis,
and implementation of road works, and for helping GOI central
agencies in monitoring project execution.
D. Road Network Imrrovement and Maintenance
Maintenance
4.4       Despite the efforts made during the Second Rural Roads Development
Project, road maintenance remains inadequate due to the lack of understanding
and implementation capacity at local level, and the poor overall technical
framework (para. 2.20). The Bank's past experience ir. the roads subsector has
shown that its involvement in all aspects of road maintenance can help
considerably bring about the major changes that are required (para 3.5).
Therefore, the project's civil work. program gives priority to maintenance in
order to: (i) ernsure that the better procedures and guidelines which have
been developed under the Second Rural Roads Development Project are used early
on a large scale and are well monitored; (ii) encourage kabupatens to increase
funding of maintenance (project funds would match their own financing); and
(iii) concentrate the attention and support of the project's GOI staff and
supervision consultants on maintenance.
4.5       The road maintenance component will comprise the entire annual
kabupaten road maintenance programs in the 73 kabupatens over the years
1992/93 to 1994/95 except in South Sumatra (para. 4.3(a)). The target to be
reached by the third year of the project is that 100 percent of the
maintainable network, i.e., about 25,000 km, should be maintained. This
target will be met gradually, by 50 percent for the first year and 75 percent
for the second year for periodic maintenance, and 70 percent the first year
and 85 percent the second year for routine maintenance. However, for a few
kabupatens (Tapanuli Utara, Karo, Simalungun, and Dairi in North Sumatra, and
Solok in West Sumatra) which could have financial difficulty in meeting these
targets, lower targets have been agreed for periodic maintenance (35 percent
the first year, 60 percent the second year, and 85 percent the third year) as
well as for routine maintenance (50 percent, 65 percent and 85 percent
respectively). Draft first year maintenance programs for each project
kabupaten were reviewed at appraisal; they are now further developed taking
Bank comments into account on the basis of the methodology presented in
Chapter V and with reference to the above targets. At nezotiations. aareement
was reached with GOI that it would cause each project kabunaten to (a) prepare
its annual road maintenance program for the fiscal lears 1993194 and 1994/95
in accordance with a methodoloav and criteria aareed to by the Bank (Chanter
V). (b) submit this program for the Bank's review and comments before December
31. 1992. and December 31. 1993. respectively. and Ic) finalize and implement
this Program taking into account the comments. if any, by the Bank. Agreement
was also reached that GOI would select subproiects for the maintenance
comnonent of the vroiect in accordance vith criteria and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. It was understood in particular that subprojects



- 20 -
would be included in a kabupaten road maintenance program prepared as agreed,
and designed in accordance with DGH's technical guidelines. In addition, in
order to give a strong incentive to project kabupatens to me3t the above
maintenance targets, it was understood that satisfactory preparation and
implementation of maintenance programs will be a condition of each kabupaten's
eligibility for the project's rehabilitation/improvement component (para. 4.7)
Implementation of the maintenance programs would be monitored through periodic
reports on the bas-'.s of progress certification issued by the supervision
consultants (para. 4.8).
Road Rehabilitation/Improvemeut
4.6       This component is relatively limited as a result of the project's
emphasis on maintenance (para. 4.4). The 4,200 km of rehabilitation/
improvement works will include several hundred sections of roads in poor or
bad condition. This amounts to about 20 km of major works per year per
kabupaten, representing about 25 percent of the rehabilitation bac:klog. The
roads will be brought up to minimum standards based on projected traffic
volumes and topograph- (Annex 9); existing alignment will be retained to the
extent possible. Works will be designed for a ten year lifetime and will
include, as required, rehabilitation of pavement layers, shoulders, side and
cross drainage and bridges. The traditional pavement surfacing on kabupaten
roads (penetration macadam carried out by labor-based methods), for which
improvements were introduced under the Second Rural Roads Development Project
through new specifications and technical assistance, will continue to be
utilized and improved, together with other paving methods such as bitumen
emulsion, softer-grade bitumen, graded aggregate paving materials, cold mix
asphalt, soil stabilization. Fine-grain asbuton may also be used on a pilot
basis.
4.7       Draft first year rehabilitation/improvement programs for each
kabupaten, prepared on the basis of the methodology presented in Chapter V
were reviewed at appraisal. Detail design is now being completed. About
27 percent of works in the first year are expected to be rehabilitation of
sealed roads. The balance are existing gravel, stone or earth roads requiring
betterment/upgrading to seal or gravel standards. A sealed surface is
proposed for about 80 percent of the program, the rest are mainly earth roads
with estimated traffic potential of less than 50 ADT recommended for
graveling. About 10 percent of the program would be build to pavement widths
of 4,5 m or more and represent in most cases widening projects for roads with
more than 500 ADT. Pavement width of 3.0 or 3.5 m are proposed for other
projects based on minimum etandards for roads with projected traffic below 500
ADT. Implementation is expected to start in July 1992. The selection and
evaluation of subprojects for the second year program has already started.
At negotiations. agreement was reached with GOI that it would cause each
proiect kabuvaten to (a) Rrepare its annual rehabilitation and imvrovement
works program in resRect of the proiect for the fiscal years 1933/94 and
1994/95 in accordance with a methodology and criteria agreed to by the Bank
(Chapter V). (b) submit this grogram for the Bank's review and comments before
December 31. 1992. and December 31. 1993. resvectivelv. and (c) finalize and
implement this proaram takint into account the comments. if any. by the Bank.
Agreement was also reached that GOI would select subgroiects for the
rehabilitation/improvement comgonent of the nroiect in accordance with
criteria and procedures (including environmental assessment 2rocedures)
satisfactorv to the Bank. It was understood in particular that the following



- 21 -
would applyt (a) the kabupaten in which the subproject is located needs to
have submitted an acceptable annual maintenance program for the corresponding
fiscal year, and implemented satisfactorily its maintenance program in the
previous fiscal year; (b) the subproject is included in an annual road
rehabilitation/improvement program prepared as agreed, and has been designed
in accordance with DGH's technical guidelines; (c) the subproject economic
rate of return is at least 10 percent; and (d) the subproject has been
submitted to the environmental screening, assessment and review process
presented in para. 4.35 below.
Road Works Proarams Supervision
4.8       Technical quality of works has improved gradual y during the Second
Rural Roads Development Project. However, a technical audit carried out in
late 1990 showed serious deficiencies in many aspects of the works, indicating
lack of detailed supervision. Therefore, the project provides full support to
the decentralized units (73 DPUKs and 9 DPUP/PBPJKs) for the implementation of
the annual programs of maintenance and rehabilitation of kabupaten roads,
including engineering preparation, contractor prequalification and tender
evaluation, quality control and monitoring, and on-the-job training of DPUK/
DPUP staff in these fields. GOI will employ foreign and local consultants for
this purpose, some of whom will be stationed in the provincial centers and
others in the kabupaten centers to work with DPUP and DPUK counterpart staff
on a daily basis. To facilitate administration and coordination, the services
will be divided into two Field Consultants for Implementation (FCI) teams for
the Western and for the Central Regions, which will act as the "engineer"
fully empowered to supervise the contracts, including certification of works.
The services would include about 535 staff-months of foreign and 15,200 staff-
months of local consultants (of which 2,880 of professionals, 6,000 of
subprofessionals, and 6,320 of inspectors/surveyors). These consultants
should mobilize when the first year program is due to start. Therefore, the
terms of reference (included in the Project File) were agreed during project
preparation, so that contracts could be awarded and started by July 1, 1992.
Workshops and Laboratories
4.9       New guidelines for workshop and equipment management (para. 4.10)
call for major repair and overhaul of kabupaten equipment to be carried out in
the provincial workshops, and servicing and preventive maintenance to be
carried out in kabupaten workshops facilities. Such facilities, including
laboratories for basic testing of soils and materials, already exist in most
of the 73 project kabupatens, but they will be upgraded. In addition, five
new laboratories will be built in kabupatens where no such facility exists.
Equipment will be provided for all laboratories as well as for some workshops,
as summarized in Annex 10.
Road Construction and Maintenance Eauipment
4.10      Kabupaten equipment fleets are used partly to carry out road works
by force account and partly to lease out to contractors who lack certain
essential equipment. Performance of these fleets has been unsatisfactory,
mainly due to weak management. A set of guidelines for workshop and equipment
management Was prspared under the Second Rural Roads Development Project,
providing a practical framework for more efficient management, including
messures to ensure that rental rates of kabupaten equipment fully reflect



- 22 -
ownership and maintenance costs. GOI now intends to implement these
guidelines in all kabupatens and ensure that kabupatens provide sufficient
funding for the operation and maintenance of their equipment.
4.11      As an alternative to continue providing equipment to the kabupatens,
the Project attempts to create the conditions for a larger involvement of the
private sector, e.g., larger contract packages, multi-year contracts, improved
procedures for prequalification and for enforcement of contract obligations,
etc. However, this will not be possible or sufficient in all the kabupatens,
and some equipment is still needed for carrying out expected works. Annex 10
shows the equipment and spare parts required for some kabupatens, which will
be procured under the project. This list was confirmed at negotiations.
E. Training
4.12      A nationwide Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan (KRMTP) was
prepared recently by GOI (para 2.16). Priority parts of KRMTP will be
included in the project. They include: (i) preparation of training programs
including course design and materials development; (ii) provision of equipment
and supplies for training programs preparation and delivery; (iii) training of
trainers; (iv) delivery of training programs, including professional staff
training programs which will be contracted out; and (v) strengthening of the
institutions involved in training, including the setting up of systems for
training needs analysis and monitoring and evaluation. The objective,
confirmed at negotiations, is to provide about 620 training sessions (or
150,000 trainee-days) in about 25 priority subject matters to about 6,200
staff over a five-year period. Only the first three years of the component
will be included in the project. The last two years are expected to be
included in the forthcoming Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads (KREI) Project.
At nexotiations. agreement was reached with GOI that (a) by June 30. 1993.
December 31. 1993. and December 31. 1994 it would prepare and submit for the
Bank's review and approval its annual program for in-house delivery of
trainina. for the fiscal years 1993/94. 1994/95 and 1995/96. respectively: and
(b) finalize and implement this proaram takina into account the comments. if
any. by the Bank. More details on this component are in Annex 2.
4.13      To assist in the implementation of the training component, GOI will
employ foreign and local consultants. The services will include about 144
staff months of foreign and about 1,400 staff months of local consultants (of
which about 700 of professionals and 700 of subprofessionals). Draft terms of
reference (included in the Project File) were agreed in principle at
negotiations. Services would start by January 1, 1993.
P. Technical Assistance for Institutional and Technical Development
4.14      GOI central agencies, mainly DGH, need support to continue improving
the institutional and technical framework for preparation and implementation
of kabupaten road works programs as well as to guide and monitor project
execution. Accordingly, the project would include: (a) technical support and
lia'son for engineering aspects, including evaluation of implementation of
technical guidelines and specifications, and for technical audits; (b) general
assistance in planning, including further development of the planning
methodologies, carrying out special studies of road works needs in under-



- 23 -
developed areas, analyzing the current situation and issues regarding village
roads, assessing the size of the road network that kapubatens can economically
and financially maintain and rehabilitate, and assessing the long-term
indirect impact of road rehabilitation/improvement on the environment (for
example, through land development and deforestation); (c) assistance in the
monitoring and coordination of project activities, including the coordination
of the separate teams of PCI and training consultants, the monitoring of
project environmental impact, and the preparation of project implementation
reports; (d) support 1t the preparation of annual road works programs
including, inter alia, the environmental screening of proposed subprojects,
the carrying out of site-specific environmental assessments when required, the
systematic review of subprojects' economic viability, and the extension of
planning methodologies to non-project kabupatens; and (e) support to MPW in
its review of site-specific environmental assessments.
4.15      For the above purpose, GOI will employ foreign and local consultants
under a Central Technical Consultants (CTC) team, and assign counterpart staff
(as described in the Terms of Reference) as an essential component of staffing
to enable achievement of project objectives. The services would include about
273 staff-months of foreign and 824 staff-months of local consultants, to
start at the very beginning of the project. In addition, there would be a
separate contract for about 36 staff-months of local consultants for the
environmental support to MPW. The CTC Terms of Reference (included in the
Project File) were agreed during project preparation, in time for the
consultants to be selected and mobilized by July 1, 1992.
0. Cost Estimates
4.16      The total project cost is estimated at US$499 million (Rp 1,031
billion equivalent), including taxes and duties of US$45.4 million equivalent.
It includes: (a) physical contingencies of 10 percent on the base cost of all
components; and (b) price contingencies of 3.7 percent on the foreign
component and of 6.0 percent on the local component each year throughout
project implementation. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$169
million or 34 percent of total costs. Detailed cost estimates are given in
Annex 11 and summarized in Table 4.1 below.
4.17      The base costs including taxes are estimated as of January 1992.  In
the case of civil works, estimates are based on updated and adjusted recent
unit prices for similar works. Rehabilitation/improvement works are estimated
to cost about US$40,000 per km.  Routine maintenance is estimated to cost
about US$1,200 per km. Periodic maintenance is estimated to cost US$13,000
per km for sealed roads and US$5,600 for gravel roads. A new workshop is
estimated at US$50,000 and rehabilitation of existing ones about US$15,000.
The cost of equipment for construction and maintenance operations, for
workshops, and for laboratories is based on recent bids. The cost of
consultant services is also based on recent contracts. Regarding training,
the cost is based on ongoing similar programs both in-country and overseas.
H. Financina
4.18      Financing of the proposed project is shown in Table 4.2 below.



- 24 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Rupiah (million)         USS (million)      Foreign
Local Foreign  Total   LOcal  Foreign  Total  exchange
Road network lm=rovement
Road Works                   541,297 256,305   797,502 271.7   128.7   400.4    32
Workshops, laboratories       2,573   3,937      6,510   1.3     2.0     3.3    60
Equipment program              1,740   9,860    11,600   0.9     4.9     5.8    85
Subtotal                  545.610 270.102   815.712 273.9   135.6   409.5    33
Tranlng component              9,139   7,261    16,400   4.6      3.6     8.2    44
Instit./tech. develop.          8,775  10,725    19,500   4.4      5.4     9.8    55
Total baseline costs      563.524 288.088   851.612 282.9   144.6   427.5    34
Physical contingencies         58,352  28,809    85,161  28.3    14.5    42.8    34
Price contingencies            62,840  31,822    94,662  19.2      9.7    28.9    37
Total prolects costs      682.716 348.719 1.031.435 330.4   168.8   499.2    34
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Source of Finance          Local    Foreign    Taxes    Total
*OI                       238.8        0.0       45.4    284.2
Bank                       46.3      168.8        0.0    215.0
Total                285.0       168.8       45.4    499.2
The proposed Bank loan of US$215 million would finance about 43 percernt of
total project cost, or about 47 percent net of taxes and duties, representing
100 percent of foreign cost and 16 percent of local cost. GOI would finance
the remaining US$284.2 million equivalent, or about 57 percent of the total
estimated project cost, mainly through annual budgetary allocations from the
central government grant programs, IPJR and Inpres Dati II.
I. Implementation and Monitoring
4.19       The project's civil work. will be implemented by the DPUKs in the 73
project kabupatens, assisted by DPUP technical staff and technical assistance
consultants. The other project components (provision of equipment, training,
supervision of works, and technical assistance) will be implemented by DGH.
The project is expected to become effective in September 1992, but the first
contracts would have been let by July 1992 (para. 4.30). Execution would be
completed bv March 31; 1996, about 3-3/4 years after start-up.  The loan



- 25 -
closing date is scheduled for September 30, 1996. The implementation
schedule, as shown in Annex 12, was confirmed by GOI during negotiations.
4.20      In addition to the direct implementation responsibilities mentioned
in para. 4.19, the main agencies involved in the project are MPW for technical
aspects, MHA for institutional aspects, BAPPENAS for development planning
aspects, and MOF for financial aspects. The detailed responsibilities of
these agencies and corresponding offices at kabupaten, provincial, and central
levels have been defined (para. 2.14). Agencies will be coordinated by a
committee at Director General level chaired by BAPPENAS. This committee will
be assisted by a Project Secretariat in coordinating tue preparation of
actions to be taken by the agencies as part of project implementation and in
monitoring the execution of these actions. The Project Secretariat will
include Director level representatives of BAPPENAS, MPW, MHA, and MOF. At
negotiations. it was agreed that GOI would establish the Proiect Secretariat
by November 1. 1992.
4.21      A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will also be needed to monitor
progress in project implementation, including preparation of annual programs,
procurement, physical achievements, and expenditures. At negotiations. it was
agreed that GOI would establish this unit in DGH by November 1. 1992. DGH
will also be designated as project executing agency. Monthly reports provided
by the DPUKs through the Field Consultants for Implementation teams and the
CTC's and training consultants' monthly reports will provide the basis for
monitoring. Progress on the project will be communicated to the Bank by means
of periodic progress reports, the first one to be due by October 1992. These
reports will include both consolidated information for the total project and
individual reports for each province, to meet the reporting requirements as
stated in Annex 14 including specific monitoring indicators. The PIU will
prepare a detailed project completion report and submit it to the Bank not
later than six months after the loan closing date.
J. Procurement
4.22      The project civil works are scattered over vast areas and although
works will be packaged as explained below (para. 4.23), the size of contracts
is expected to be too small (about US$300,000 on average for rehabilitation/
improvement works, which are the most important) to attract foreign
contractors. Civil works will therefore be carried out by contracts awarded
under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank and
open for participation by foreign contractors. All contractors will be
subjected to prequalification under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such
procedures have been finalized for the first year works program. Standard
bidding documents for civil works acceptable to the Bank will be used.
Improvements have also been finalized to draft bidding documents submitted by
GOI.
4.23      One of the means to improve quality of works is to increase the
efficiency of the contracting process (para. 2.24). To this end, it was
agreed at negotiations that civil works contracts would be nackaged in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank. It was understood that
arrangements described here below would be used in order to (i) attract a
maximum of Class A and Class B1 (para. 2.25) contractors, and (ii) give
contractors an incentive to invest in new equipment through the award of
contracto of a longer duration (para. 4.11):



- 26 -
(a)  for rehabilitation/improvement works, a minimum share of all
contracts would be of a size of Rp 500 million or more (so that they
can be carried out by Class A contractors); a minimum would also be
of contracts with a construction period over one fiscal year.
Specifics are shown in Table 4.3 below which defines for two groups
of provinces, the minimum shares of the value of all contracts each
year in a kabupaten to be made of larger and of longer contracts.
The five provinces of the first group in Table 4.3 have already made
substantial use of class A contractors, which is not the case for
the four provinces in the second group which need more time to make
the adjustment. For year 1 for the first group and for all years
for the second group of provinces, the share will be calculated as
ar average over all kabupatens of each province. Otherwise, the
share will be calculated for each kabupaten. All other
rehabilitation/improvement contracts will be carried out by Class Bl
contractors.
Table 4.3: CONTRACT PACKAGING FOR REHABILITATION/IMPROVEMENT WORKS
Minimum Share
(expressed as a percentage of
the value of all contracts)
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3
1. Aceh                    (i)  Contracts above         502      50%       75Z
West Sumatra                 Rp 500 million
Lampung
West Java               (ii) Contracts with          02       50X        502
West Kalimantan              construction over
one fiscal year
2. North Sumatra           (i)  Contracts above         OZ       50%       50Z
Bengkulu                     Rp 500 million
Jambi
South Sumatra           (ii) Contracts with          02       502       50Z
construction over
one fiscal year
Note: Categories (i) and (ii) above are not exclusive.
(b)  for periodic maintenance works, packages will be valued above Rp 200
million, so that they are carried out by class Bl contractors; and
(c)  routine maintenance will be carried out partly by force account, up
to a maximum share of 50 percent or an aggregate amount of US$44
million equivalent, and partly by small contractors.
4.24      Equipment, spare parts, and supplies will be procured in accordance
with ICB procedures, except for minor items or groups of items estimated to



- 27 -
cost less than US$200,000 per contract, which may be procured on the basis of
international shopping, after a minimum of three price quotations. Items
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract may be procured through
off-the-shelf shopping. The maximum aggregated value of contracts procured
through international shopping is US$0.7 million and through off-the-shelf
shopping US$0.3 million. Contracts for spare parts, up to an aggregate amount
of US$0.5 million, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers.
Items should be grouped to the extent possible. In bid comparison and
evaluation under ICB, domestic manufacturers may be granted a margin of
preference of 15 oercent or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower.
Consultanto will be appointed in accordance with Bank guidelines for use of
consultants and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Professional
training as well as in-house training delivery will be carried out under
procedures and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.25      Bank prior review will apply to the following contracts:  (i) civil
works above US$2.0 million, (ii) equipment above US$200,000, and (iii) all
consultants' services and professional training. Other nontracts will be
submitted to post-review. This will result in a prior rc.iew of about 12
percent of all contracts in value or 26 percent of the amounts financed by the
Bank. To compensate for this relatively low level of prior review, project
preparation has put emphasis on improving the quality of the prequalification
procedures and standard bidding documents to be used for civil works. A
systematic post-review of civil works will also be carried out on a random
basis during supervision. The experience of such post-reviews under the
ongoing Highway Sector Project has been successful. Training delivery will be
in accordance with a detailed program and cost estimates prepared annually and
submitted to Bank's prior approval (para. 4.12).
4.26      Procurement administration will mainly be the responsibility of the
DPUKs for civil works and DGH for equipment, consultancy services, and
training. Final decisions on awards will rest with the authority designated
in the relevant procurement regulations (Project File, item 1(b)], which
define different levels depending on the contract value. DPUKs have shown
under the Second Rural Roads Development Project their capability to carry out
satisfactorily the procurement of works. They will also be assisted by the
FCI and the procurement process will be monitored by DGH. During
negotiations, GOI agreed to all the above procurement arrangements. Table 4.4
below gives a breakdown of the project by procurement method.
K. Disbursements
4.27      Loan funds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a)  Civil Works:  40 percent of expenditures;
(b)  Equipment. S2are Parts, and SuDDlies:  100 percent of foreign
expenditures for directly imported items; or 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory) of locally manufactured items, or
65 percent of expenditures for other locally procured items;
(c)  Consultancy Services:  100 percent of expenditures; and
(d)  In-house Trainina Delivery:  75 percent of expenditures.



- 28 -
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement method /a           Total
Project element                          ICB         LCB        Other       cost
Road rehabilitation/                                199.6                  199.6
improvement                                       (72.8)                 (72.8)
Road maintenance                                    192.5        44.0/b    236.5
(70.2)     (16.0)      (86.2)
Workshops, laboratories                                1.6                    1.6
(0.6)                  (0.6)
Equipment, spare parts & supplies        8.4                      1.5/c      9.9
for road works, workshops,            (7.6)                    (1.3)      (8.9)
labs, & training
Consultancy services                                             49.3/d     49.3
(44.8)     (44.8)
In-house training delivery                                        1.5/e       1.5
(1.0)      (1.0)
Professional training                                             0.8/e      0.8
(0.7)      (0.7)
Total                              8.4         393.7       97.1       499.2
(7.6)      (143.6)      (63.8)    (215.0)
La Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan and include contingencies.
Lb Force account.
/L  Intern-tional shopping, off-the-shelf shopping, and, for spare parts,
direct contracting.
/d In accordance with Bank's Guidelines for use of Consultants.
le Under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) Professional Training: 100 percent of expenditures.
Disbursements under the project will be made against full documentation of
expenditure except for the following items, for which disbursements would be
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (i) civil works under
US$2.0 million, (ii) equipment, spare parts, and supplies under US$200,000,
and (iii) training delivery. Withdrawal applications will be aggregated in
amounts of not less than US$100,000 equivalent, prior to their submission to
the Bank. SOE records would be made available to Bank staff as required for
inspection during supervision. The schedu_.e of estimated disbursements is
shown in Annex 13; it differs substantially from the disbursement profile for



- 29 -
standard highway projects (which require some six years for completion),
mainly because the inroject is limited to three consecutive annual programs of
road works in the 73 project kabupatens. Disbursements are expected to be
completed in about 4I years. The experience under the Second Rural Roads
Development Project has shown this schedule to be realistic.
4.28      Bank disbursements for road maintenance expenditures would be at a
constant percentage (40 percent) rather than on a declining basis, mainly for
administrative simplicity. However, because of the increasing annual targets
for maintenance (para. 4.5), GOI's funding of maintenance will double from
about 30 percent of total needs in the project's first year to 60 percent in
its last. GOI's share of funding of incremental maintenance will also
increase to 45 percent. Because of the project's short duration, and the
current neglect of maintenance on kabupaten roads, it would not be realistic
to aim at higher percentages. The Bank's disbursement share has in fact been
set at the minimum value expected to give an incentive to the kabupatens to
increase considerably their own allocation of funds to maintenance as well as
adopt better planning/programming and implementation methods.
4.29      In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements, GOI intends to
set up a Special Account in the Bank of Indonesia with an initial deposit from
the loan of US$15.0 million (equivalent to four months' estimated average loan
disbursements). The account would be maintained in US dollars. Applications
for replenishment of the Special Account would be made quarterly or whenever
the Account is drawn down to 50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever
comes first.
L. Accounts and Audits
4.30      The PIU will have overall responsibility for establishing and
monitoring the use of a uniform project accounting system. Financial records
and accounts by subprojects will be retained by the DPUKs based on copies of
financial and supporting documents obtained from project managers and relevant
agencies concerned with project funding, payment and reimbursement. The PIU
will maintain accounts for equipment procured on behalf of the project and for
training and technical assistance. The DPUKs through the Field Consultants
for Implementation will transmit up-4 date project accounts to the PIU on a
regular basis. The PIU comptroller w. 1 consolidate all accounts from the 73
kabupatens into a single project account on a quarterl;- basis for monitoring
purposes, and annually for audit purposes. During negotiations, GOI agreed
that: (a) the project's records and accounts, including for the SOEs and the
Special Account, will be audited annually in a timely fashion by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b) it will submit to the Bank certified
copies of the audit reports starting December 31, 1993, and subsequently no
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year. In the case of
SOEs, the audit report will contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.



- 30 -
M. Retroactive Financing
4.31      Retroactive financing for civil works and consulting services, not
to exceed US$12.0 million, would be provided under the project for
expenditures incurred after March 1, 1992, and before the date of the loan
agreement.
N. Environmental Impact
4.32      Potential Environmental Impact.  Among the project's works, only
those for road rehabilitation/improvement may be expected to have impacts of
some significance on the environment. These impacts may be direct, through
loss of vegetation and natural habitat, unsuitable construction practices,
increases in run-offs and erosion, dust, noise and traffic safety hazards.
They may also be indirect, through induced development and its uncontrolled
effects such as deforestation and loss of soil through poor agriculture
practices and erosion. Given that kabupaten roads are narrow (three to four
meters pavement in general) and follow the terrain, with in general little or
no earthworks, the direct impacts of project works are generally of a very
small scale, with very little land acquisition and almost no building removal.
Moreover, given that road sections to be rehabilitated/improved are in general
less than ten kilometers long, the areas where indirect impacts may be felt
are limited.
4.33      ImRact Assessment.  GOI has prepared a sectoral environmental impact
assessment (EIA) for the project (included in the Project File). This EIA
reviews the legal framework for environmental assessment in Indonesia and
analyzes the major impacts to be expected from project works grouped into
seven main representative categories. It concludes that, except for works on
road sections not previously open to year round four-wheel traffic and going
through or providing access to "fragile" areas, project works would only have
minor impacts on the environment and that these impacts could be mitigated
through the use of codes of sound environmental practice at survey/design and
works implementation stages. "Fragile" areas are defined on the basis of the
REPPPROT maps, which are maps prepared between 1982 and 1988, for the planning
of transmigration projects. These maps cover all of Indonesia and are widely
recognized as one of the best data source on the natural environment of
Indonesia. "Fragile" areas include in particular conservation areas, forest
reserves, wetlands, coastal zones, and any area with potential erosion
problems. According to the EIA, road works which may have a significant
environmental impact, are expected to be less than 10 percent of all
rehabilitation/improvement works proposed by the kabupatens for Bank
financing. For those works, the EIA recommends that site specific
environmental assessments be prepared in accordance wvih GOI's environmental
regulations.
4.34      The appraisal mission reviewed the EIA and found its conclusions and
recommendations sound in general. On this basis, specific agreements with GOI
have been formulated (para 4.35). The appraisal mission found, however, that
the indirect impacts of proposed road works that would provide access to some
of the fragile areas might be more significant than assessed in the EIA.
Given the scarcity of data and analysis, there is no conclusive evidence as to
what the relationship is between improved access, induced development, and
indirect impacts. However, through consideration of rural population density



- 31 -
and growth, and percentag:3 forest cover, as well as through discussions with
experts involved in environmental work in Indonesia, the appraisal mission
identified fifteen kabupatens 5/ where the risk of indirect impacts needed
to be considered.
4.35      Recommended Actions.  At negotiations, an understanding was reached
with GOI that the criteria and procedures on the basis of which
rehabilitation/ improvement subprojects would be selected (para 4.7) would
include the following: (a) road works in the draft program submitted annually
to the Bank (para 4.7) will be screened so as to identify those on road
sections not previously open to four-wheel traffic and providing access to
fragile areas; (b) such road -orks will be submitted to a site specific
environmental assessment in act.ordance with MPW's environmental procedures;
(c) only road works which have been found acceptable by both GOI and the Bank
as a result of the environmental assessment will be eligible for Bank
financing; (d) any road works financed by the Bank will be designed and
implemented in accordance with agreed environmental codes of practice and this
will be regularly monitored; (e) no road works will be eligible for Bank
financing if they provide access to conservation or forest reserve areas 6/
in any project-assisted kabupaten, or to protected forest areas 6/ in the
fifteen kabupatens where induced development may have significant indirect
impacts; such road works will be screened out as part of the alnual program
preparation procedures (Chapter V); the list of fifteen kabupatens will be
reviewed and, if necessary, revised annually to take account of additiou.al
information that may become available from various sources, including the
study of long term indirect environmental impact of rehabilitation/improvement
works (para 4.14).
4.36      Actions have already been initiated by GOI and support is provided
in the project to enable GOI to fulfill the above agreements. The proposed
first year road works program has already been screened and any road works
corresponding to conditions (a) and (e) above, have been excluded. Those
corresponding to conditions (a) above will be submitted to an environmental
assessment and may be included in the second or third year programs if found
acceptable. The assessments will be carried out by the Central Technical
Consultants (para 4.15). In addition, separate support will be provided to
the environmental group of DGH (Tim Kerja) and the en.vironmental commission of
MPW (Komisi Pusat) to assist them in their review of the assessments (para
4.15). Codes of sound environmental practice have been prepared and found
acceptable by the appraisal mission. They have been integrated in the new
technical guidelines for preparation and implementation of kabupaten road
works (para 2.22). The use of the codes of practice and the implementation of
environmental management and monitoring plans, whenever required, will be
assisted by the Field Consultants for Implementation and monitored by the
Central Technical Consultants.
5/ Aceh Timor, Aceh Utara, Aceh Besar, and Pidie in Aceh province; Nias,
Asahan, and Simalungan in North Sumatra; Agam in West Sumatra; Bengkulu
Utara, Bengkulu Selatan, and Rejang Lebong in Bengkulu; Batang Hari in
Jambi; and Pontianak, Sanggau and Sambas in West Kalimantan.
6/ As defined by the REPPPROT maps.



- 32 _
4.37      Road works that will not have been found acceptable by the Bank as a
result of a site specific environmental assessment or because they will
correspond to condition (e) in para 4.35 above, could in principle still be
executed by GOI with its own funds. However, such road works would still have
to be cleared by GOI's own environmental review (AMDAL process, para. 2.26).
Although the ANDAL process is only beginning to be implemented for
kabupaten roads, the Bank's rejection of the proposed works, when it occurs,
may be expected to trigger a detailed review by the environmental commission
of MPW. More generally, environmental activities under the Project, including
the study of long term indirect impacts of rehabilitation/improvement works
(para 4.14), are expected to have a demonstrative effect and introduce simple
practical procedures which complement GOI's ANDAL process; these activities
will thus have benefits beyond the project itself.



- 33 _
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.1       In general, the project will provide or significantly improve access
to rural areas in more than one quarter of all kabupatens of Indonesia, and
thus will help mobilize rural trade, increase the pace of rural economic
growth, and promote equitable regional development. Its most direct economic
benefits include (a) savings in operating costs of motorized and non-motorized
vehicles; (b) savings 4.n the personal time cost of travellers; and (c) savings
from modal transfer and generated traffic. Private users such as individual
car drivers, car and bus passengers, and firms using transport on their own
account will capture these benefits directly. In addition, the benefits
accruing to Indonesia's trucking and inter-urban bus industries, which are
competitive, will be passed on to producers and consumers through lower prices
of goods and services.
5.2       In addition, the project will provide valuable support for GOI's
decentralization policy by strengthening the implementation capacity of the
kabupaten, and the capacity of central and provincial agencies to assist and
supervise kabupatens. The project will, in particular, (a) reinforce the
planning-programming-budgeting system developed during the Second Rural Roads
Development Project; (b) introduce measures to improve construction quality;
and (c) institute road maintenance on a systematic basis.
5.3       Most project-affected areas are not reached by national or
provincial roads and include low-income rural households who lack access to
public health and education facilities and for whom the lack of jobe
opportunities encourages migration to already crowded cities. The project
will also contribute to alleviate these problems. In addition, its poverty
alleviation impact, albeit indirect, will be considerable. The project will
create about 3.3 million unskilled worker-days per annum for various types of
major works, another 2.8 million for routine maintenance and 2.0 million for
periodic maintenance. In all, the project will generate about 24 million
unskilled worker-days during the 3-year implementation. As a result, about
Rp 80 billion will be paid out in wages, much of which is expected to be
earned by the poorer section of the population.
B. Preparation of the Annual Road Works Proarams
5.4       Road maintenance and rehabilitation/improvement works to be included
in the project will be selected annually in the context of the budget
preparation process in accordance with procedures developed during the Second
Rural Roads Development Project. These procedures are briefly described and
assessed below. Further details are in Annexes 1 and 3.
5.5       Maintenance Works.  Guidelines for the preparation of annual
maintenance programs in each kabupaten were prepared in 1990 and reviewed in
1991 after field testing. They have been tailor-made to produce maintenance
programs in kabupatens where little or no condition data existed previously.
They include the following steps in each kabupaten: (a) inventory of the
potentially maintainable network, (b) preliminary identification of road
sections that may require routine or periodic maintenance, (c) preparation of



- 34 -
separate periodic and routine maintenance work programs and detailed cost
estimates which are then fed into the budget decision making process.
5.6       Item (a) above is based on available information on road condition
and consideration of previous years' rehabilitation/improvement programs.
Item (b) includes a preliminary survey of the maintainable network and a
qualitative assessment of which road sections require routine or periodic
maintenance. Item (c) includes (i) a detailed survey of the sections
identified for periodic maintenance with quantitative assessment of defects
(such as stripping, potholes, cracking, and rutting), and the preparation of
the annual periodic maintenance work program based on well specified
intervention levels, and (ii) preparation of an indicative routine maintenance
wo-k program, costed on a per kilometer rate basis, which is specified later
on at the time of works implementation.
5.7       These guidelines and the criteria that they include are based on
international experience and on the lessons of experience under the Second
Rural Roads Development Project. They are sound as a first step but will need
continuous improvement during project implementation. The Field Consultants
for Implementation will assist kabupaten staff prepare and implement their
maintenance programs and DGH/DPUPs monitor achievements (para 4.5 and 4.8).
The Central Technical Consultants will assist DGH assess periodically the
quality of the guidelines and formulate improvements (para 4.14).
5.8       As most kabupatens have not given sufficient emphasis to maintenance
in the past and are therefore not adequately prepared to efficiently implement
the large maintenance programs that are required on their networks, it has
been agreed that the actual maintenance carried out under the project would be
increased in stages with 100 percent of the maintenance needs (as defined by
the use of the above guidelines) being satisfied only in the project's third
year. Agreed targets (para 4.5) are ambitious and progress in achieving them
will need continuous attention from both GOI and the Bank.
5.9       Rehabilitation/Improvement Works.  Selection procedures were
developed in 1987 and have constantly been improved since then on the basis of
experience. They were conceived for the use of kabupaten staff (whose skills
are limited) with checks and supervision from DPUPs and DGH. They include the
following main stepss (a) updating the kabupaten road inventory;
(b) conducting basic traffic and road condition surveys on part of the
network; (c) analyzing data; (d) estimating the costs and economic benefits of
each road works proposal; (e) preparing a draft annual work program; and
(f) deciding on the annual budget. Items (a) through (d) are undertaken by
kabupaten teams, with assistance from DGH and DPUPs.7/ Item (e) is for the
local decision-makers (including the bupatis) to establish, with the economic
information made available to them. Item (f) is part of the national budget
process, with the RATEK - the national budget coordination conference, which
takes place in January and February each year - being the final step. About
13 to 18 months are required to complete a full cycle of the procedures.
7/ The kabupaten teams are made of four to eight part-time staff from
BAPPEDA II, DPUK, and Biro Pembangunan (the kabupaten liaison unit with
MRA). Team members are given a four-week off-duty training and ad-hoc on
the job training.



- 35 -
5.10      Two evaluation alternatives are used for step (d)s (i) the "traffic
counts model" for the normal trafficable roads, which is a simplified
conventional evaluation of the road user savings and maintenance changes
between "with" and "without" project alternatives; and (ii) the "population
model" for roads or footpaths that are unmotorable over 26 week. per year.
The latter is based on the "suppressed trip value" concept, defined as the
economic value of the trips that would have been made if road user costs had
not been prohibitively high. Statistical analysis is used to determine the
prohibitive cost in relation to the travelling costs on a motorable road and
to predict the trip rates before and after access is improved. The cost
saving per pedestrian trip is then converted to motorized trips. The models
have the following characteristics:
(a) discrete categories of road condition, each associated with
roughness and speed assumption, are used to assess VOC/time costs;
(b) standardized assumptions are used regarding (i) traffic composition
and passenger load observed on kabupaten roads; (ii) benefits from
generated traffic and modal transfer; (iii) traffic growth by
region; and (iv) "with" and "without" project maintenance costs.
(c) savings to non-motorized traffic are included by adjusting them to
four-wheel vehicle equivalents in terms of benefits expected;
(d) net economic benefits are expressed in net present value/kilometer
(NPV/km), using parameters of 10 years for road service life and
10 percent for discount rate and excluding residual values of
initial project investment;
(e) the engineering cost is based on a detailed model which takes
account of the costs of local materials and labor.
5.11      In accordance with the selection procedures, kabupaten staff are
required to conduct basic surveys to complete a series of standard inventory,
analysis, and planning forms, which, in combination with the use of well
conceived calculation tables, enable them to obtain the NPV/km of each road
work proposed. Only the proposals that have a positive NPV (i.e., an KIRR
above 10 percent), are eligible for IBRD funding as well as other IPJK
funding, a condition consistent with national planning guidelines.
5.12      In some cases where there is little traffic and population but where
great agricultural and other development potential exists, use of the standard
evaluation models becomes inappropriate.  Special procedures have therefore
been developed which combine some elementary regional planning with the use of
a site specific economic evaluation. Such procedures may be used in a few
cases during project implementation.
5.13      Based on the experience of the Second Rural Roads Development
Project, the appraisal mission has concluded that these selection procedures
are sound. They are simple enough for satisfactory and consistent application
by kabupaten staff but retain analytical rigor to ensure that selected
projects are economically justifiable. Marginal improvements are expected to
be incorporated continuously in the procedures as more experience is gained
and further research is carried out on some of the major parameters and
relationships used in the evaluation models. A specific program of



- 36 -
improvements was confirmed at negotiations. This will aim in particular at
achieving a better integration of the procedures into the normal budget
preparation process of the kabupatens through, inter alia, better coordination
of schedules and format of documents. Such improvements are especially
important because the procedures have become, since 1990, the nationwide
guidelines for preparation of the IPJK component of the kabupatens' budget.
5.14      Two issues that emerged from the Second Rural Roads Development
Project will also need to be given special attent'on during project
implementation: (i) The quality of planning work nas been impaired due to
transfer of trained staff out of the kabupaten and provincial planning units.
It was reported that this has involved so far as much as half of the staff
tra4.ned. Except in exceptional circumstances, staff should not be eligible
for a within-the-grade transfer within two years of their training. (it) In a
large number of kabupatens the traffic counts are also not reliable. To
address this problem, a random checking routine is now being built into the
system to check the traffic counts and guide a data audit process that has now
been established.
5.15      The kabupatens's capacity to implement the procedures and that of
DPUPs/DGH to assist and check the results still need to be strengthened. For
this purpose, the project will provide local and foreign consultants to help
at key stages, monitor progress and quality of output, fine tune the
evaluation models and procedures, and help DGH take full chargo of the entire
system. These services will be provided by the Central Technical Consultants.
C. Project Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
5.16      The first-year planning survey covered 1,745 road links with an
aggregate length of 9,151 km in 65 of the 73 project assisted kabupatens (all
provinces except South Sumatra). Of the links evaluated, about 40 percent are
recommended for maintenance; another 40 percent are considered viable for
rehabilitation/improvement works (i.e., with an EIRR above 10 percent); about
10 percent are below the EIRR cut-off line; and the remaining, slightly less
than 10 percent, need to be re-evaluated due to poor evaluation.
5.17      Economic returns could be estimated reliably only for the project's
draft first year program which was available during the project appraisal.
However, these can be considered as a good indication of the returns of the
entire project. Indeed, although the returns of the second and third years'
program may be expected to be lower than those of the first year (if the most
economically viable works are executed first, as they indeed should be), the
deterioration of the roads on which no work is undertaken the first year would
make the delayed works more valuable in any case.
5.18      The NPV and EIRR and sensitivity tests are summarized in Table 5-1.
The NPVs of the rehabilitation/improvement works are those estimated by
kabupaten staff under supervision of consultants. The first-year program,
which contains 345 links with a total length of 1,903 km, was drawn from a
pool of 1,349 economically viable links with 7,079 km (some descriptive
statistics are in Annex 16). The NPV of the base case is Rp 94 billion, with
an EIRR of 24 perceat. These estimates are sensitive to possible variations
in the costs and benefits streams. If the construction was badly executed
and/or routine maintenance inadequate, the road would deteriorate faster than



- 37 -
assumed, necessitating earlier periodic maintenance/strengthening, thereby
increasing the costs stream. In these circumstances and, also, if actual
traffic does n.c grow as expected, the savings in vehicle operating costs may
be lower than estimated. Several sensitivity scenarios have been analyzed to
take account of these risks. Results are in Table 5.1. In particular, if
benefits are reduced by 20 percent while costs are increased by 20 percent,
the EIRR drops to 13 percent, a low but acceptable value.
5.19      The economic returns of the maintenance program are estimated by a
simplified evaluation mouel, which assumes that in the "without" situation the
roughness of roads will increase from IRI 7/8 (Seal/Gravel) to IRI 14 in the
6/7th year, with the road requiring annual holding works from then on; in the
"with" situation, periodic maintenance will be performed in years 0 and 5 (in
line with the maintenance policy recommended under the project) and, due to
the proper maintenance, the roughness will stabilize at levels of IRI 7/8 for
the first four years, and then IRI 8/9 for years 5-10. Benefits are the VOC
savings associated with the differential of road roughness based on ADTs
observed, A standard annual traffic growth rate (4.5 percent) is adopted. In
addition, standard costs for routine and periodic maintenance on seal and
gravel roads are used.
5.20      The EIRR is calculated with this model on a sample of 100 randomly
selected links out of a total of over 1,800 links recommended for the first
year maintenance program. As shown in Table 5.1, the Base case EIRR of the
sample is 45 percent. In the situation where benefits are reduced by
20 percent and costs increased by 20 percent, the EIRR is still 36 percent.
5.21      The cost-weighted overall project EIRR (base case) is 36 percent.
If the costs are increased by 20 percent while the benefits remain the same,
the EIRR drops to 31 percent. If the benefits are down by 20 percent and
costs up by 20 percent, the EIRR would still be about 26 percent.
Table 5.1: ECONOMIC RETURNS AND SENSITIVITY TESTS
Total Project          Maior Works         Maintenance
Scenario           EIRR (2)    NPV (Rp Mln)   EIRR (x)    EIRR (Z)
Base Case            36.2           93,841          23.8       45.3
B-102, C <>          33.5           71,881          20.9       42.7
B+10O, C <>          38.3          115,800          26.7       47.8
B <>, C+20Z          31.5           68,690          18.8       40.9
B-202, C+202         26.3           24,771          13.4       35.8
Key:  B - Benefit;  C - Cost;  - - Decrease;  <> - Constant; + - Increase.
Discount Rate - 102.



- 38 -
D. Risks
5.22      The main project risk is that the substantial changes that the
project would introduce in the way kabupaten road programs are prepared and
implemented, may take longer than expected to take root, particularly in view
of the still evolving allocation of responsibilities between MPW and MHA and
the limited capacity of the central and provincial agencies in charge of
assisting and supervising kabupatens. To reduce this risk, GOI's National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) will continue to play a strong
coordinating role and a project mid-term implementation review will be carried
out around September 1993.
5.23      Another risk is related to the emphasis on road maintenance t d the
need for the kabupatens to reach a proper balance between betterment and
maintenance of the network. To mitigate any risk of slippage in this area,
the project includes two features: (i) the physical targets have been
carefully designed to allow for a gradual attainment of the objective of full
maintenance in the project's last year; and (ii) participation of each
kabupaten in the project's rehabilitation/improvement program for 1993/94 and
1994/95 is made contingent upon submission by the kabputen of an acceptable
maintenance program for each of these years and satisfactory implementation by
the kabupaten of its maintenance program for the previous year (para 4.5).



- 39 -
VI. MAIN AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, GOI agreed that it wouldt
(a) cause each project kabupaten to (i) prepare its annual road
maintenance program for the fiscal years 1993/94 and 1994/95 in
accordance with a methodology and criteria agreed to by the Bank;
(ii) submit this program for the Bank's review and comments before
December 31, 1992 and December 31, 1993, respectively; a.t (4ii)
finalize and implement this program taking into account the
comments, if any, by the Bank (para 4.5);
(b) cause each project kabupaten to (i) prepare its annual
rehabilitation and improvement works program in respect of the
project for the fiscal years 1993/94 and 1994/95 in accordance with
a methodology and criteria agreed to by the Bank; (ii) submit this
program for the Bank's review and comments before December 31, 1992
and December 31, 1993, respectively; and (iii) finalize and
implement this program taking into account the comments, if any, by
the Bank (para 4.7);
(c) select sub-projects for the maintenance and rehabilitation/
improvement components of the project in accordance with criteria
and procedures (including environmental assessment procedures)
satisfactory to the Bank (paras 4.5 and 4.7);
(d) by Jure 30, 1993, December 31, 1993, and December 31, 1994, prepare
and submit for the Bank's review and comments its annual program for
in-house delivery of training programs for the fiscal years 1993/94,
1994/95, and 1995/96, respectively, and finalize and implement this
program taking into account the comments, if any, by the Bank (para
4.12);
(e) by November 1, 1992, establish a Project Secretariat comprising
Director level representatives of BAPPENAS, MPW, MHA, and MOF, for
the purpose of assisting the Project Coordinating Committee in
coordinating the preparation of actions to be taken by the above
agencies as part of project implementation and in monitoring the
execution of these actions (para 4.20);
(f) by November 1, 1992, establish a Project Implementation Unit in DGH
to monitor progress in project implementation including preparation
of annual programs, procurement, physical achievements, and
expenditures (para 4.21);
(g) package civil works contracts in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.23).
6 2       On the basis of the above agreements, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$ 215 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
I * I        *   U -       - ME      *  * M    _  _ - _               _       .                  n _ _ _ _



ANNEX 1
-40-                            Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Methodology for Preparation of Maintenance Programs
1.    The kabupaten road maintenance strategy, as developed under the Second
Rural Roads Project, aims at:
a.    providing effective maintenance of all kabupaten roads in good and
fair condition;
b.    providing clear and consistent definitions of maintenance works;
c.    giving high priority for training in maintenance planning and
implementation;
d.    allocating  clear  responsibilities  for  maintenance  within  the
kabupaten organization;
e.    developing a maintenance organization in each kabupaten capable of
managing and supervising a yearly maintenance works program.
2.    To facilitate the implementation of that strategy, GOI has prepared
specific guidelines which will be used for the first time for the preparation in
each kabupaten of their 1992/93 road maintenance programs. It is expected that
*these guidelines will be further refined during the implementation of the
project.
Guidelines for the Preparation of Kabupaten Road Maintenance Programs
3.    These guidelines spell out activities to be carried out by the kabupatens
to identify the links to be assessed for their annual maintenance programs, carry
out condition surveys on these links, estimate costs, and prepare the detailed
programs. The guidelines have been tailor-made to produce maintenance programs
in kabupatens where little or no condition data exits.   The process follows
logically on from the project screening list (form P1) prepared as detailed in
the Technical Guidelines for the Planning and Programming of Kabupaten Roads
(Annex  3).    Other  guidelines  covering work methods  and  techniques,  the
organization, implementation and monitoring of road maintenance are provided in
separate documents (included in the Project File).
4.    The procedures are outlined in Table 1 of this Annex.  They include:
a.    selection of links (initiation of the P1 list);
b.    identification procedures  (definition  of  periodic  and  routine
segments;
c.    preparation procedures, which are different for periodic and routine
programs (paras 5 to 12 below).



- 41 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 2
In particular, Table 1 shows that the timing of the various actions is very
important to ensure that proper budget documentation (DURP) is ready by the time
of budget discussions (RATEK), generally in January/February each year.
Procedures for Periodic Maintenance
5.    They  involve  detailed  surveys  for  identifying  road  zondition  and
determining annual needs, determination of quantity and costs for the DURPs, and
then procurement, implementation and monitoring. Most of these procedures are
standardized, using special forms to be filled in by kabupaten staff. Monitoring
is essential to check for excess costs and quantity, to help assemble or update
the kabupaten tables of unit costs, and to complete the details in the P1 list
as feedback for prejaration of the following years maintenance program.
6.    Condition survey is the central part of the system.   In the current
simplified maintenance management system, kabupaten staff have to rely on visual
inspection, simple geometric measurements, and engineering judgement (hence the
importance of training). As skills and resources permit, the use of automated
surveys might be introduced.   The parameters rated are: texture, potholes,
depressions, cracking and wheel-track rutting for sealed roads; potholes, soft
spots, surface erosion, wheel-track rutting and corrugations for gravel roads.
In addition, camber (surface run-off) and shoulder condition are assessed. The
quantity and severity of defects per kilometer, are measured and road condition
is rated as shown in Table 2, allowing the classification of kabupaten roads
within the four categories: good, fair, poor, bad.
7.    The next main step is to prepare an annual work program based on an
interpretation of the survey inspection results. To assist in this task, a set
of intervention levels, as shown in Table 3, have been defined to recommend the
various limits of distress at which time appropriate repair works should be
carried out. Comparison of Tables 2 and 3 shows that the minimum recommended
intervention levels equate to the threshold of condition rating "fair", meaning
that the aim is to treat defects early in their development. Of course, these
levels should be suited to the particular local conditions.
8.    For tendering, the same documentation as for betterment projects will be
used. Implementation should commence in early April, and periodic maintenance
should ideally be completed well before the wet season (generally November-
December) so that the warranty period could cover at least a full rainy season.
Procedures for Routine Maintenance
9.    Routine maintenance has to be seen as a continuous, regular 12-month-a-year
activity, starting immediately after the warranty period is over on a newly
constructed or improved road. The main differences with periodic maintenance
relate to surveys, tendering and implementation.
10.   Routine maintenance as an ongoing feature does not require detailed
maintenance surveys. However, in view of the importance of having reliable rates
for costing different types of works, kabupatens are expected to carry out
selective surveys to verify the rates per kilometer used for routine maintenance.
11.   Tendering need not be as complex as for periodic maintenance. Much simpler
.___-l*m.- * .inu__  11EUEU---_ _r  __  *    mm   m mm   ME      *  *    11



- 42-                          ANNEX 1
Page 3
types of contracts are expected to be used (for instance lump sum contracts
defining activity schedules and allowing for payments per kilometer, etc.).
Adequate and cost-effective methods and standard documents are needed to
facilitate the administration of many small contracts, expected to amount to at
least 502 of the total routine maintenance activities. The rest will be carried
out by force account teams, which can significantly enhance their efficiency
through using a similar approach: more accurate definitions of the tasks, careful
preparation, better quality, and finally lower costs of the works.
12.   Implementation should commence early April, and proceed on a regular basis
throughout the year. It is important to ensure that sufficient funds should be
left to cope with the routine maintenance workload immediately after the wet
season, i.e. during February and March.
Specific Issues to be Addressed
13.   Difficulties encountered with the preparation and implementation of road
maintenance programs under the Second Rural Roads Project, have led to the
identification of four specific issues:
a.    The requirement for complete surveys to produce finite quantities for
budgeting routine maintenance is a tedious, time consuming exercise and is not
adapted to the nature of the works. Deletion of this survey and a move to global
costing will simplify the process and speed up operations, which is necessary to
meet the scale of the needs.
b.    Many kabupatens claim that they are not permitted to implement more
than one work type on an individual road section in one year.  This severely
restricts kabupaten operations and makes the implementation of maintenance under
the normal headings of routine and periodic impossible within a reasonable time
scale on some road sections.   It may also cause unacceptable delays to the
implementation of the first round of routine maintenance on newly constructed
projects.     Rescinding  this  ruling  whenever  necessary  will  allow  the
implementation of as many work types as necessary on a road section in a year.
C.    Some kabupatens also claim that no maintenance can be undertaken on
a section until the defects reach a certain level. Obviously, this would inhibit
good road maintenance practice and go against the desirability of a planned
maintenance program based on reasonable needs. It should be clarified to all
kabupatens that such a ruling has no validity.
d.    The late release of maintenance funds has had two consequences: (i)
the delayed carrying out of the maintenance program has been affected by the
rainy season, and (ii) it has promoted the expenditure of routine maintenance
rapidly over a too short period.   An early release of maintenance funding,
apportioned to routine and periodic, is a condition sine qua non for an efficient
utilization of the funds.
14.   To allow kabupatens to implement sound and practical road maintenance
programs, GOI has agreed to remove the above constraints. It is essential to
monitor the outcome, especially regarding the last point (para 13.d ).



- 43 -
------------------------------------______......__ . ..._____ _____
:~~~~~i   . ! .
_4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  --   - -----------------                 .....................__________________
------------------------
3-   -                               --I  - - -          j
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-            E        ,c.-J _!X __ 
3 z             T s X                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~J j     
PE~ ~ .1 '                                --s 0--    -    z
i~~~~~~~~~~~~1
i~~~~~~~~~~
0.~~o                                                    a                          0  .&.3   
I                           I                          U~~~~~I
I .t                                                               to .
-..    Z .                                                                     0|A _0f   
L~~~~:._ 2                                               __--   _     ___0
.kJ
oil



_44_                               ANNEX 1
Table 2
ROAD MAINTENANCE
RURAL ROA0S                                                          RATINGS FOR
ROAD CCNOITION                ONE KILOMETER
IEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME                     RATING
-- ---  - - - - --:            - - --                    - ---  -       ---_--_ -------------_
,REF.                         '   1      '      <        '    3
SvOE'      rYPE OF OEFECT                   ----------------------------------
;     :       ________:                       |GOOD  FAIR          POOR         3AO
I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~  ~ ~ --------    ------              --    -
A  :SURFACE APPEARANCE SEALED  : Oense      Open texture   Rough with   Pavement
;ROAOS (TEXTURE) (4000 m2)    texture  : with some      surface    Pbreaking u
I    I                           a '        , striocing      breaking up:
I                                    a _______ ____' ___ _ I-..,.a..-...... ________ I __  I
m3    :      ml            ma     '
S   3 S  'POTHOLES    Shallow dO c'       40      40 - 200      200 - 600      > 600
E      :             OeeP   )10 cm '  NIL           < < 40       40 - 200      > 200
L   C  :DEPRESSIONS
E                   Shallow < 5 cm '     200     200 - 400      400 - 2000     >2000
': o    |             oDeep   > 5 cm   NIL         <100         100 - 200      > 200
I   ,    I                           I          a               a            a 
R   0  :CRACKING                       < 100     100 - 500      500 - 1000     >1000
O :    :(AJllgator type)
A ,
O   E  :WHEEL TRACK RUTTING
' 5    :' '(includ1ng edge failure)     < 100    100 - 200      200 - 1000     >1000
I  I                             _                                          a_           a     _ __
SCORE FOR RATING           1            2             3             4
u      *                           : Routine  '  Routine    ' Regravel   :Holding Wks:
N '    '                           '          '(1ncl.Regrade)'
e
E   F  ',POTHOLES                  ,       50     50 - 200      200 - 1000     >1000
A      a                           a          *               a            a           a
L   G  :SOFT SPOTS                          100  100 - 200      200 - 1000     >1000
,O   H  :SURFACE EROSION               (100 <     100 - 200     200 - 1000 :  >1000
:   '    '(by wear or scour)''                                
a   a ,~    DWaOSOr                  a          a               a            a           a 
'O   I  :WHEEL TRACK RUTTING           < 200     200 - 500   ' 500 - 2000      >2000
A                                 @@@                               
0   J  :CORRUGATIONS                   < 100      100 - 500   ' 500 - 2000     >2000
|~~~~~~                            a *                       a             a *         a
a    a '                         ' 44 - 2X    <2X to Flat        Flat
a   * K  :CAMBER (Surface  Run-Off)   a                               &        No shaoe
a   a    a                           ,:(Camber)                     Uneven
___  * ___             ,      - od  __  _  __            & _      a_   
',Good shape. Uneven shape   Shid. High 'Shid. High
L   SHOULDERS                       &     :    Poor             or     '   or
*   .    a                           :crossfall , crossfall       low (10 cm :low >10 cm
SURVEY RATING        SEALEO /  ' 6 - 10  '   tt - t6         I T7 - 22   :  23 +
ANALYSIS :        ' UNSEALED  a            a              a
SOURCE: DGH - Guidelines for Prrvaration of the Kabupaten Road Maintenance Program,
November 1991



A'IX I      1
45  -                            Table 3
RVAL RADS                                   WSAD  iNimAIECS                            UIVTswAJEC  PWG3MU
UUV3LOPnihm   PtO03hJnn         *         tUTIVM TION  EVLS               _
BR?.                 X~~~~NTUVBN-
TYPEO  m   or DElICT    TIO          IXT3NT          ACTIO'N                    NOTES
LEVEL
A  TatxtUrs                  o2/bs      *a/bk   Local seeling      A toq sprWay o  emulsion * Y be
s.ippinq or tretting       zoo      :00-400                     sufficient to renew tho surface.
400   Surfsace Dressin
a  PothoLc-                  Ma/bs                                 Extensive  pat-hol&nq or raoid
(11 Shallow < 10 co        40                      Patch        dteerloration ot the road s4ruc-
(2) Deep    > 10 Ca        AnY               Patch or p-v"ernt lack of offectcxvo sfi nt n nce.
repairs           the caus* must b octerained and
a*,proVto ationL   takn.
Depressions               *Z/km
C  (I) snallow < 5 co         zoo                Surface patching  Depressions ar- usually caused
and levellng     by poor pavaemnt copaction or
S                                                                  u      ubgrad. m*olture problems.
C       (2) Deep    >5 co          Any          _      scavate to aub - Pavement  thickness  is  also
A                                                     grade compact and a factor Vd drainage should be
L                                                     /or strengthen    checked. The cause oust be do -
3                                                     euba rde           termined and appropriate action
O   -_   ___ _  _ __  _ ___     __ _  _ _  _ _  _ _     _ _  _ ___       taken._                   
a    D  Cracking                  m2lb/
O       (Alligator TYPe)           100                Soal cracks with  Sprayed surfacing or crack sea-
A                                                     bitumn emulsion  ling may be aufficiont if the
O                                                                       cranking is non-structural (:ur-
S                                                                        face). Where cracking is caused
by structural failure cracit sea-
Ling will temporally solve the
problm but the cause mout be
determined and ppropriate acti-
on taken.
8  Whoel track rutting       m2/k/
(including dgo fai -
lur-)
(1) Shallow   S cm         100         -     Level with         tor rutting the sam  comments
bituminou  six    as for reference code C (Depre-
(hot or cold)     saion   apply.
(2) Deep    ,S co          Any         -     Repair with hot
asphalt or pone -
tration Macadam
r  Potholes                  a2/be      *2/ko
50       50-200   till or regrade   Care  should  be taken in the
selectioa of gravel for repair-
ing pothole-. Both grading and
> 200   Rqgravel          pLasticity saould be checked.
Soft apots                  *zibe
too                xcavate and       Soft spots are usually caused
relnsate         by poor pavement material oam-
bied with moisture or subgradN
U                                                                       moisture problem.  The cause
N                                                                        must be determined  nd the ap -
S                                                                        propiate actoan take.
A    H  Surface Erosien           *2/bI      Ma/bi
L       (by we" or somw)           L00      100-200  nila or regrmad    See rterence code (0) Potblelo
U                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~for noet. on the selection ot
_                                          , 200    egravel           gravel.
3                        m~~~~~~~~2lbe  .Ziben
0       Wheel track ruttint        200       200-500  till or regrade   See reference code (a) Potholes
A                                                                        for ntes oan the seletion of
D                              _                200   Regravel           gravel.
S                           _   n2/=          -2b 
.2/be      eR/be
J  Corrugations               l00                serad  (scerlfY- The ex^me of corrugations
ing nay be requi- should be ace panled by local
red)              regravelling where the loss of
material (erosion) ezaceeds
_ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ~  ~   ____ _____            _______           200   mR/be
i  Camber                                 a Z  a  Correct by regrna- Short (1o ntres or loss) sec -
10    ding and addition tions of poor camber would normal
of gravel it no - ly be incuded under (C) Deprese-
c-ssary.           ions. Longer sections abould be
treatd regardle-w8 of lngth.
See reference cod (0) Potholes
for note oan the selction of
.__________________ .________   .________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   grav el.
L  Shoulders                _lO  -         _     Correct by trim-  No extent is given. the dfect.
wing or adding    even in short lengths. ti ha -
__________________                            gravel.           z.rdous and should be corrcted.
Notes   These intervention levels ar  in quantitiea  per kilometre.
SOURCE: DGH - Guidelines  for Preparation  of the Kabupaten Road Maintenance Program,
November 1991



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Component: Content and Implementation
Manpower Situation
1.       The Ministry of Public Works, employs a total of 14,000 staff at the
central level, with about 3,500 in DGH and 1,500 seconded to DPUPs an, DPUKs.
Professional staff directly involved with kabupaten roads at the central level
amount to about 130. At the DPUP and DPUK levels, it is not possible to
single out the numbers involved with kabupaten roads. There is a total
employment of 48,000 for public works activities in the kabupatens. It
appears that most staff at this level are somehow involved with technical
work, but in many cases, they have multi-disciplinary technical
responsibilities.
2.       At present, quality of operations and efficiency of work in the
subsector P.e seriously hampered by the shortage of skills at technical as
well as at managerial levels. Even though substantial investment has been
allocated for manpower development and training in the past, particularly
through consultancy services and training abroad, the quality of personnel has
not increased as fast as necessary. The reason for this slow develop -nt is
that training has not been integrated with actual operations, not bee; driven
by demand, and not been based on job performance. 'raining has been cfered
because it has been considered to be something good, but has not beoe matched
with requirements of jobs and its impact on job performance has 0'o.Lerally not
been assessed. Also, administration and management of training has been weak,
and DIKLAT Bina Marga is understaffed and lacks awareness of modern approaches
to training. In addition, the training offered has not been perceived by
potential trainees as improving career prospects and therefore has often not
been considered worthwhile. Linked with this is the problem that career
development is generally based more on administrative than technical
competence. Finally, investment in training abroad dess not appear to have
benefitted the selected staff to the expected extent as conditions and work
methods differ substantially between Indonesia and the countries offering the
training.
Organization of Training
3.       The organization for public works is complex in Indonesia with dual
relationships and responsibilities including involvement of both Ministries of
Public Works and Home Affairs at the provincial and kabupaten levels. This



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
complexity is also reflected in the organization of manpower development. The
responsibility for road training rests with DIKLAT Bina Marga, which is
structurally responsible to PUSDIKLAT of MPW. However, some of the staff of
DIKLAT Bina Marga are from DGH and nuch of the budget for training operations
is provided by the Secretariat of DGH. At the provincial level, training is
the responsibility of the Pedikprop, who is the provincial training officer of
the personnel department of the DPUP, which in turn reports to the provincial
Governor and structurally belongs to the Ministry of Home Affairs.
4.       At the Kabupater. level, the personnel officer of the DPUK is
responsiblo for training. As regards financing of training, both at the
provincial and Kabupaten levels, it is provided through DIKLAT Bina Marga at
the central level. At present, about 15 professional staff are involved with
training at the central level, while at the provincial and district levels
only a few administrators organize training programs. The coordination of all
training activities in MPW by PUSDIKLAT is still not well developed, resulting
in duplication and lack of standardization.
Training Needs Analysis
5.       As a result of slow progress in manpower development, GOI decided to
address the issues described above in a more systematic and scientific way for
staff working at all levels on kapupaten roads programs. With the help of
consultants, a training needs analysis (TNA) was carried out during the first
part of 1991 using a representative sample of 26 kabupatens and surveyin, an
additional 67.
6.       The TNA. has assessed the training needs by matching job descriptions
with actual qualifications and experience of employees, thereby establishing
the gaps translating into needs for training at the levels of DPUK, DPUP and
the Central Ministries. These needs have been divided into four general
categories; management, technical, administration, and professional
development. In general, the need for training stems from a low level of
formal education, lack of exposure to vocational training and inadequate
knowledge of procedures both technical and administrative; one of the highest
priorities is training for project managers.
Five-Year Training Plan
7.       The training needs analysis has provided the basis for a five-year
.Zabupaten Road Master Training Plan (KRMTP) recently prepared by GOI. The
training plan goes much further than proposing courses and programs to meet
training needs. It also specifies the institutional arrangements, the
infrastructure, and the linkages with other departments necessary for
successful implementation of all training activities.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.       The scope of KRHMTP in terms of actual training encompasses technical,
administrative, managerial, and supervisory cources and addresses the training
needs at the DPUK level, the provincial level and the central level. The
training sessions would vary between 3 and 10 days and would be carried out as
highly job related, often on-the-job sessions. The performance of trainees
would later be continuously monitored by the stakeholders; supervisors,
foremen, etc. These supervisors would therefore also be trained to assess
performance, increase productivity, etc. The concept of performance based
training means that all courses would be biased towards the practical
technical operations and that the training would be continuous, also
encompassing the actual performance in the job situation. The impact of
training would be measured against job performance, not as passing a test or
receiving a certificate as a step towards potential promotion. Training
programs to be offered address training needs in the area of project
management, road and bridge maintenance, road planning, work supervision,
laboratory practices, etc. The sessions are phased over five years and
arranged in chronological order based on estimated priorities.
9.       The full KRMTP includes 78 different training activities in support
of training for up to 14,000 staff through about 4,800 sessions. Given
implementation constraints, these targets could be achieved only on the very
long term. It has been estimated that offering a total of about 150,000
trainee-days in the most important training subjects (about 25) to about 6,200
staff in about 620 sessions would meet the priority requirements, would give
optimum productivity increase, and would be compatible with implementation
capability. This priority part of KRHTP would be included in the project.
Implementation
10.      The implementation of KRMTP necessitates a number of objectives to be
reached and related activities to be carried out as followss
(i)       establishment of a continuous training needs analysis
process;
(ii)      establishment of standard job classifications, job
descriptions and organizational arrangements in the DPUKs:
(iii)     improved training methods including materials, to achieve
higher standards based on competency and performance;
(iv)      decentralization of training delivery to the most cost
effective levels;
(v)       development of DIKLAT Bina Marga staff;



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(vi)      development of measurable links between training inputs and
technical work performance; and
(vii)     establishing a continuous monitoring and evaluation system
for nationwide kabupaten staff training.
11.      The present organization and staffing for manpower development at
central, provincial, and kabupaten levels need to be strengthened to
successfully implement the part of KRMTP included in the project. Therefore,
new staff need to be recruited by DIKLAT Bina Marga and consultants need to be
used to assist with key aspects of KRMTP and to prepare present and newly
recruited DIKLAT Bina Marga staff to be fully responsible for training at the
end of the project period.
12.      To achieve the targets within the stipulated time, key senior
consultants will be placed in line positions temporarily and have
responsibility for the initial implementation of the project's training
component. In parallel, a small number (about eight to ten) of graduate civil
engineers with basic experience (minimum two years) will be recruited to
assist the consultants and be exposed to prevalent issues in kapupaten road
training. These recruits will then participate in a short overseas tailor
made program, exposing them to essential aspects of training for such types of
roads, including course design, course delivery, on-the-job training, training
of trainers and stakeholders, course evaluation, materials preparation and
production etc. Meanwhile, tho consultants' team will have initiated
curriculum design, course preparation, training of trainers, etc. At the
return of the recruits, it is expected that the professional standard of
DIKLAT Bina Marga will be raised much and that it will take full
responsibility for the training of kabupaten road staff. There will still be
continued reliance on consultants beyond the end of the project period for
special and complex assignments.
13.      Consultancy services would include about 144 staff-months of foreign
consultants and about 1400 staff-months of local consultants (700 at
professional and 700 at sub-professional level) for management of the
implementation of the component, training needs analysis, program design,
training materials development, production of audiovisual aids, training of
trainers, monitoring and evaluation, and coordination in the field.
Estimated Cost
14.      The cost of implementation of the part of the plan identified for
Bank financing is presently estimated at about Rp. 23,516 million (US$11.8
million). This includes consultancy services, training of trainers in-country
and abroad, professional development of engineers in-country, development of
courses, training programs and associated materials, delivery of training
programs, and procurement of equipment. Below is a summary cost estimates



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
Table A2-1: TRAINING COMPONENT SUMMARY COST
Local           Foreign          Total
-----------US$ thousand-----------
Consultant Services
Foreign Consultants (144 r/r)                     --            2,170          2,170
Local Professional Consultants (700 r/r)          8,000         ---            8,000
Local Sub-professional Conaultants (700 r/r)        476         ---              476
Training Overseas
Fellowship training of 80 trainees for 6o each       90           406            495
incl. local language training predep
Professional Dovelopment Training. (Local)               400        ---               400
Equipmnt for Course Development
a.  Bine Marge Level                                 46            48             92
b.  Provincial Lovel                                 62           62             124
C.  Kabupaten Level                                  68            6a            126
Conausable Materials for Prolect Period
a.  Sins Marga Level                                 as            as             76
b.  Provincial Level                                168           156            812
C.  Kabupaten Levol                                 220           220            440
Training Package Preparation                             284          284             468
Delivery of Programs
Travel, subsistenc4, per dlem.
a.  OPUP, locatej                                   760         ---              760
b.  RTC, located                                  2,120        ---             2,120
c.  DPUK, Locat4ml                                  710         ---              710
rotal Base Cost                   ,ae4         a.894         11.768



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pro3ect Economic Evaluation Metnadology and Plannint Procedures
I. Overview
1.      In support of GOI's decentralization policy, a planning-programming-
budgeting system (PPB) for kabupaten roads was developed during Bank's Second
Rural Roads Development Project. This system takes into full account the
current GOI budgeting framework which consists of a set of bottom-up and top-
down inter- and intra-governmental conferences (RAKORBANG, RAKORNAS, and
RATEK). To overcome the existing institutional constraint, the initial design
of the system has been focused on: i) adoption of simplified economic
evaluation model that is simple enough for application by kabupaten staff but
retains analytical rigor in project selection; and ii) establishment of
procedures that ensure the application by kabupaten staff is consistent and
comparable.
2.      Based on the experience of the Second Rural Roads Development Project,
the appraisal mission has concluded that the evaluation models and procedures
are sound. Marginal improvements are expected to be incorporated continuously
in the procedures as more experience is gained and further research is carried
out on some of the major parameters and relationships used in the e'aluation
models. Further improvements will be made aiming in particular at achieving a
better integration of the procedures into the normal budget preparation
process of the kabupatens through, inter alia, better coordination of
schedules and format of documents. Such improvements are especially important
because the procedures have become, since 1990, the nationwide guidelines for
preparation of the IPJK component of the kabupaten budget.
3.      The gove.nment executing agencies are kabupaten planning teams,
provincial planning units (PBPJK within DPUP) and DGH. The kabupaten team is
made of four to eight part-time professionals from BAPPEDA II and DPUK, with
15 staff-months per annum allocatei to carry out the basic planning survey,
engineering survey and design, to assist in preparation annual work program
and budget, and to supervise engineering work. Team members would be given a
four-week off-duty training; on-the-job training is also provided on an ad hoc
basis. PBPJK is a full-time project unit, consisting of four to seven
professional staff. It is intended to serve as a link between DGH and
kabupatens. PBPJK's role will be strengthened by gradually taking over the
routine supervision and monitoring functions provided by Central Technical
Consultants (see below).
4.      In view of the situation that the kabupatens's capacity to implement
the procedures and that of DPUPs/DGH to assist and check the results which
still need to be strengthened, the project will provide local and foreign
consultants to help at key stages, monitor progress and quality of output,
fine tune the evaluation models and procedures, and help DGH take full charge
of the entire system. These services will be provided by Central Technical



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Consultants (CTC)1/. Furthermore, CTC is required to provide training for
all the kabupaten and PBPJK staff throughout Indonesia and to transfer the
core planning methodologies to its DGH counterpart, BIPRAN.
II. Project Economic Evaluation Models
5.      The following algorithm is used in designing the models: i) estimating
the unit road user cost; ii) assessing traffic composition and developments;
iii) determining traffic design class; iv) adjusting for maintenance
requirement; v) aggregating the results into "look-up tables"; and vi)
costing. At present the models only evaluate major works (betterment and
rehabilitation). The models have the following characteristics:
a) discrete road condition categories, each of which associated with
roughness and speed assumption, are used to assess VOC/time costs;
b) standardized assumptions are used regarding i) traffic composition and
passenger load; ii) benefits from generated traffic and modal
transfer; iii) traffic growth by region; and iv) maintenance costs of
*with' and 'without" project;
c) savings to non-motorized traffic are included by adjusting them to
four-wheel vehicle equivalents;
d) net economic benefits are expressed in net present value/kilometer
(NPV/km), with assumption of 10 years road service life and 1lO
discount rate; residual values of initial project investment are
excluded;
e) engineering costing is based on a detailed model which takes account
of the costs of local materials and labor.
A. Road User Costs
6.      Road user costs have two components:  i) VOC, and ii) Passenger time
cost. The RUC saving between "without" and "with" project alternatives is
estimated for representative vehicles and non-motorized modes.
(i) Vehicle Operating Cost
7.      VOC of Motorized Vehicles.  The motorized VOCs consist of distance and
time costs. Distance costs are calculated per km and are the sum of fuel
consumption, oil consumption, tire wear, repairs and maintenance, and distance
depreciation. The time costs are calculated per hour and are the sum of time
depreciation, interest, crew wages and related payments. These costs are
further affected by: (a) road surface condition (measured by roughness); (b)
travel speed; (c) traffic congestion (measured by the volume-capacity ratio);
and (d) road gradient. To simplified model, the road surface condition and
travel speed are reduced into one category, i.e., the roughness of the road
dictates the travel speed. Furthermore, the lowest level of congestion
1/      Services of the same type were already provided under the Second Rural
Roads Development Project.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(vcr=.6), reflecting free-flow conditionR, is assumed for all links. Two road
gradients are adopted: flat/rolling (0-5Z) and hilly (3-7Z). It is also
assumed that travel speed on hilly roads is 5 kph less than on flat roads on
the same roughness condition.
8.      The simplified VOC data were generated by an adapted GENMERRI
model2/. Physical consumption and financial prices are converted into the
economic costs, with the following adjustments:
- netting out taxes, duties, and subsidies and shadow pricing;
- excluding the financial overhead costs;
- applying the 'fleet substitutability factor," i.e., converting the
vehicle time saved into increased distance utilization (thereby
reduce the total fleet requirement)
Table A3-l: TECHNICAL PROFILE OF REPRESENTATIVE VEHICLES (1990 price)
Fuol    Engin-    Ti-      Carrying   Financial
Typo    Capacity  SiX.     Capacity  Price
Typo: Model                      (       (cc)                (P/t)     (Rp 000)
Motorcycle: Honda WIN              P         98   260-18        2p       2,190
Minibus: Mitoubish Colt 180        P       _1,Sf    600-14     lop      19,227
Pick-up: Mitsubish Colt 180        P       1,697   600-14       it      14,828
Bus: Toyota Dyna                   p       8 481   700-16     20-24p    89,153
L-Truck: Mitsubish Colt FE114      0       B,29S   700-16      a-St     26,640
M-Truck: Mitsubish Fuso FM 561H    D       6,919   825-20       7t      60,964
H-Truck: -- Fuso FM 616H with tailor    D  6,919   825-20      lEt      68,408
Car: Toyota Corol Il               P       1 296   660-18       Sp      44,802
Usy: Fuel Typo P=Potrol, D=DIesel; Corrying Capacity p=porsons, t=tons
9.      VOC of Non-motorized Traffic.  In addition to the VOCs of the
motorized vehicles, the VOCs of non-motorized traffic, including pedestrians,
pikulan, bicycles, becaks, and animal carts are also estimated, on the ground
that (a) they represent a significant amount of the kabupaten road traffic;
and (b) the diversion of traffic from non-motorized to motorized transport
following road improvement produces substantial RUC savings. Calculation of
economic costs of non-motorized traffic is based on relatively weak empirical
evidence. The main sources used are the surveys of non-motorized transport
carried out in six kabupatens in 1986/87.
10.     The personal time costs are the dominant non-motorized cost item.  A
distinction is drawn between "commercial" time, i.e.," operators" plying for
:ire, and "private" travel time, i.e., "operators" travelling principally on
their own account for personal reasons. It is assumed that half of observed
movements of pikulan, ox-carts, and packhorses are commercial and half are
private. Passenger bicycles and pedestrian movements are treated wholly
21      Generalized model for the evaluation of rural roads improvements, a
model first developed in Australia and used on national and provincial
roads in Indonesia throughout the 19809, based on the technical
profile of eight representative vehicles (Table A3-l).



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
private, while becak, horse-cart, and freight bicycles are treated wholly
commercial. Only the portion of time saving used at the same level of
transport demand is considered in the benefit of fleet reduction. To be
conservative, no more than one-third of commercial time savings is allowed in
the calculation. Whereas modal transfer is considered, however, for pikulan,
packhorses, ox-carts, time savings are fully credited since motor vehicles are
then explicitly substituted for non-motorized vehicle movements.
(ii) Passenger Time Cost
11.     The time saved that could be diverted to wage-earning activities is
valued in reference to "unskilled rural labor wage rates. "Shadow wage"
factors (.65-.8) were used to adjust for opportunity cost. Currently three
value-bands were used: high (Rp l90/hr) for Aceh, Sumut, Sumsel, and Outer
Islands, medium (Rp 155/hr) for Sumatra, and low (Rp 120/hr) for Java and NTT.
A further adjustment was made to assign a higher proportion of time value to
the situation where trip time savings represent a significant part of the
working day: 1.0 is used for all the currently non-motorable roads with
distance over 15 ki;  .75 for distance between 5 and 15 km, and .5 for less
than 5 km. A factor of .5 is used for all the currently motorable roads.
12.     The time savings are generally accounted for 32 (heavy trucks) to 201
(passenge. pick-up's) of the total RUC.  The total RUCs are summarized by
region (High, medium, and low) and by road gradient (flat, hilly), and by type
of vehicles.
B. Evaluation of Traffic Developments
13.     Two basic models are used to evaluate traffic developments:  i) the
"traffic counts method" for trafficable roads: and ii) the 'population
method" for where significant "suppressed traffic" presents due to access
constraints.
(i) The Traffic Counts Model
14.     Existing and Future Traffic.  Twelve-hour classified volume counts
were taken on one station per project link, covering one market day and one
non-market day. The counts were adjusted for hourly and daily variations
(Seasonal adjustment is not made due to lack of reliable statistical
reference). Standard benefit adjustment factors were used to calculate the
four-wheel vehicle equivalent for each region. In addition, since statistical
analysis of traffic composition revealed little significant variation in mix
of four-wheel vehicles between different classes of kabupaten roads a uniform
traffic composition was assumed for all the links.
15.     In anticipating the traffic growth, tailoring growth projections to
each individual project was impractical, for over 1,000 links need to be
evaluated each year; based on regional growth projections and assuming a
demand elasticity of income of about 1.0, two standard traffic growth rates
were adopted: 3-62 for Java and Kalbar; 6-9Z for Sumatra, Sulteng, and NTT.
16.     Traffic Generation.  It is assumed that most the RUC savings would be
passed straightforward onto producers and consumers due to a relatively
competitive trucking industry in Indonesia. The standard traffic generation



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
factors are estimated in Table A3-2.   The reduced VOC cost was translated
into the traffic generation benefit, assuming the price elasticity of
transport demand is about -1.0. Furthermore, the traffic generation effects
are assumed to be realized gradually: Year 0: 0 of full effect; Years 1-2:
25?; Years 3-4s 50?; 5 Year onward: 10O?. This translates into a .85 traffic
generation factor (with the discount rate of 10Z).
Table A3-2: ILLUSTRATIVE TRAFFIC GENERATION FACTORS
Exlsting Road Stat.           VOC              Genration Factor
Cost         (As X of ex Iting traffic)
Ill ustratl ve  Roughness    Reduction           Improved Road State
Condition       Code           (l)           Seal (6)       Gravel (7)
Fair *esi          7           0-12             0               0
Fair gravel        8           12-22            10              0
Poor a"aI          9           80-8a            8o             20
Poor gravel       10           40-44            40             80
Bad "aI           11           50-68            s0             40
Poor earth        12           67-41            60             s0
Bad gravel        18           61-64           a6              65
Bad earth         14           67-70            70             60
* Implied by change fro existing to improved road state
17.     Modal Transfer.   Transfer of non-motorized to motorized traffic
following road improvement constitutes a large part of the project benefit,
especially for low traffic roads. Based on the empirical evidence,
assumptions were made for roads improved from "bad" to "good/fair." Standard
passenger/freight load conversions are set as follows: For passenger pick-up:
7 passengers - 7 pedestrians; for freight pick-up: 600kg = 3 ox-carts = 24
pikulan - 12 backhorses. Modal transfer savings were converted to four-wheel
equivalents. Since modal transfer benefit is only significant in low traffic
roads, reductions have taken in benefit "look-up" tables from 100 ADT upwards.
(Ui) The Population Model
18.     The "traffic counts model" is not appropriate in dealing with the
situation where excessive access constraints exist, e.g., for earth tracks, or
footpaths where little motorized traffic could be observed. A model based on
the "suppressed trips" concept was developed. The "suppressed trips" are the
potential motorized trips that could not take place because their costs are
prohibitive. Chart A3-1 illustrates the relationship and difference between
the "normal" traffic model and the "suppressed" trip model. It shows that the
suppressed trip savings is simply the additional project benefit, to the
conventional normal and generated traffic savings. Chart A3-1 also indicates
that three pieces of information are required to calculate the project saving:
a) VOC of the improved road; b) traffic volume of the improved road; and c)
"prohibitive" cost.
19.     The Basic Value of a Suppressed Trip.  A controlled analysis estimated
that the motorized traffic on severely constraint roads was only about 5? of
that of a motorable road (controlling for population, income, distance to
market, etc.) Assuming an average price elasticity of demand is in the range



- 56-
Chart A3-1                                                                     Page 6
HYPOTHETICAL ILLUSTRATION OF SUPPRESSED TRAFFIC PROJECT
COMPARED WITH A CONVENTIONAL GENERATED TRAFFIC PROJECT
NOMINAL NORMAL TRAFFIC SAVINrS
60 5
Cl          -             PROHIBITIVE' COST
140
POTENTIAL SUPPRESSED TRIP SAVINGS
120
!0O   / 
', 801 K CONVENTIONAL GENERATED
TrPAFFIC SAVINGS
00
g  40     ' /
E? ~  ~     /
(DC3
e            t                  //1                            _   WTH' PROJECT COST
20
0   10  20   30   40  50   60   70   sO   90  100
T                         I
Tl                     T2                        T3
Traffic volume (Trips day)
Conventional g      _nerated traffic nroiet  (rough  road  surface,  but   no
significant acceas constraint)
Existing traffic = T2; projected traffic after improvement a T3
Existing cost    a C2; projecteu cost after improvement    = C3
Savings to existing ('normal') traffic = (C2-C3)T2   3250
Savings from generated traffic = 1/2 (C2-C3)(T3-T2)    1,625
Data required : C2, C3 (VOC data), T2 (traffic count), T3 from standard
generation factor related to road condition
SuoDressed traffic oroiect (severely constrained access)
Existing  traffic       Tl  z  nominal  5Z  of  potential  traffic   after
improvement which   T3
Prohibitive cost   C1; projected cost after improvement   C3
Savings to nominal ('normal') traffic = (Ci-C3) Ti - 625
Savings from suppresaed traffic = 1/2 (Cl-C3) (T3-Tl) = 5937
Data required : C3 (VOC data), T3 based on projected trip rate for
population/area; Cl determined by asaumed elasticity of demand curve.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
of -1.2 to -1.5, this implies a prohibitive cost of Rp 125-175/km (typical
passenger pick-up fares on 'good' roads are around Rp 25 per passenger km).
Independently, a study of 35 transmigration sites provided supporting evidence
that passengers on the worst road conditions often paid an equivalent of 6-7
times of the fare on the good/fair roads. The value of suppressed motorized
trip is therefore set as 6 times of the VOC of the motorable roads. The
suppressed trip benefit was then obtained by deducting average 'with' project
economic VOC/time cost per trip (weighted motorized trips). A factor of .15
was introduced to take into consideration an assumed lag in generated trip
development following road improvement. The formula to calculate the unit
suppressed trip benefit becomes: 5 x VOC of "good" motorable road x .5 x .85
20.     Access Constraint Assessment.  Two types of access constraints,
reliability and distance constraints, are identified to "fine-tune" the
suppressed trip values. The "reliability constraint" was classified into five
categories, measured by weeks of closure in a year. The "distance constraint"
was classified into three groups: (a) below 5km, which could be covered on
foot about one hour, implying a relatively low perceived cost in terms of time
and effort; (b) between 5-15km, which would take 2-4 hours to cover, implying
a higher cost of travel, but still allowing the same day return trips to be
made; and (c) over 15km, implying a sharp increase in perceived cost of
travel, bacause return trips on the same day is difficult. Higher values are
assigned (arbitrarily) to links with higher access constraints (see para 12).
21.     Measurement of Trip Rates.  A multiple regression analysis was carried
out on a data set of some 440 links under the Second Rural Roads Development
Project to explain the variation in motorized trips per capita per year.
Based on this exercise, a set of per capita per annum trip rates, by income
and trip distance was predicted. These results were used in aggregating the
total benefits.
22.     Valuation of Trip Benefits.  The total benefit is a sum of various
types of trips that are made ("suppressed," normal, generated, and modal
transfer). Explicit assumptions were made about the composition of trips for
each level of constraints identified above. By using standard benefit growth
rate (slightly above the growth of regional economy but with a ceiling of
10-12Z per annum) and a 10? discount rate, the present valued benefits per
trip were obtained for different degrees of access constraints and regions.
C. Traffic Design Class
23.     To facilitate a manual analysis, a matrix of traffic thresholds was
calculated for a range of road conditions and traffic growth rates which
indicated what level of existing traffic was needed to make switching to a
higher traffic design class likely following road improvement. For low
traffic roads allowance was made for diversion from non-motorized modes. For
simplicity, the traffic design class data were also incorporated in the "look-
up" tables used for the "population method."
D. Treatment of Maintenance Costs
24.     The model assumes that the roads would be maintained properly, i.e.,
interventions would occur during the project life span (routine maintenance
every year; periodic maintenance every three years for gravel roads and four



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
for sealed roads); intervention would keep the roads in the average existing
state, in the case of 'without' project, and average proposed state, in the
case of 'with" project. The present value of maintenance costs change per
kilometer (the difference between "with" and "without" project) was
incorporated as the net benefit in the "look-up" tables.
E. Deriving of "Look-up" Tables
25.     The 'look-up" tables show in aggregated form the present value of
gross benefits per kilometer expected from standard improvement of roads.
Different formats were used for "traffic count' and 'population' models. For
traffic counts model, the saving of road user costs and the net maintenance
cost change between 'with" and 'without' project were the basis for the
benefit 'look-up' tables that relate the existing traffic (four-wheel
equivalent ADT) to the existing road surface type/condition. The tables were
separately made for flat and hilly terrain roads, as well as regions. The
present value of the gross benefit/kilometer (PVGB) was calculated as:
PVGB - 1 (ADT x VPS x .85) - MC ] x TF
Where -
VPS : present value of annual savings per km in VOC/time for existing
traffic growing at a standard rate for the region;
.85 : present value of traffic generating factor;
HC : present value of standardized net maintenance change per km;
TF : terrain factor (=1.0: flat; 1.1 hilly).
26.     The benefits arrived by the "population method' was obtained from a
matrix of 'access code range" by population. A traffic design class code,
which was solely based on the size of population, was also included in the
table.  The present value of the gross benefit (PVGB) was calculated as:
PVGB = (D x E x P) - M
Where -
D : benefit value/trip/km
E : predicted motorized trips per capita with a good road
P : the population served by the project
M : the net maintenance costs per kilometer
F. Costing
27.     Standard engineering costing was adopted.  The costs of local
materials and labor were incorporated in costing and traffic design 'look-up'
tables.   With the road surface type, and condition, width, sub-grade quality
(measured by the CBR), ADT, and corresponding road design class number, the
total costs are indicated by these tables.
III. Planning Procedures
28.     The cycle of kabupaten road planning, programming, and budgeting
constitutes:  A) Basic Planning, B) Audit and Follow-up, C) Design and DURP
Preparation, and D) Eligibility Review and Certification (Chart A3-2). In
addition, 'post-construction monitoring' routines are conducted to monitor



Chart A3-2
PLANNING PREPARATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES FOR MAJOR WORKS
DEC   JAN   FEB  MMR I APR   MAY _   JUL   AUG   SEP  OCT   NOV   DEC  JAN   FEB  MAR  APM
PREPARATION *       BA SIC PLANNING STUDIES
I FRIN_E WOVK                                                                     B ASIC PLANNIG
I STUUDEES
PLAN NING SVEYS
PROGRAMMING
DESK
A UDIT
COMPUTER
L  !   II   T=DL.TtAUDI
FIELD
AUDIT
I  FOLLOW -UP
111     DESIGN + DURP
PREPARATION
IV    ELIGIBILITY REVIEW
_____   + CERTIFICATION
4                   4
*             ~~~~z
o                   0
I-~~~~



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10
construction quality and to accumulate time-series traffic and road data.
A. Basic Planning
29.     The basic planning is carried out by kabupaten planning teams in
accordance with the procedures laid out in the "Technical Guidelines for
Planning and Preliminary Programming of Kabupaten Roads."
30.     Framework and Preparatory Work.  The Framework and Preparatory Work
usually starts in December/January, fifteen months before the fiscal year
commences. The output is a series of completed or partially completed
inventory data forms, preliminary programming forms, and working maps.
31.     Basic Surveys.  The field survey starts one month following the
commencement of the Framework and Preparatory Work. The outputs are completed
survey forms for project costing, benefit estimation, and engineering design.
32.     Data Analysis and Evaluation.  This process usually starts in early
April, upon completion of the basic surveys. Currently only about 1/3 of the
kabupaten teams can perform this task without help from Field Advisors/PBPJK.
During the implementation of this project, it is intended that remaining
kabupaten and PBPJK staff be trained to do data analysis on their own. By
completion of this step, the cost, benefits, and NPV/KM for the trafficable
links would be obtained.
33.     Supplementary Studies.  For links where "normal" traffic is suppressed
due to high access constraints, the population and other parameters are used
to estimate the expected "normal" trip rates and, subsequently, the benefit.
By completing there steps, the costs, benefits, and NPV/KK for all the links
in the absence of "normal" traffic would be obtained.
34.     Preliminary Programming.  Preliminary programming involves preparing
"long" and "short" lists for major works and annual maintenance programs. The
long list contains all the candidate projects which are ranked by kabupaten
decision-makers, with benefit of knowing the NPV/KM of each link.
B. Audit and Follow-up Activities
35.     Audit starts in early July, as the planning data gradually become
available, and ends in November/December. To exert "quality control" over the
Basic Planning work is the mAain objective. Under the Second Rural Roads
Development Project, this work has been largely undertaken by CTC.
36.     Desk Audit.  Desk audit comprises review and checking of raw survey
data, photos and analysis forms, in order to (a) identify obvious omissions or
deficiencies in basic eurvey tabulation; (b) check judgement made in analysis,
especially project definition, road condition assessment and costing, and (c)
check the accuracy in completion of analysis forms. On average it is possible
for one of the CTC's planning staff to cover 20-25 projects per day, which are
about one average kabupaten annual program. If the upstream work was done
poorly, or the evaluations were predominantly done bl 'pop, -tion method,"
desk audit could be time-consuming. An audit status code (aL ?ted, needs
follow-up, and rejected) is added to the project.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 11
37.     Computer Audit.  The project data are entered in a computer database
at CTC. A number of error and consistency checks are incorporated in the
database programming to flag out apparent arithmetic errors, inconsistencies,
and improbable combinations of data. These may lead to further desk checking
and revision of analysis sheets or change in the recommendation code, flagging
further follow-up needs. The computer audit is fast and comprehensive, and
usually throws up discrepancies missed at the time of desk audit. However,
the computer audit is not a substitute for the desk audit as it is purely
mechanical and does not address issues of judgement.
38.     Field Audit.  Follow-up field visits are usually made by CTC staff for
a sample of projects over the period October to December. The scope of field
audit has been varying from year to year. In 1989 a large field audit in
Sumatra confirmed suspected widespread traffic data falsification; in 1;90 a
program of simultaneous spot-checking of traffic counts was undertaken by
kabupaten staff. These were generally directed at specific areas and projects
where problems had been identified.
39.     A systematic field audit procedure was instituted in 1991 whereby CTC
staff visited all IBRD funded kabupatens and checked most aspects of the
original survey and analysis performed by the kabupaten, including a review of
"carry-over" projects studied in earlier years. In most cases a cne-hour
"spot-check" count of traffic was carried out at the site of the original
count and the results were compared with the same hour in the original count.
In the end of the exercise, 44Z projects were accepted, 36? were accepted with
major changes, 8Z were rejected, and 12X were identified for further review.
C. Engineering Design and DURP Preparation
40.     Planning data in the "short-list" and "eligibility" forms for each
candidate project are passed to kabupaten DPUK and the field supervising
consultants as a basis for technical preparation of project documents
(engineering design and costing, budget preparation, etc.) for .pproval at
RATEK. This process takes place over the period October to March.
D. Planning and Design Eligibility Review
41.     An eligibility rev.ew procedure has been installed.  Standard forms
are used for key planning data for each project to be included for design.
The forms are intended to be completed by the TA Consultants or PBPJK
responsible for assisting the kabupaten. The purpose of this procedure is to
provide information to DGH on the status of project eligibility on both design
and planning grounds in the period between completion of the planning phase
and completion of the main IPJK budget document (SPABP) after RATEK. A
targeted timetable that details the events and timeframe is summarized in
Table A3-4.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 12
Table A3-4 TARGETED TIMETABLE FOR CRUCIAL PLANNING ACTIONS
TIME          ACTION                                     OUTPUT                   TAKEN BY
Doe/Jan       Framework and preparation studies          Selection of survey      K
are/network
Jan-March     Basic survoy on road conditions; speed;    K- and S-foms            K, aided
traffic volumjpopulation                                            by P/C
April-June    Analysis and evaluation                    A1,A2,A3; Manual P2      K, aided
by P/C
June 16       Preliminary programing; ranking            Ranked manual P2 at      K
projects on manual P2, and submitting It   kabupatons
to PBPJK/CTC
June 80       CTC ree ives Manual P2                     Ranked Manual P2 at      P
CTC
Late June     Preparation of mjor works list for         Pre-RAKORBANG D8.6;      K
RAKORBANG                                  Ps
mid-July      PBPJK/CTC receive copy of formal D8.6/P8   Post-RAKORBANG D8.5;    K/P
July-Sep      Matching, checking, and auditing;          Audited P2,P8; Blank    C
Preparation of PEI;  Data process:ng       PEI
August        P1 to CTC                                  Manual P1                K/P
Sep-Nov       Field audit and follow-up                  Further audited PS       C/P
Oct 1         PS to Kabupaten to note  viable            Audited PS in            C/P
projects                                   computer
October       Audited P1 to return to Kabupaten          Audited P1               C/P
Oct-Jan       Design and DURP preparation                DURP                     K/F/P
Dec a1        Final PS to IBRD with tentative funding    Final Pg                 Bine
sources                                                             Merge,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   *__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   aided   by   C
Jan 81        Eligibility review                         Completed PE1            F/C
Before        Summarizina certification from PE1;        P8 + Planning and        C
RATEK         Results to Bina Marge                      enginoering
_ _ _ _ __   eligibility
Before        Checking RPPIP2; Cancel projects not on    Signed RPPIP2            C
RPPIP2        Certification Table
After         Copy of RPPIP2 to CTC                      Final RPPIP2             Bin& Marge
RPPIP2
June 1        HR-1 to IBRO                               HR1                      CTC
Agency key:  K = kabupaten; P = PBPJK; C = CTC; F = Flld Implementation Consultants
E. Post Monitoring
42.      A small benefit monitoring program has been carried out since 1984,
covering two links of each of the 11 kabupatens covered by the First Rural
Roads Development Project.   It was subsequently expanded during the Second
Rural Roads Development Project. Currently 118 links are under closely
monitoring (including annual surveys of traffic volume, road condition/photo,
and traffic speed). Collection of soc!'o-economic data was not included
because satisfactory results had not been produced in the past.
43.       T..e purpose of this program is to (a) monitor general trends in
traffic and road condition;  (b) assess the impact of road improvement on
traffic, and (c) provide feedback to the planning progress. Many of the same



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 13
links are also covered by a separate "post-construction" monitoring in which
the Engineering Consultants monitor the construction quality by means of
detailed road surveys and photographic documentation every six months.
IV. Special Studies
44.     Special studies are conducted for areas there the "traffic counts" and
"population" models cannot be adequately applied, mainly for areas with great
development potential. A 'tailor-made' evaluatit- is used to handle this
situation. To do so, the analysts must have the basic economic evaluation
knowledge, which is the technical competence not generally po.ssessed by
kabupaten and provincial staff. Under the current arrangements, the kabupaten
will first conduct a "checklist" survey, which would confirm to CTC that it is
worthwhile sending staff to the field to conduct a special project evaluation;
then the Special Studies would be conducted selectively by CTC staff. These
will be feasibility studies based mainly on agricultural development benefits.
Standard TORs for these studies will be agreed with the Bank. It is expected
that only very few sub-projects may be justified by special studies.
V. Assessment of the Application and Future Improvements
45.     It is apparent that the objective to develop a planning system that is
simple enough for application consistently by kabupaten staff, but retains
analytical rigor to ensure that projects selected are economically
justifiable, has been achieved. The new system has successfully replaced the
old one, prior to the Second Rural Roads Development Project, that consisted
mainly of ad hoc pz.oposal submitted by kabupatens, unsupported by planning
data or evaluation of alternative options. Bank's field visits confirmed that
the kabupatens had been able to follow the planning procedures in the
"Guideline" book, and completed physical surveys on a substantial part of
their networks to a generally acceptable standard, with little supervision
from the Central and Provincial Governments. Some kabupatens were also able
to mechanically complete the analysis of the survey data and formulate the
preliminary programming form (P2 Long-list Form).
46.     There are, however, several issues that have to be dealt with in order
to make this system sustainable. The instability of staffing at the local
levels merits a concern. A CTC's survey of 50 originally trained PBPJK staff
indicated that about 40? of them had left. Similar incidents were also
reported at tle kabupaten level. Bank has recommended that DGH seek guarantee
from the local governments so that a trained staffer would not be allowed to a
within-the-grade transfer for two years after training.
47.     Falsification of traffic counts is another issue.  A systematic
auditing conducted by CTC in 89/90 revealed that traffic counts for two-thirds
of the projects might have been tampered for various reasons. It has been
decided that in this project the audit mechanisms would be strengthened.
48.     In this project, CTC is required to transfer the core evaluation
technology to DGH. This requires it to: (a) make certain that the
methodologies used the "Guidelines, are conceptually and theoretically sound;
(b) abstract the essence of the methodologies and further simplify them to
such a level such that updating can be mechanically carried out by staff in
the provinces, and be checked and modified by more sophisticated staff in DGH.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 14
In addition, a road deterioration model would be developed to enable
maintenance and major works to be evaluated on the same footing.
49.     Benefit monitoring would be expanded so as to give critical feedback
to the assumptions and parameters used in economic evaluation. This includes:
a) some development benefits/costs (vital signs of socio-economic well-being)
would be monitored for a subset of samples; and b) monitored links would be
expanded to covered new links that were evaluated by the population model.



INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Network Lenath by Road Class and Island Groun
(kilometers)
Road:                                                   Nusa I_                           Maluku &  Total for
Cl..                    Sumatra       Java     Ball   Tenggara  Kaliaantan  Sulawesi  Irian Jaya  Indonesia
National:   Arterial        5,451     2,603      280       1,567       1,844     2,603          426     14,774
Collector        911       485        36        505          140       198         371      2,646
Local              0         0         0          0           0          0          35         35
Subtotal                6.362      3.088     .316      2.072        1.984     2.801         832      17,455
Provincial: Arterial          160        36        1           0          18         0            0        214
Collector     10,782     6,639       44'      2,937       3,932      5,486       2,802     33,025
Local            446       531        43        336          66        288         166      1,876         U'
Subtotal                11.388     7.206      490      3,273        4.016     5.774       2.968      35.115
Toll Roads                     35       313        0           0           0         0            0        348
Kabupaten Roads            48,614    47,746    3,399      14,198      15,097    22,857        3,717    155,628
Urbsn Roads                 9,737    16,297      918       1,618       3,179     3,145        1,202     36,123
Transmigration Roads lb    3,564        130        0           0         860       734           58      5,346
TOTAL                79.700    74.780    5.123      21.160       25.136    35.341       8.778    250.018
Source: DGH, 1990.
la          Includes Timor Timur.
Ib          Data is for 1988.



INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Pavement by Road Class and Island Group
(percentage of the road network in each category)
Maluku
Road                            Java-                 Nusa                              Irian Jaya
Class                Sumatra   Bali   Jakarta   Tenggara   Kalimantan  Sulawesi   Timor Timur  Indonesia
National:  Paved         89       100        -         85           69         75             54          83
Unpaved       11        0         -        15            31        25             46           17            0
Provincial:Paved         73        97        -         50           37         60             35          66
Unpaved      27         3         -        50            63        40             65          34
Kabupaten: Paved         30        64        -         20           16         27             39          39
Unpaved      70        36         -        80            84        73             61          61
Urban:     Paved         60        70       85         63           58         66            69           67
Unpaved      40        30        15        37            42        44             31          33
Source:  DGH, 1989 (national, provincial and urban roads) and 1990 (kabupaten roads).
I."



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Condition of the National, Provincial and Kabupaten Road Networks (1990)
Islind aroup:    Percentage of the Road Network in Indicated Condition
National and Provincial Roads
Good     Fair      Poor      Bad
IRI       IRI       IRI      IRI
<6       6-8      8-12      >12
Sumatra                        50        10        22       18
Java/Bali                       65       19        14        2
Kalimantan                     32         8        16       44
other Islands                   32       14        28       26
Indonesia   45        13       22        20
Kabupaten Roads
Good     Fair      Poor      Bad
Indonesia   27        19       33        21
Source: DGH, 1990 kabupaten roads inventory (adjusted on basis of planning
surveys).
1991 national and provincial roads condition survey.



- 68 -
ANNEX 7-
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles (1980-1990) in Indonesia
Cars &
Year             Pickups          Buses         Trucks              TOTAL
(number of vehicles)
1980             639,464          86,284        473,831           1,199,579
1981             710,937         110,103        575,426           1,396,466
1982             791,019         134,430        657,104           1,582,553
1983             865,940         160,260        713,873           1,740,073
1984             927,148         191,654        790,881           1,909,683
1985             989,158         227,304        845,338           2,061,800
1986           1,063,958         256,574        882,331           2,202,863
1987           1,170,103         3-3,378        953,694           2,427,175
1988           1,073,106         385,731        892,581           2,351,418
1989           1,182,253         438,827        952,461           2,573,541
1990           1,313,210         472,717      1,020,129           2,806,056
Growth Rate (%)
1980/81            11.2            27.6           21.4               16.4
1981/82            11.3            22.1           14.2               13.3
1982/83             9.5            19.2            8.6                9.9
1983/84             7.1            19.6           10.8                9.7
1984/85             6.7            18.6            6.9                8.0
1985/86             7.6            12.9            4.4                6.8
1986/87            10.0            18.2            8.1               10.2
1987/88            -8.3            27.1            -6.4              -3.1
1988/89            10.2            13.8            6.7                9.4
1989/90            11.1             7.7            7.1                9.0
Source:  Biro Pusat Statistics--Figures are based on new vehicle registration
(without adequate allowance for scrappings).



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Kabupatens and Their Road Network
PROVINCE                     Lenath of Roads According to Condition
Kabupaten                Good   S   Fair   I   Poor   Z       Bad   Z    Total
A C E H
Aceh Utara                543  39    786  57       54   4        4   0    1,388
AcMh Timur                113  11    854  83       58   6        9   1    1,033
Aceh Tengah                61  12    372  71       69  13       21   4      523
Aceh Barat                435  40    430  40    151  14         72   7    1,089
Ac.h Selatan              202  27    258  35    276  37          8   1      744
Aceh Tenggara              51  16    118  36       85  26       70  22      323
ceh Besar                 275  25    245  22    582  52          9   1    1,111
Pidie                      60   8    207  29    324  45       126  18       716
NORTH SUMATRA
Deli Serdang              276  24    586  51    200  18         78   7    1,140
Asahan                    107  16    371  54    172  25         34   5      684
Simalungun                299  24    550  45    351  29        27   2    1,227
Tanah Karo                198  21    439  46    253  27        63   7       953
Langkat                   173  22    339  43    227  29         47   6      785
Tapanuli Tengah            49  15    156  46    108  32        24   7       337
Tapanuli Utara            622  33   405  26    590  31        195  10    1,901
Tapanuli Selatan          128   6   1074  52    812  39        60   3    2,073
Dairi                     197  23    231  26    383  44         64   7      875
Labuhan Batu              492  34    138  10    309  21       499  35    1,437
N 1 a a                   205  29      84  12    322  46       92  13       703
WEST SUMATRA
Sclok                     510  35    637  44    250  17        50   3    1,447
Pasaman                   217  14    762  50    311  20       234  15    1,524
Posiair Selatan           206  19    430  40    375  35        59   5    1,069
Tanah Datar               122  14    288  33    362  42        98  11       869
Sawahlunto/lSijunjung     280  26    191  18    525  48        88   8    1,085
Padang Pariamin             3   0    315  44    352  49        41   6       711
Limapuluh Kota            130  14    195  22    493  54        87  10       906
A g a m                    97   9    107  10    697  66        161  15    1,062
J A M B I
Batang Hari               599  59    354  35       57   6        1   0    1,010
Tanjung Jabung            530  69    152  20       82  11        1   0      766
Kerinci                   308  76      33   8      63  15        0   0      404
Bungo Tabo                889  73      97   8    170  14       59   5    1,215
Sarolangun Bangko         754  46    482  29    366  22         44   3    1,646
(cont.)



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
Proiect KabuiRatens and Their Road Network (cont'd)
PROVINCE                     Lenath of Roads Accordina to Condition
Kabupaten                Good   2   Fair   2   Poor   2       Bad   Z    Total
BENGKULU
Bengkulu Utara            674  68    190  19    115  12          9   1      988
Rejang Lebong             400  68      84  14    110  17         8   1      591
BengkiAlu Selatan         134  20    139  20       88  13     317  47       677
SOUTH SUMATRA
Muara Enim                240  18    482  35    422  31       218  15    1,363
Belitung                  174  26    175  26    222  33       108  16       679
Ogan Komering Ulu         202  21    272  29    225  24       251  26       950
Bangka                    240  15    553  34    466  29       356  22    1,614
Husi Rawas                182  22    202  25    241  30        187  23      811
Musi Banyu Asin           118  11    260  25    361  35       293  28    1,033
Ogan Komering Ilir         28   3    175  21    207  24       439  52       850
Lahat                      57   7    140  17    351  42       290  35       838
LAMPUNG
Lampung Selatan           528  42    492  40    183  15         41   3    1,243
Lampung Tengah            533  41    492  38    226  17         42   3    1,292
*Lampung Utara,            219  15    796  56    333  23        70   5    1,418
Lampung Barati
WEST JAVA
Subang                    441  39    626  55       61   5       3   0    1,131
Cirebon                   298  62    149  31       31   6        0   0      478
Bogor                     191  17    827  73    118  10          3   0    1,139
Kuningan                  110  25    255  57       46  10       34   8      445
Tasikmalaya                44   6    537  71    126  17         45   6      752
Pandeglang                185  28    323  49    127  19         28   4      663
Indramayu                 149  23    339  53    125  20        25   4       637
Sukabumi                  513  31    735  44    339  20        75   4    1,661
Ciamis                     32   6    363  66    109  20         47   9      551
Tangerang                 512  64      60   7    201  25        26   3      799
L*bak                     175  45      95  24    107  27        15   4      391
Puivakarta                 92  26    143  40       87  24      33   9       355
Bandung                   254  20    546  43    395  31        87   7    1,281
Majalengka                141  21    240  36    252  38         38   6      671
Garut                      85  11    335  43    289  37         73   9      781
Bekasi                     62  10    252  42    261  43        28   5       603
Cianjur                   176  24    203  28    305  42         46   6      730
Serang                     90  11    290  36    236  30        180  23      796
Sumedong                  110  19    152  26    201  35       118  20       580
Karawang                   89  12    189  25    480  63          7   1      765



- 71 -
lANNEX 8
Page 3
Pro1ect  abuDateng and Their Road Network (cont'd)
PROVINCE                     Length of Roads Acgording to Condition
Rabupaten                Good   S   Fair   Z   Poor   Z       Bad   I    Total
WEST KALIMANTAN
Samba.                    231  13    930  53    461  26       128   7    1,750
Pontianak                 299  28    324  30    424  40        24   2    1,070
Siutang                    81   7    460  41    379  34       193  17    1,113
Sanggau                   223  18    316  25    470  38       234  19    1,242
Kapues Hulu               122  14    141  16    505  58        110  12      877
gotapang                    3   0    186  21    435  50       247  28       871
NQTML                17.566      25.236     19.533        6.899        69.234
Sources DOH, 1990 kabupaten roads inventory (without adjustment on basis of
planning surveys).



ANNEX 9
THIRD KABUPATEtJ ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design Standards for Kabupaten Roads and Bridges
ROAD CLASSIFICATION              CLASS m  A                   CLASS m 81               CLASS m 82                  CLASS 1M C
SURFACE  TYPE              ASPHALT SURFACE               ASPHALT SEAL                  GRAVEL                 GRAVEL/ AWCAS
TRAFFIC VOLUME : ADT
TRAFFIC VOLUME.AT                     > 500                   500- 201                   200-50                         < 50
I TRAFFIC DE6IGN CLASS 1              14)                       I                          1 I  t21                     tI)           I
FLAT TO            MOUNT- FLAT TO            MOUNT-  FLAT TO            MOUNT-  FLAT TO             MOUNT-
T E R R A I N           ROLLING   HILLY    AIMNG    fL^  TC  HILLY    AINOUS   ROLLNG   HILLY   AUNOUS   ROLLIN    HILLY   AINOUS
TRAFFIC   LANES             2        2        2       14       I1+      1+       1+       I+       1+        I        I        I
DESIGN            D Ess"mAI     S0       60       40       60       40       30       s0       40       so       so        30      25
I itm/Hr I                .               .
SPEED             WurMu,A       50       40       30       40       30       30       '40      30       30       30        30      20
GRADIENT           ANIMUWA       6        a        10       a        10      12        I       10       12        9        12      14
IUMITTINSI        OfIDes         3        6        a        6         8       10       6        a        to       7        10       12
PAVEMENT          OEIA"LK       5.5      5.5     5O       350       5-0      5 0      4-5      45      4-5      4-5      4-5    :4-5       -
WIDTH       I    oum            4-5      4-5      4-5      35       35       3-5      3.5      3-5 3S5           3-0      3-0      3-0
SHOULDER          afIm.         2*0      1-5      1-       1-5     1.25     1-0      1-5      1-0      1-0      1.0      1-0      O-75
WIDTH             MIMIMU        I .5    1 25      1-25     1-25     1.0      1-0      1-0      -C       1-0      0 75     0 75     0-75
__-~ ~ ~~~~________                                                                                          ___
ROADBED           0seumam.9     9-5     0*5       *5       e*o    7r0 7o0 T-o                  **5      6-5      6-5      6-5      6-0
(Ml                                                                                                          __
WIDTH             maimmum       7-5      7-0      r-0      6-0      6-0      5-5      0-5      5-5     5O        4.5      4.5       4-5
RIGHT             DEUAUIS.G                           18a           1GM                        IGM                        16 W
.          IRO.W.I
Or wT             MINAUA                1GM                        12M                        12V                        12 M
RIOADOPIVEMET                                          3%           431.%                   4%-6%              _ _ _ __ _
I MAXAMIM_
CAMBER            SHOULDER             4%- S%                     5%-6%                      6%-6%-
_ _ U TITANODMOOVEwAwr            T-OM                       T-OM                     r7o-                         5's5A
*  30
1               N                s-ON                        0-OM                      6-oM                        4-5M
JUAW"STIANDN10OKOmML 7W -ON                                T-OM                       T-OM                        S-sm
).501a TWItT  SOE t^ WALKI mil       6- 0                        60M                       6  -O                       4-SM
ITEMPORlARY BRIDGE I moMIMMI            3-G0M                      3 -Om                      3-CM                       30OM
BRDGIE D_IGN LOADO  IMINIUMI        70%, D                     70%BM                      TO%SM              To0% am 50% Itmporar I
SOURCE:  IC11 - Tecinical Cuidellnes for Engineering Survey an<l Design of Kabupaten Roads, December 1991



- 73 -
ANNEX 10
INDONISIA
THIRD KABUPATBR ROADS DBVULOPHINT PROJECT
List of Equipment
Unit Price    Quantity   Total Cost/a
(USS)                    (USS)
a) Roadwork Equipment
Bulldozerf+URipper         120 HP    110,000        2           220,000
Motor Grader + Ripper      110 Hf     76,000        11          836,000
Wheel Loader               1.2 m      72,000        4          288,000
3 Wheel Roller             10 TON     40,000       54         2,160,000
Pedestrian Roller          250 KG     11,000         1           11,000
Mechanical Plate Comp.     80 KG       2,100        27           56,700
Water Pump                  3-4"       2,100         7           14,700
Concrete Mixer             125 Lit     1,600         1            1,600
Stone Crusher              30 TPH    150,000         2          300,000
Dump Trucks                 5 T       35,000         3          105,000
Pick Up                     1 T       10,000         6           60,000
Motor Cycle                125 CC      1,100        13           14,300
Service Pick Up             1 T       11,000         3           33,000
Generator                  30 KVA      7,000         3           21,000
Air Compressor             125 CFM    11,000         3           33,000
Radio SSB                              2,200         1 set        2,200
Metal Str. Wound Bit. Hose 25 mm0      47/lm       2200 lm      103,400
Subtotal                                                4,259,900
Spare parts (15%)                                         623,475
Distribution Cost (8%)                                    390,625
Total Roadwork Equipment                                5,274,000
b)  Workshop Equipment                                                100,000
c)  Training Equipment and Materials                                  740,000
d) Laboratory Equipment
DCP                                  600          65           39,000
CBR Laboratory                     2,750           2            5,500
Compaction Set                       750           2            1,500
Drying Oven                        3,200           6           19,200
Sand Cone                            300         67            2C,100
Liquid Limit Test                    275          91           25,025
Plastic Limit Test                   100         93             9,300
Gradation                          2,500          66          165,000
Speedy Moisture                    3,000         38           114,000
Balance 20 kg x 1                  2,500           5           12,500
2600 gr x 0.1                 750         20            15,000
200 gr x 0.01                875         23            20,125
Los Angeles                        6,750          65          438,750
Concrete Block Tester             15,000          38          570,000
Slump Cone                           650           2            1,300
Organic Impurities                 1,100          17           18,700
Allowance for South Sumatra kab.                              180,000
Total Laboratory Equipment                               1,655,000
Grand Total                                              7,769,000
/a Costs are net of taxes.



INDONESIA
TH5RD KASUPATEN ROAD8 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Works Componed
DoeWged Cod Table
Rupkb
quantity                Unit Cost                    Bass Costs
92J9a  90894   94/95   Total        92-90         92/90     98/90     94/95      Tote l
A. Clvil Works
Road bettermant           1W00   1460    1460    4220         61.00     105300.0  110280.0  186260.0 841620.0
P-riodic maint. *seled    1796    8054    4100   6900         25.60      45790.0  77677.0  104660.0  228226.0
Periodic  aint. gravel    449       761    1020    2280       11.11       4908.4   0454.7  11832.2   24775.8
Routine maintenance      15410   21010   24720   01140         2.44      87600.4   51264.4   0316.0  149181.6
Sub-Total                                                                108686.8  25506.1  204459.0  744001.9
B. Supervision                    -       -       -       -           -        1600 0   19000.0  19000.0  58600.0
ToW RCAD WORKS COSTS                                                            209826.8  274656.1  813469.0  797601.9
Quantitie  In 2kil oter  - cost  in million units.
Totals Including Contingenclo
(Cont'd)                            Totals Including Contingencies                        USS
92/93     93/94     94/96     Total      02/09  90/04   94/96   Total
A. Civil Works
Road bettermnt          119419.7  142048.0  160427.6  411696.4        59.1    09.0    71.0   199.7
Periodle mint. sealed   61939.1   98542.0  132988.4  278469.4         26.7    46.4   68.8  184.4
Periodic saint. gravel    5667.8   10165.4   14414.6   80227.8         2.8     4.9     6.9    14.6
Routine  aintennnce      42642.8   61676.2   76728.4  180941.9        21.1    29.9    86.6    87.5
Sub-Total                21065.4  807821.6  874664.1  900164.0        108.7   149.2   176.4   436.3
9. Supervision                17092.9   22822.1   24166.9   64601.8         8.8    11.1    11.6   31.8
Total ROAD                _________ _________ COS3 12 01_______0_________ 1  1
Total ROAD tORKS COSTS          237861.2  880143.6  396721.0  043215.0       117.5   160.8   169.9   467.6                           



INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary Account by Project Component
Rupiab
Project Components
Physical           Price
Road              Instit./                    Contingencies      Contingencies
Road    Workshop   equipt   Training   tech.                       ----------- ----
Cetesoiw et Exeenditur.works    end labe  program    comipon't Devolopt.          Total         I     Amount       U   Amount
,,stWry of Engenitur,
A. Civil Works
1. lettemr  t                    841020.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0  841820.0       10.0   34182.0    10.6   36893.4
2. Per. mlnt. *sled             225225.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0  225226.0       10.0   22822.6    12.0   27421.9
S. PFr. baint. Oravol             247M7.5        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0   24775.8       10.0    2477.5    12.0    2974.6
4. Reutlme gMinteua'ce            140181.6       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0  149191.6       10.0   14910.2    11.3   16842.2
S. Fecilitles.const..                 0.0      500.0       0.0        0.0        4.0      600.0      10.0       60.0    11.0       58.1
6. Facilitie  upgrading               0.0    2160.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    2160.0       10.0      216.0    10.4      226.0
Sub-total                         744001.9    2860.0        0.0        0.0        0.0  748661.9       10.0   74060.2    11.2   83416.0
. Equipment                            0.0    860.0   11600.0    1480.0           0.0   16980.0       10.0    1693.0    10.1    1704.2
C. overeese Training                   0.0        0.0       0.0      610.0        0.0    820.0        10.0       88.0     6.9       60.5
0. Local Prof isal Trg                 0.0        0.0        0.0     440.0        0.0     440.0       10.0       44.0    18.7       60.2
E. Tr 1aim g Delivery                  0.0        0.0       0.0    2450.0         0.0    2460.0       10.0      246.0    15 0      U80.6
f. Ceesultants Sorvics             658800.0       0.0       0.0   11160.0   19600.0   64250.0         10.0    6425.0    10.7    9058.7
Total SASELrIE COSTS              797601.9   06510.0   11600.0   16400.0   19500.0  C61611.9          10.0   56161.2    11.1   94662.2
Physical Lontingeaelo             797C:.2    O61.0    1160.0    1640.0    1950.0   O5161.2
Price Centi gneloo*es             668.0    060.4    1169.1    1910.1    2070.9   94"62.2             9.1    806.7
Totel PROJECT COSTS               966215.8    7821.4   18919.1   1956.1   28520.9 1081435.8            9.1   98766.8      9.2   04602.2
Tames                            6725.        711.6    1266.6    1310.2    2140.4   98660.6          9.1    C682.8
Formlio Exchange                810454.8    4723.0   11031.6    8778.4   12906.J  846718.9           9.1   31701.7
Val1 Sc led by 1000000.0
V-I



- 76 -
ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
bLoanimond al    t2                           '
Mid-term review
Works
Annual p   evgie sie   c ( 
Betterment 
Workshopflabs
Goods
Equipment
Consultancles
Road supervision 
Institutonal and                                                -    --    
techin. development (1)
Environmental support                                           ----=  ==   
TraInng (1)                                                                              ----
Trairilna Implementaedion
Courses delivery (2)                                                --  --- =- 
Professional training (2)                                                                 - - - - -    -.  -
Note: part of technical assistance (1) and training program (2) to be funded under proposed KRF! Oroject.



- 77 -
ANNEX 13
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule /a
(USS million)
IBRD fiscal year                               Cumulative        Cumulative
and semester              Disbursements       disbursements    percentage
1993
December 31, 1992          10                    10                5
June 30, 1993              18                    28              13
1994
December 31, 1993          29                    57              26
June 30, 1994              35                    92              43
1995
December 31, 1994          40                   132              61
June 30, 1995              40                   172              80
1996
December 31, 1995          30                   202              94
June 30, 1996              13                   215             100
/a   Assumes loan effectiveness  in September 1992. and use of retroactive
financing.



- 78 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Reporting Requirements
Various types of reports will be generated under the project to meet GOI's
reporting requirements and feed into its monitoring system:
- monthly reports produced by the Field Consultants for Implementation
(FCIs), the Training Consultants, and the Central Technical Consultants
(CTC), providing details on the project, the contracts, implementation
progress, and payments.
- quarterly reports prepared by the same consultants and giving, in
addition to a progress summary, an evaluation of problems encountered and
proposed solutions.
2.    The  Bank's  reporting  requirements  will  be  a  subset  of  the  above
information, in the form of a quarterly package to be assembled by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and including: (i) the CTC quarterly report prepared
in accordance with the sub-paras below, and (ii) the other quarterly reports as
annexes to the CTC's one. This package should be sent to the Bank by the last day
of the month following the concerned quarter. The specific requirements are as
follows:
a) Each report should not only record progress in project implementation,
but also identify emerging problems and suggest solutions to achieve
project objectives.
b) The CTC report should cover all aspects of project components. It
should consolidate and summarize the FCIs and Training reports, and
elaborate more on the other aspects: engineering, planning, environment,
and special studies. The information should be given in such detail as to
permit an assessment of the performance of each kabupaten.
c) The basic data for the project, contracts, implementation progress and
payments details are the same as the ones used for reporting on on-going
projects, especially the Highway Sector Project.
d) The consolidation of the FCIs reports will be done easily if all
consultants are using the same formats. The PIU will define such formats
which, once agreed, would become the norm. This will facilitate the timely
release of the periodic reports.
3.    In addition to the above reporting requirements, a set of performance
indicators has been defined as follows:
- amount budgeted for maintenance annually, per kabupaten and per province;



- 79 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2
- amount budgeted annually for operation and maintenance of kabupaten
equipment and workshops;
- date of release of annual budget allocations for maintenance;
- number of training packages developed;
- annual number of trainees, training sessions, and trainee days
under the training program.
These indicators, together with the physical achievements compared to the
targets, will be monitored throughout project supervision to allow for a periodic
assessment of project performance.



- 80 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.          Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.
a.    The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports,
procurement actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated for this
project to require four staff weeks per year).
b.    Each of the nine provinces should be visited at least once during
project supervision and two or three selected provinces should be
visited twice. The geographic concentration of the provinces should
help in this respect. However, supervision missions should focus in
each field visit on only a few kabupatens which would be deemed
typical because of their geographical characteristics and their
performance, as shown by the progress reports.
C.    Staff from the Resident Mission will be involved to a large extent
in the supervision of this project, in particular in the random ex-
post review of the large amount of LCB-procured civil works
contracts and SOE documentation.
d.    Most of GOI's work for improving systems and procedures will be
carried out in Jakarta, and will therefore be supervised there by
Bank missions.
2.          Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
a.    A Project Launch Workshop was organized by GOI in A-ril 1992.  In
relation with the advance contracting authorized under this project,
this Workshop was held early enough to coincide with detailed
preparation of the first year program.
b.    Project coordination will be the responsibility of the Project
Secretariat (PS).  In particular the PS will be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions. The Project
Implementation Unit will be responsible for providing information
required by missions.
c.    Progress reports are to be submitted quarterly, and their content
should meet the requirements set forth in Annez 14



- 81 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate
Dates                                                      Skill       Sta-ff Input
(month/year)             Activity                         Requirements   s t a f f -
weeks)
A. Preparation for advance contracting
11-12/91    Review of TOR and invitation package          HE, TE )          4
package for FCI and CTC consultancies        ENV, TR)
02-04/92    Review of standard bidding documents          HE, TE )          3
Publication of General Procurement           PR      )
Notice
Review of Award proposals for
FCI and CTC
06-07/92    Review of first year works contracts          HE, TE            2
and briefing of consultants
B. After loan sianing
09-10/92    Supervision mission                           HE, TE            4
(to review start-up of civil works
and consultancy services,
implementation of organizational
arrangements, progress in planning
and environmental studies for 1993/94
program)
11-12/92    Assist in preparation of 1993/94              HE, TE )          2
program on the basis of experience           ENV, TR)
of 1992/93 program.
01-02/93    Supervision Nlssion                           HE, TE)           8
(to discuss 1993/94 program proposals,       ENV, TR)
evaluation of performance of kabupatens
in carrying out maintenance, environ-
mental se!reening and EIAs, and inception
report of training consultants)
05-06/93    Supervlsiun Mission                           HE, TE            4
(to review, inter alia, second year
works contracts and progress in program
of studies)



- 82 -
ANNEX 15
Page 3
09-10/93    Supervision Aission                         HE, TE)           8
(mid-term PIR to review all aspects of     ENV, TR)
the project, especially performance
under loan conditions, adequacy of project
organizational arrangements, quality of
consultancy services and impact of the
project on the performance of road agencies)
11-12/93    Assist in preparation of 1994/95            id.              2
program
1994        Three Supervision Missions                  id.             16
1995        Three Supervision Missions                  id.             12
1996        Two Supervision Missions                    id.              8
(including one to prepare PCR)
_.___________________
HE - Highway Engineering, TE - Transport Economics, ENV - Environment,
TR - Training



- 83 -
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Main Economic Features of Prolposed First Year Rehabilitation/Imorovement Works
Number of        Length       Cost /a      EIRR
subprojects   (km)      Z      (Rp mln)  (Average)
TOTAL                               345      1,903            138,330
Seal                              276      1,476    77.5   107,903
Gravel                             69        428    22.5    30,427
BRIDGES                             335      3,515   (Meter)  11,064
SERVING PURPOSE
General Purpose                   274      1,481    77.8   108,751
Strategic Network                  37        207    10.9    15,424
Noi-oil/Gas Export                 18         93      4.9     5,676
Transmigration                      9         74      3.9     5,600
Tourism                             7         49      2.6     2,879
BASE EIRR DISTRIBUTION
10-202                           197       1,121    58.9    82,332
20-302                             70        384    20.2    27,064
30-40Z                             36        191    10.1    14,078
40-50_                             17         97      5.1     6,966
>-50Z                              25        120      6.3     8,634
PRIORITY RANKED BY KABUPATEN
1                                 58         359    18.9    26,756        25.0S
2                                  53        310    16.3    22,870        25.72
3                                  48        285    15.0    19,033        24.02
4                                  54        317    16.7    22,620        21.4Z
5                                  38        228    12.0    17,800        21.22
6                                  32        171      9.0    14,229       23.02
7                                  20         81      4^-     4,981       18.32
21-7                                42        152      8.     10,041       31.72
DATA AUDIT STATUS
Minor Change/None                 173        973    51.1    72,419        25.02
Major Change                      139        771    40.5    53.877        23.12
Uncertain                          33        160      8.4    12,034       24.22
PROVINCE
Aceh                               62        247    13.0    17,074       172
Sumatra Utara                      53        323    17.0    23,708       212
Sumatra Barat                      48        230    12.1    13,413       162
Jambi                              16        143      7.5    12,376      262
Bengkulu                           13         94      4.9     6,224      182
Lampung                            16        111      5.8     6,328      211
Java Barat                        120        575    30.2    42,742       352
Kalimantan Barat                   17        181      9.5    16,465      162
La  Standard economic planning cost, not the final engineering cost.



- 84 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1. Institutional Aspects
(a) List of Activities, Products, and Responsible Agencies/Organizations
for Kabupaten Road Upgrading Programs by Project Stages, GOI,
February 1992.
(b) Laws and Regulations Relating to Rural Roads, Project Management
Unit, IBRD Second Rural Roads Development Project, October 1991.
(c) Final Report on Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan Training Needs
Sample Survey and Analysis,-Project Management Unit, IBRD Second
Rural Roads Development Project, October 1991.
.d) Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan (KRMTP) 1992/93 - 1997/98,
Project Management Unit, IBRD Second Rural Roads Development Project,
November 1991.
2. PlanninalProgramming Aspects
(a) Technical Guidelines for Planning and Programming, Project Management
Unit, IBRD Second Rural Roads Development Project, July 1989.
(b) Planning Activities Under IBRD Rural Roads II, Methodology, Project
Management Unit, IBRD Second Rural Roads Development Project, July
1990.
(c) Guidelines for the Preparation of Kabupaten Road Maintenance
Programs, Project Management Unit, IBRD Second Rural Roads
Development Project, November 1991.
(d) Short List (P3) 1992/93 Major Works
Base List (P1) 1992/93 Maintenance Works
Project Management Unit, IBRD Second Rural Roads Development Project,
January 1992.
(e) Selected papers on expenditures needs on kabupaten roads:
- KR3 Maintenance Options, February 1992
- Planning Review and Audit Procedures, November 1991
- Poverty Issues, February 92,
Project Management Unit, IBRW Second Rural Roads Development Project



- 85 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2
3. Technical Aspects
(a) Technical guidelines for the preparation and implementation of
kabupaten road works and for the management of equipment,
GOI, 1991 and 1992.
(b) Special Study of Contractor Performance, USAID Rural Roads
Maintenance System Project, December 1990.
4. Environmental Aspects
(a) Forest Land Use, Forest Use Zonation, and Deforestation in Indonesia,
prepared for BAPEDAL by John Dick, EMDL Project, June 1991.
(b) Environmental Assessment for IBRD Third Kabupaten Roads Development
Project, Project Management Unit, IBRD Second Rural Roads Development
Project, November 1991.
(c) Selected papers on environmental issues including outline TORs for
environmental impact assessment of kabupaten road works, prepared for
IBRD by Douglas Martin, consultant, March 1992.
5. Terms of Reference
-    Central Technical Consultants, December 1991
-    Field Consultants for Implementation. November 1991
-   Training Consultants, May 1992



- 86 -
Chart .
-K '1  11;lt
- W"LL L
'1 I~s 'IHi
e~~~~~~~~r C-  Xi- -I         n
_~  _    I .  I~ . ij
I~~~~I ~  iI in! I   1  1X iI
_ I



- 87 -
Chart 2
HUa1 d'~-
*~~~~~~~ - -



TH-IRD KAIBUPATEN ROADS DEVELPHERT PROJEcT
Qrganization of the
Provincial Public Works Offices (DPUP)
HEAD OF DPUP
AMNISTRATION
L---- 
PERSNNEL       A           AFFAFAI
___, ~~~~~~~~-7-rT- --  
|    _    ,   l  ___    _ _                         ~~~~~~~~~~EOUIPMENT
PLANNING          IRRIGATION           ROADS            BUILDN                &
,   _   __                -          _~                         WSPPUES   -
PROG ROAD                                                      IRRIGATION
IRR1GATION        IRRIGATION        COSRCIN              REGIONAL          EQUIPMENT
PROGRAMME                                       STRUCTIO                 L & SUPPLIES
RIVERS|  BUILDINGS                                 F   ROADS
ROADS    I         IESBRIDGE.IEUIMN
PROGRAMME              CONSTRUCTIOli                    HOSIGQUIPMLEST
ISWAMPS                        __UINGSUPLIE
PROGRAMME         MAINTENANCE 1      MAINTENANCEIFA TA OWOSHP
F _    ____           DESIGN
DESIGN            & ROAD
_  __         ~~~INVENTORY
tOUIRCE MINISTER OF "OME AFFAIRS INSTRUCTION
No 14 OF 1986 DAtED 20 OCTOBER 1M86



INDONESIe
THIRD KAMUPATEN ROADS DKVELODI  PRJ=U
Organization of the
Kabupaten Public Works Offices (DPUK)
HEAD aO   DPUK
LEGAL                         FINANCE |ANAi
TOWN AND              EOIQUPMENT
ROADZS                                     SANITATION             REONL
EL"GLATIOS                                   PLANNIN              AND  lSUPPLIES
CONSTRUCTION              StLDINGS           WATER SUPPLY   |           P ANNINO l                 N
MAINTENANCE             HOUSING oS.T                             REGIONA PN                y O"oH
_                                  L~~~~~~~~~~NVIRONMENT                        .
DESIGN AND
INVENTORY                                                                                 SUPPLIES
SOURNCE  MTER OF HOME AFFAIRS INSTRtXTION
Ne. 14 ofM  DATED 20 OCTORER 1986



IBRD 23640R
9L. \THAILAND                  1xo                             11D                             lIP                            1W                                i 2                            1S
A h-  _                    > '>                                                                    |  unel                                PHILIPPINES                                           IN D O N ESIA
sauNei                                              ~~~~~~THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
MALAYSIA                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRUNEI ~
s | < MALAYSIA o*> tlRUNEn - / PROJECT DISTRICTS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
> _o > * *UAW IUM Ut /  .E MALAts!Aj  FROVINCE BOUNDARIES
2' INTERNATIOL  BOUNDARIES
S,    SULAWtSITt~~~~>sNGAH  2 OMlOt2  E /_o 
19 SULAWESI UARA                                           {     \    od /        \ )  !         g  /  L 1        (                                                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-' 9HAMAER
If
*                                  / ~~~~~~~~~KEPIJIAUNAN
k\ SULAWESI ENGGSAR                                                                                                         DERIRAR
D . DSM AKARTAEIAEANAM
IS. WA UARATIR
JW SUSATENGAB ARAT 
s4  JUAWAGGsAnU TIU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  > -     IO    X2    0    o5
. SUMATERK
D3.DI. ACEH
A.KALIMANTANI BARAT
IS. KAURNER TEND/AN
2i. KALIMARAN  TIMUR                                                                                BAU02M
Il .  SU LAW_  S I ,7UANA 
DI. DULAWES TENGGARA                                                                                                                     iS
D2. BALI                                                                                                                                     24              N7127O
2.  N TIAENDIGARA BADAT                                                                                                                         Kw"*                                                            S   E   SD   S   ST
24  NUDS TENGGARA TIMUR                                                                                                                                        MRo ia                                                    i     o5
12 56  MASSE AY                                                                                                                DM81                                                                                KIL.OMETERS
27. TIMRIA jTimER 
NTSI1                                                                                               iPIRIE                                                                       AUSTRALIA         ~
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yIl



